Skip to content University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign logo The iconic orange block letter I with the word ILLINOIS written next to it Office of the Registrar Menu Registration Registration Process Concurrent Enrollment Intercampus Registration Auditing Registration FAQ Courses & Grades Course Information Final Exams Check Your Grades Explanation of Grades Calculate Your GPA Academic Records Credit for State Seal of Biliteracy FERPA Changing Your Personal Information Preferred First Name Enrollment or Degree Verification Degree Audit Transfer Credit Transcripts Apostilles Academic Records FAQ Calendars Tuition & Fees Tuition Information Fee Information Tuition & Fee Rates Waivers & Exemptions Withdrawal Refunds Financial Aid Graduation Conferral Dates Commencement Diplomas Graduation FAQ Faculty & Staff Course Catalog & Scheduling Registration Final Exam Scheduling Grades Graduation FERPA Reporting & Data Access Calendars Policies Forms Transcripts The Office of the Registrar will issue official transcripts of a student’s academic record, including courses, grades, GPA, and degree upon request of the student. Transcripts can only be released directly to the student or to a person or entity designated by the student (a photo ID is required when picking up a transcript in person). Official transcripts are $8 per copy and must be paid for when ordered. Official Transcripts Link for Current Students Current or recent students who have an active Student Self-Service login and password can submit an online order for an official PDF or paper transcript using the Registration and Records tab in Student Self-Service. Link for Alumni and Former Students Note: Alumni and former students who attended 1982 to present have the option of transcripts in electronic or paper form. Alumni and former students who attended before 1982 only have the option of a transcript in paper form. Link to Check the Status of Your Online Order Note: If you do not need an official transcript, you may choose to print your academic history from Student Self-Service. This website is for Urbana-Champaign campus transcripts only. For University of Illinois at Springfield transcripts, refer to www.uis.edu, and for University of Illinois at Chicago transcripts, refer to www.uic.edu. Records for UIC College of Medicine and College of Nursing students reside at the University of Illinois at Chicago. (Student Self-Service is available for current students and former students who have retained their netID login and password, the Transcripts Unit does not provide former students with this information.) Don’t remember your UIN? Search for it here. Unofficial Transcripts Unofficial paper transcripts are only available in-person in the Records Service Center of the Office of the Registrar. The student must present photo identification and must pick up their own transcript. Transcripts cannot be faxed, mailed, or e-mailed. Summary of Transcript Services Services Explanation Transcript Fee FedEx Fee Mailed Transcripts Processed within 5 business days and mailed first-class. Allow 7 to 10 days for delivery to domestic addresses and 4 to 6 weeks to international addresses. Orders placed for 10 or more paper transcripts to a single address must be delivered using express delivery to provide for tracking. $8.00 per Transcript Not Applicable Electronic Transcripts Delivered within 1 calendar day of the order being processed. $8.00 per Transcript Not Applicable Pick Up* Ready for pick up from the Records Service Center within 2 business days after ordering. $8.00 per Transcript Not Applicable Unofficial Transcripts Only available for pick-up, in person, from the Records Service Center No charge Not Applicable Notarized Transcript for Apostille A notarized transcript is an official transcript that has been authenticated and notarized. Request one now! If an Apostille is required, please refer to Apostilles for further instructions. $8.00 per Transcript Not Applicable FedEx Express to a destination in the 48 continental U.S.** The transcript is processed within one business day, mailed via FedEx, and delivered in one to two business days. This service is only available if the recipient address can receive FedEx delivery (Note: FedEx cannot deliver to a P.O. Box). $8.00 per Transcript $30.00 FedEx Express to a destination in Alaska or Hawaii** The transcript is processed within one business day, mailed via FedEx, and delivered in one to two business days. This service is only available if the recipient address can receive FedEx delivery (Note: FedEx cannot deliver to a P.O. Box). $8.00 per Transcript $30.00 FedEx Express to a destination outside of the U.S.** The transcript is processed within one business day, mailed via FedEx, and delivered in 3-5 business days. This service is only available if the recipient address can receive FedEx delivery (Note: FedEx cannot deliver to a P.O. Box). $8.00 per Transcript $55.00 *Transcripts ordered for Pick Up will be destroyed with no refund if not picked up within 4 weeks. ** Requests for express shipping must be received by 11:00 a.m. CST for same-day processing. Transcripts mailed directly from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign are official. Orders addressed to the student will have an outside envelope marked “sealed envelopes enclosed” and contain individually sealed transcripts inside. Each transcript will be stamped “Issued to the Student in a Sealed Envelope” in red ink. Hold Transcript for Grades or Degree A request may be submitted to delay printing the transcript until after grades are posted or degrees for the current semester have been recorded on the transcript. However, if you are expecting a grade change, do not order your transcript until you are sure the grade has been changed. The Registrar will not hold transcripts for maintenance or grade changes. Transcript orders held for degrees are released approximately four (4) weeks after your conferral date. If the status of your degree in Academic History of Self Service indicates that the degree has been Awarded and is no longer Pending prior to the release date listed on the Academic Calendar, you may call the Transcripts Unit at 217-333-9778 and request that the Hold for Degree be removed and your transcript order processed. Mail-in and Fax Requests Common Application College Report Students applying to transfer out of the University to an institution that uses the Common Application, should verify first if the destination institution requires the College Report for transfers. If required, follow the College Report instructions to print and submit the report to the Records Service Center for completion. The report requires coordination with the Dean of Students Office, so allow up to 4 weeks for processing. Transcript Key Information For more information regarding the contents and coding on transcripts, download a detailed explanation: Students enrolled prior to Fall 1982 Students enrolled Fall 1982 through Summer 2018 Students enrolled Fall 2018 through Fall 2019 Students enrolled Spring 2020 through Fall 2020 Students enrolled Spring 2021 to Present Credentials Inc. Authorization The University has appointed Credentials Inc. to act on behalf of the University in matters concerning the ordering and processing of academic transcript orders and academic transcript data for the Institution. As an agent for the Institution as defined in the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 as Amended (FERPA), Credentials Inc. is subject to, and operates within the bounds of, the same information provisions of FERPA as staff of the Institution. Contact Us Records Service Center Transcript Unit University of Illinois 901 West Illinois Street, Suite 140 Urbana, IL 61801 Office hours: 8:30 – 12, 1 – 5 Monday through Friday Phone: 217-333-9778 Fax: 217-333-3100 Email: transcripts@illinois.edu Search for Search Contact Us Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information Office of the Registrar 901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801 © 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Web Privacy Notice About Cookies Back to top