Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Political Science Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Political Science College of Social Sciences and Public Policy Website: https://coss.fsu.edu/polisci/ Chair: Brad Gomez; Leroy Collins Eminent Scholar: C. Weissert; Leroy Collins Professor: Barrilleaux; Syde P. Deeb Eminent Scholar & Marian D. Irish Professor: W. Berry; Professors: Jackson, Souva, W. Weissert; Associate Professors: Beazer, Coleman, Driscoll, Ehrlich, Grosser, Kem, Pietryka, Rainey, Reenock; Assistant Professors: Ahler, Cunha, Duque, Haim, Hassell, Li, Matush, Ou, Whyman; Assistant In: Nagar; Teaching Faculty: Kile; Affiliated Faculty: F. Berry, Landau, Metcalf; Professors Emeriti: Atkins, Crew, Dye, Flanagan, Glick, Gray, Kim, Palmer, Scholz The political science major offers an undergraduate education in the liberal arts tradition, preparing the graduate for a variety of careers by emphasizing the acquisition of skills in communication and analysis and by encouraging independent thought, tolerance, and informed interest in current affairs. More specifically, the study of political science provides background for careers in government at the local, state, and national levels; in international organizations; political campaigns; interest groups and lobbying organizations; journalism; business; and the law. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in political science satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2060 or CGS 2100, or through other mechanisms as detailed in the relevant section of this General Bulletin. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Political Science & Government POS X041 POS XXXX or INR XXXX or CPO XXXX Requirements for a Major in Political Science A political science major consists of thirty semester hours in political science with a grade of “C–” or better in each course, with the following restrictions: At least twenty-one semester hours in courses numbered 3000 and above At least twenty-one semester hours in an assembled classroom (as distinguished from individual credit for honors, directed studies, and internships) At least fifteen semester hours in an assembled classroom at Florida State University (may include courses taken through the study abroad program). The political science program includes five subfields of study: American government (course prefix is POS), comparative politics (CPO), international relations (INR), public policy (PUP), and public administration (PAD). PAD courses are offered by the Askew School of Public Administration. ISS 2937 may count as a political science course if the instructor is a faculty member in political science. Majors must take at least three introductory courses, including POS 1041 and two additional courses chosen from: CPO 2002, INR 2002, PUP 3002, and PAD 3003. Note: CPO 2002, INR 2002, POS 1041, and PUP 3002 are prerequisites to most of the upper-level courses in their respective subfields. Majors also must take at least six semester hours in any three subfields. The introductory courses listed above can be counted toward this subfield requirement. Only those courses listed under the subfield headings below can be used toward that subfield (i.e. courses listed under the “Others” section, though having a course prefix of POS, do not count towards the American Government subfield). Majors may verify whether selected courses will count toward major and subfield requirements with the department’s Academic Coordinator. Note: Courses offered by other departments, even if they have the same prefix as approved political science courses listed below, cannot be counted towards major or minor requirements in political science. Contact the department’s Academic Coordinator if clarification is required. POS 3713, Understanding Political Science Research, is required of all majors. This course should be taken as early as possible in the student’s academic program, and no later than the first semester of junior year (prior to the completion of seventy-five credit hours). A student who has been admitted to the Political Science major at FSU and received more than two (2) grades below “C-” (D+, D, D-, F, U) in political science courses will not be permitted to graduate with a degree in the major. Political science majors are required to have a minor or second major and to meet the requirements stipulated by that department or program. Public administration is not permitted as a minor because classes in that area count toward the political science major. Honors in the Major The department offers a program of honors in the major to encourage qualified juniors and seniors to undertake independent and original research as part of the undergraduate experience. For requirements and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Internships An optional internship in political science is designed to allow students to earn up to six semester hours of credit in political science while also garnering practical experience in government and politics. The prerequisites for internship are: completion of at least sixty semester hours; completion of fifteen semester hours in political science with a “C–” or better, including POS 3713; an overall grade point average of 3.0 or a GPA of 3.0 in political science courses; and permission from the department. Internship credits taken through the Askew School of Public Administration, International Affairs, or Interdisciplinary Social Sciences cannot be counted toward political science major or minor requirements. For complete details, interested students should contact the department. The deadline to apply for internship credit through the department is the third day of classes of the semester a student will intern. The department does not award retroactive credit for completed internships under any circumstances. Requirements for a Minor in Political Science Students majoring in other departments or programs may minor in political science with fifteen semester hours of political science courses with grades of “C–” or better. A maximum of six semester hours of PAD and/or PHM prefixes combined may be counted toward the minor. At least nine semester hours must be at the 3000 level or above, and at least six of those must be earned at Florida State University. Definition of Prefixes CPO—Comparative Politics IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies INR—International Relations PHM—Philosophy of Man and Society POS—Political Science POT—Political Theory PUP—Public Policy Undergraduate Courses American Government POS 1041. American Government: National (3). This course investigates how the national government is structured and how the American political system operates. Covers the philosophical and constitutional foundations of American government, the branches of the national government, the mechanisms by which citizens are connected to their government, and the policy outputs of government. POS 3122. State Politics (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course focuses on government and politics in the American states. Looks at the governor, the legislature, and the courts; the history of federalism; and policies, practices, and social institutions that affect state government. Includes a study of state policies in such areas as welfare, education, crime, and the environment. POS 3142. Urban Politics (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course examines the structure and operation of city governments and the political forces that drive decision making. Includes an examination of different forms of local government and the role of political parties, interest groups, and individuals. Examines the varying social and economic factors affecting U.S. cities. POS 3182. Florida Government (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course covers the history and current organization of Florida government—the executive, legislative, and judicial branches. Considers such topics as the Florida Constitution, how Florida compares to other state governments, and the effects of interests outside state government. POS 3204. Public Opinion and Electoral Behavior (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course explores political attitudes and behavior. It examines such topics as the sources of political knowledge; how political attitudes are formed and changed; how public opinion is measured; and why people vote the way they do. POS 3258. Understanding Politics Through Film (3). This course explores how issues about politics and society, both historical and current, are expressed through the medium of film. The course focuses on some of the ideas about politics that have found their expression through cinema. These include the core idea dealt with by political theorists for centuries of whether people are fundamentally good or evil, the problem of race relations and the civil rights movement in American politics, political leadership, the strengths and weakness of the American constitutional system, political crisis and war and the war on terrorism. POS 3263. Political Elites and Representation (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course considers the major areas related to representation in American government: how public officials are elected, the nature of their interactions with citizens, how policy is made at the national level, and the level of popular control. POS 3443. Political Parties and Campaigning (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course describes, explains, and evaluates the structure, activities, and functions of political parties in the United States. Examines party organization and leadership, nominations and elections, the American electorate, and political campaigning. POS 3691. Law and Society (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course surveys the American legal system, including the role of lawyers; sources and types of law; and courts, legislatures, executive agencies, and other law-making institutions. Also links law and legal behavior to the social, economic, and political features of modern society. (Required for students in the law and society program.) POS 3931r. Special Topics in Government (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. Varies with the instructor and semester. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. POS 4070. Race, Ethnicity, and Politics (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course examines how race and ethnicity are interwoven in American politics by viewing the role of African-American, Latino, and Asian-American voters, candidates, and public officials, and looking at the political attitudes of these groups. POS 4206. Political Psychology (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course examines the psychological origins of citizens’ political beliefs and actions, while providing an overview of the theories and methods used in the field of political psychology. Topics cover information processing, emotion, attribution, tolerance, stereotyping, prejudice, and political communication. POS 4235. Media and Politics (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course examines the role of the news media, both print and electronic, in shaping public opinion and voter behavior. POS 4275. Political Campaigns (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course examines the planning and administration of electoral campaigns for students interested in campaign participation as volunteers or professionals. POS 4284. Courts, Law, and Politics (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course surveys the judicial system and its links to politics in the United States. Covers the U.S. Supreme Court, other federal courts, and state and local courts. Topics include legal education and law careers, role of lawyers in court, selection of judges, how civil and criminal cases get to and through the courts, plea bargaining, judicial decision-making, and court-made public policy. POS 4413. The American Presidency (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course focuses on the evolution and power of the American presidency and the relations of the President with the branches of government. Also offered by the School of Public Administration and Policy. POS 4424. Legislative Systems (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course studies Congress and the behavior of its members. Includes the recruitment and election of members of Congress, the functioning of party leaders and congressional committees, the influences on congressional policy-making, and the sources of stability and change in Congress. POS 4606. The Supreme Court in American Politics (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course reviews the political role of the Supreme Court with particular attention to case law concerning judicial review, commerce power, federalism, and presidential and legislative power. POS 4624. The Supreme Court, Civil Liberties, and Civil Rights (3). Prerequisite: POS 1041 or instructor permission. This course reviews recent interpretations of the Bill of Rights and 14th Amendment case law with special attention to freedom of expression, equal protection, and criminal due process rights. Comparative Politics CPO 2002. Introduction to Comparative Government and Politics (3). This course addresses government institutions and current political parties throughout the world, as well as theories that explain similarities and differences among countries. Topics may include electoral systems, parliamentary systems, causes of political change, democratization, political culture, ideologies, and economic and social policy. Examples are drawn from Western democracies and developing countries. CPO 3034. Politics of Developing Areas (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines how economic and social conditions affect politics and government in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and/or the Middle East. Typical topics include theories of economic development, cultural influences on politics, religious and ethnic conflict, changing roles of women in the developing world, foreign aid, causes and consequences of poverty, causes of revolution, environmental policies, military regimes, and corruption. CPO 3055. Authoritarian Regimes (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines various aspects of the politics of authoritarian regimes: political institutions in dictatorships, the relationship between dictatorship and economic development, the role of elections and electoral fraud, the impact of international election monitoring, public support for dictatorship, the impact of traditional and social media, censorship, the extent to which authoritarian regimes are accountable to the public, and power struggles among authoritarian elites. CPO 3101. European Union (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course covers the historical development, political institutions, and philosophical underpinnings of the European Union. Topics include federalism, different notions of sovereignty, contemporary decision-making in the EU, assessments of democratic institutions in Europe, and prominent points of debate, such as monetary union, trade policies, environmental policies, and enlargement policies. CPO 3103. Comparative Government and Politics: Western Europe (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course focuses on political behavior and institutions in Britain, Germany, France, and other European countries and transnational developments in Europe, such as the postindustrial society phenomenon, terrorism, Eurocommunism, and European federation. CPO 3123. Comparative Government and Politics: Great Britain (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines the political and governmental system of Great Britain within a comparative framework. Comparison and contrast with the United States emphasized. CPO 3303. Politics of Latin America (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor consent. This course examines Latin American politics after the mid-20th century. Examines the historical, economic, and international contexts in which Latin American political systems function, and identifies challenges to democracy and development. The specific Latin American countries covered will vary. CPO 3403. Comparative Government and Politics: The Middle East (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course discusses the political systems of the Middle East and their social, economic, and cultural foundations. CPO 3520. Emerging Democracies in Northeast Asia: Korea, Taiwan, Japan (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course is an introduction to politics in Korea, Taiwan, and Japan. Looks at 20th century political developments to better understand contemporary events in these countries. Deals with political issues such as electoral systems, party systems, “economic miracles,” the process of democratization, the potential future role of these countries in world affairs, North Korean nuclear development, and unification of the Korean Peninsula. CPO 3541. Politics of China (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course is an introduction to the politics of the People’s Republic of China, its political history and contemporary organization. Covers such topics as Chinese communism, the Cultural Revolution, the post-Mao era, the two Chinas, and popular movements and reform. Also examines current issues. CPO 3553. Politics of Japan (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines Japanese society and culture, political behavior, and political institutions since World War II. Emphasis is placed on political transformation since the early 1990s. CPO 3615. Post-Soviet Politics (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines developments in the so-called “transition countries” of Eastern Europe and Eurasia, drawing on readings to introduce students to the major debates on economic and political reform in the region. CPO 3703. Comparative Democratic Institutions (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines political institutions (including executive, legislative, and judicial, as well as electoral systems), and evaluates their importance and role in democratic societies. CPO 3743. States and Markets (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course analyzes the multifaceted ways in which political and economic spheres interrelate. Students are exposed to relevant debates on democracy and growth, the state’s role in the economy, corruption, natural resources, and redistribution. CPO 3930r. Special Topics in Comparative Government and Politics (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. Topics vary with the instructor and semester. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. CPO 4057. Political Violence (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course introduces the student to scholarly writing on violent political conflict. Reviews theories of guerilla struggle and counter-insurgency, as well as the philosophy of non-violent direct action and several theories of conflict resolution. Course also explores the human costs of political violence. CPO 4504. Institutional Approaches to Democracies and Dictatorships (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines questions about democracy and dictatorship from an institutional perspective. What is democracy and how is it measured, and how does regime affect the welfare of citizens? An emphasis is on the variety of institutional arrangements found in dictatorships. International Relations INR 2002. Introduction to International Relations (3). This course introduces students to the study of international relations. Major topics include the different actors that participate in international relations and the different goals they pursue, the processes of conflict and cooperation, and recent trends in international politics. INR 3004. Geography, History, and International Relations (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course introduces students to the impact of geography and history on international relations and considers the ways these forces influence national and international processes. Topics include the role of geography in international economics and trade, regional integration, geopolitics, territorial and resource disputes, and how decision-makers learn from history. INR 3084. Terror and Politics (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course focuses on terrorist organizations and government responses to them. INR 3502. International Organization (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course covers the role of global and regional international organizations in contemporary world politics. Special emphasis is placed on the United Nations system, including its structure, activities, influence, and role in world integration. INR 3603. Theories of International Relations (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course provides a more detailed examination of the process of international relations than the introductory course. Topics include the major approaches to foreign policy decision making, prominent explanations of international conflict, and process of international economics. INR 3933r. Special Topics in International Relations (3). Prerequisites: INR 2002 or instructor permission. Topics vary with the instructor and semester. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. INR 4011. Political Responses to Economic Globalization (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002. This course examines economic globalization: what it is, who is harmed and helped by it, how countries and citizens respond to it, and what the future might hold. This course focuses heavily on economic issues but assumes no background in the subject. INR 4075. International Human Rights (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course introduces the student to the philosophical and legal foundations of the international human rights regime and explores the developments of norms and institutions with special emphasis on the post-World War II era. INR 4078. Confronting Human Rights Violations (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course investigates various means of confronting massive human rights violations. It compares the recent phenomena of truth commissions and pardons to the more traditional, legalistic approach of criminal prosecution. Moral issues involved in each approach and how each serves society are explored. Specific truth commission cases are studied. INR 4083. International Conflict (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines historical patterns in warfare and considers the conditions that influence war and peace between nation-states. Topics include causes of war, outcomes and aftermath of war, and approaches to peace. INR 4102. American Foreign Policy (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course focuses on the role of the U.S. President, State Department, Congress, Central Intelligence Agency, and Defense Department in making foreign policy. Examines the decision-making process and domestic sources of foreign policy, such as the electorate, public opinion, interest groups, and the media. Looks at the past and the future of American foreign policy with an emphasis on current issues. INR 4124. Statecraft (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002. This course introduces students to the field of security studies. Provides an introduction to the competing visions of the place of the U.S. in the world, the theoretical arguments behind each approach, and how the various perspectives differ on central policy issues. INR 4244. Studies in International Politics: Latin America (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines Latin America in the international political system, with emphasis on the United States and Latin America. INR 4274. Studies in International Politics: The Middle East (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course discusses developments in the international politics of the Middle East and North Africa; historical background to Middle Eastern conflicts, wars, and crises with a focus on the Arab-Israeli conflict. INR 4334. American Defense Policy (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course looks into the evolution and organization of American defense policy as well as an assessment of its current capabilities. INR 4702. Political Economy of International Relations (3). Prerequisite: INR 2002 or instructor permission. This course examines the interaction between politics and economics in international relations. Topics covered include international trade, the global monetary system, multinational corporations, regional integration, and economic development. Public Policy PUP 3002. Introduction to Public Policy (3). This course is an introduction to the development of public policy in the United States. Covers main policy areas including housing, education, the economy, homeland security, etc. PUP 4008. Public Policy Analysis (3). Prerequisite: PUP 3002. This course introduces students to the evaluation and analysis of public policy, using the political economy approach. PUP 4024. Interest Groups, Social Movements, and Public Policy (3). Prerequisite: PUP 3002 or instructor permission. This course examines the varied effectiveness of interest groups and movements on public policy formation, with emphasis on resources, organizational structure, ideology, strategies, and tactics. PUP 4034. Organizations and Public Policy (3). Prerequisite: PUP 3002. This course is concerned with the accountability and performance of bureaucracies and their implications for democracy, examining the role of organizations and bureaucracies in public policy, focusing on factors such as decision-making activities, rationality, motivation, and conflict within and among organizations. PUP 4203. Environmental Politics and Policy (3). Prerequisite: PUP 3002 or instructor permission. This course focuses on the actions taken by government to protect and improve environmental quality in the United States. It includes such topics as the underlying scientific principles, the major actors in policy making, existing legislation, and future challenges. Background in science is not necessary. PUP 4604. Health Services Organization and Policy (3). This course examines the development of health policy and its practice in American health organizations. Topics include costs, prices, and expenditures, insurance, programs (Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP, and long-term care), and reforms in the American system. PUP 4931r. Special Topics in Public Policy (3). Prerequisite: PUP 3002 or instructor permission. This course studies policy alternatives and the policy-making process on a specific contemporary policy question in America, e.g., science research and development, energy, regulation, taxes, environment. Varies with the instructor and semester. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. Political Theory PHM 3331r. Modern Political Thought (3). This course focuses on major political ideas of the modern world emphasized through a study of selected political theorists such as Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Hume, Burke, Hegel, Marx, Engels, Bentham, Mill, Jefferson, Madison, Lenin, and Mussolini. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. PHM 4340r. Contemporary Political Thought (3). This course is an exploration of a set of issues, a trend, or a school of thought in contemporary political philosophy. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. Others POS 3713. Understanding Political Science Research (3). Prerequisite: CPO 2002 or INR 2002 or POS 1041 or PUP 3002 or instructor permission. This course consists of doing political science as opposed to reading it. Includes introductory examinations of survey research, computer applications, data analysis, and philosophy of science. Required for all political science majors. POS 3930r. Advanced Undergraduate Seminar (3). Prerequisite: At least twelve semester hours of political science or instructor permission. This course is a seminar on topics of major theoretical or policy relevance to political scientists. Opportunity for discussion and instructor interaction. Topic varies. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. POS 3949r. Experiential Learning (0). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This is a non-credit experiential learning course, which offers students an opportunity to gain “real world” on-the-job experience related to a specific academic field of study. Students must register for this course through the FSU Career Center. POS 4715. Politics and the Theory of Games (3). Prerequisites: CPO 2002 or INR 2002 or POS 1041 and completion of the mathematics liberal studies requirements. This course discusses elementary theories of individual and group decision–making that are used to analyze various political phenomena such as the arms race, legislative politics, majority rule in democracies, voting and elections, and coalition governments. POS 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). Prerequisite: At least twelve semester hours of political science or instructor permission. This course involves some combination of research, reading, writing, field study, other scholarly activities, and evaluation. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. POS 4935r. Honors Work (1–6). When offered as a seminar, selected topics are used to develop outstanding scholarship; also offered for individual students engaged in senior honors thesis. Contact the department for details on prerequisites and requirements. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. POS 4941r. Internship (1–6). Prerequisites: Completion of at least sixty semester hours, completion of fifteen semester hours in political science (including POS 3713) with a grade of “C–” or better, a 3.0 GPA average or a 3.0 GPA in political science courses, and departmental permission. For complete details interested students should contact the department. IDS 2390. Public Opinion and American Democracy (3). In this course, students explore the factors that structure individual’s attitudes towards politics and how the distribution of public opinion on major issues affects government. More specifically, the course has been designed to provide students with a critical examination of the psychology of political attitude formation, the opportunity to gather and analyze - both independently and as a group - data about citizens’ political beliefs, and an empirical evaluation of government responsiveness toward citizens’ demands. IDS 2432. Political Participation in the 21st Century: From Indigenous Communities to On-line Democracy (3). This course centers around an ancient political question: how can we live together? In the 21st century new forms of participation are developing which should make us question the traditional political paradigms. The course addresses these problems by examining evidence from different contexts and by adopting a multidisciplinary approach. Graduate Courses Comparative Politics CPO 5091. Core Seminar in Comparative Government and Politics (3). CPO 5127. Seminar in Comparative Government and Politics: Great Britain (3). CPO 5407. Seminar in Comparative Government and Politics: The Middle East (3). CPO 5740. Comparative Political Economy (3). CPO 5934r. Selected Topics (3). International Relations INR 5007. Seminar in International Relations: International Politics (3). INR 5036. International Political Economy (3). INR 5088. International Conflict (3). INR 5507. International Organizations (3). INR 5934r. Selected Topics (3). American Government POS 5036r. Seminar in American Government and Public Policy: Selected Topics (3). POS 5045. Seminar in American Government and Public Policy: National Government (3). POS 5127. State Government and Politics (3). POS 5208r. Selected Topics in Political Behavior (3). POS 5227. The Executive (3). POS 5237. Seminar in American Government and Public Policy: Public Opinion (3). POS 5277. Electoral Politics (3). POS 5427. Legislative Politics (3). POS 5698r. Selected Topics (3). Methods of Political Analysis POS 5723r. Game Theory (3). POS 5727r. Advanced Game Theory (3). POS 5736r. Research Design (3). POS 5737r. Political Science Data Analysis (3). POS 5744. Fundamentals of Political Research (3). POS 5746r. Quantitative Analysis in Political Science (3). POS 5747r. Advanced Quantitative Analysis in Political Science (3). Public Policy PUP 5005. Public Policy: Institutions and Processes (3). PUP 5006. Policy Implementation and Evaluation (3). PUP 5007. Models of Public Policy-Making (3). PUP 5015. Comparative Public Policy (3). PUP 5045. Applied Policy Analysis (3). PUP 5607. Politics of Health Policy (3). PUP 5932r. Selected Topics (3). Other POS 5909r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). POS 5915. Political Science Research Practicum (3). POS 5946r. Teaching Political Science at the College Level (3). POS 6930r. Profession of Political Science (0–6). (S/U grade only.) Applied American Politics and Policy POS 5096. Political Fund-raising (3). POS 5203. Fundamentals of Political Management (3). POS 5274. The Campaign Process (3). POS 5276. Political Communication and Message Development (3). POS 5335. Political Research (3). POS 5465. Lobbying (3). POS 5945r. Professional Practicum/Internship (3–12). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright