Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Current Records Home Current Records Forms Helpful Links Current Records Graduation Appeals Certification Transcripts Status and Retention Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Drop/Add Excess Credit Hours Excess Credit Hours FAQ FERPA Employee Fee Waivers General Bulletin Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Services Forms Student Forms The division of Current Records oversees a variety of administrative functions, including registration, drop/add tasks, grade processing, academic-status control, enrollment cancellations, and posting permanent academic records. The categories below will assist you in finding the right form for your specific need. Grades Grade-related functions include making grade changes, handling exceptions to credit hours, changing student academic-status, grade rosters, granting academic reinstatements for dismissed students, and preparing appeal cases for the University Appeals Committee's consideration. Use the following forms or consult the listed web documents to initiate grade-related changes. Undergraduate S/U Grade Request Form Permit to Change Course to S/U via Student Central Undergraduate S/U Grade Request Form as a PDF For more information see Grading System section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Graduate S/U Grade Request Form Graduate S/U Grade Request Form as a PDF For more information see Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Course Option section of the Graduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Incomplete Grade Agreement Form Incomplete Grade Agreement Form as a PDF For more information see Grading System section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Request to Modify Course Credit for an Individual Student Request to Modify Course Credit for an Individual Student as a PDF For more information see Course/Credit Modification section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Appeals Extension of Time for Clearing Incomplete Grade Extension of Time for Clearing Incomplete Grade as a PDF For more information see Grading System section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Appeal to Reinstate Schedule Cancelled for Nonpayment of Tuition Appeal to Reinstate Schedule Cancelled for Nonpayment of Tuition as a PDF For more information see Reinstatement of Student Schedules Canceled for Non-Payment of Tuition and Fees section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Drop/Add Tuition Refund Appeal Form The Drop/Add Tuition Refund Appeal Form is online and accessible after logging in to Student Central. For more information see Drop/Add Tuition Refund Appeal section of Current Records - Appeals. Excess Credit Hours Appeal Form Excess Credit Hours Appeal Form as a PDF For more information see Excess Credit Hours section of Current Records. Third Repeat Course Surcharge Refund Appeal Form Third Repeat Course Surcharge Refund Appeal Form as a PDF For more information see Third Repeat Course Surcharge Refund Appeal section of Current Records - Appeals. University Refund Committee Petition Form University Refund Committee Petition Form as a PDF For more information see University Refund Committee Petition section of Current Records - Appeals. Transcript Requests Transcript Request Form as a PDF For more information see Transcripts section of Current Records. Catalog Year Change Request to Change Catalog Year For more information see Student Catalog Year section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations and Procedures. Major Changes Request to Change Undergraduate Major as a PDF Request to Change Graduate Major as a PDF Request to Change Certificate as a PDF Request to Substitute Senior Institution Requirement as PDF For more information see Declaring or Changing Majors section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Advising/Academic Support Services. Campus Change Request to Change Campus Location as a PDF More information and instructions are on the form. NOTE: Students interested in classes at Florida State University's Republic of Panama campus should contact Ms. Alexandra Anyfanti at aanyfanti@fsu.edu. Transient Student (Including TCC Students) Application Visit https://www.floridashines.org/succeed-in-college/take-a-course-at-another-school# If you are an FSU student who wants to attend a private/out-of-state school, please fill out the Transient Student Form. Transient Student Form as a PDF If you are a student from a private/out-of-state school, visit http://admissions.fsu.edu/transient/ to download the transient student form as a PDF. FAMU/FSU Coop Program Registration FAMU/FSU Co-op Program Registration form as a PDF For more information see Services section of Current Records. Undergrad Request to Take Grad Level Courses Undergraduate Request to Take Graduate Courses as a PDF For more information see Permission to Register for Graduate Courses section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations. Graduate Transfer Credit Request for Evaluation and Posting of Graduate Transfer Credit as a PDF Internal Credit Transfer Request for Evaluation and Posting of Internal Credit Transfer as a PDF Admission to Candidacy Admission to Candidacy as a PDF State Employee Tuition Waiver State Employee Tuition Waiver Form (non-FSU Employees) as a PDF FSU Employee Tuition Scholarship Fund FSU Employee Tuition Scholarship Form (FSU Employees Only) as a PDF Auditor Seating Privileges Auditor Seating Registration Form as a PDF For more information see Auditor Seating section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter Academic Regulations. Certification Request Certification Request Form as a PDF For more information see Certification section of Current Records. Request to Release Student Information Request to Release Information as a PDF For more information see Request to Release Information section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter University Notices. Change Your Legal Name of Record To change your official, legal name of record with the university, please email one form of documentation to the Office of the University Registrar at registrar@fsu.edu. Acceptable forms of documentation include driver licenses, passports, and court orders. The name change will be processed within one business day, and it will be reflected on all future official FSU documents, including certifications, transcripts, and diplomas. Note: We cannot accept marriage certificates unless the document specifically indicates that your name has legally changed. Update Your Address Instructions how to change your address are available at sc.my.fsu.edu/students/how/change-your-address. Request to Prevent Publication of Directory Information Request to Prevent Release or Publication of Directory Information as a PDF For more information see Request to Prevent Release or Publication of Directory Information section of the Undergraduate Bulletin chapter University Notices. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright