Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Student and Alumni Services Transcript and Verification Services Section Menu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Transcripts Your transcript is the official record of courses, grades, concentration, and degree earned at Princeton. Current and former students may request a paper copy of the transcript at any time. Current students and former students from the Class of 1972 and following may also request an electronic transcript that is delivered within minutes. An official transcript includes a Legend that explains grading symbols and course of study information. Instructions Active Princeton Students Log in to TigerHub to submit your request. Alumni and Former Students (Graduated 2014 - today) Request a TigerNet ID, if you do not have one. Log in to TigerHub to submit your request. If you prefer to use our PDF form, follow the instructions below. Alumni and Former Students (prior to 2014) Download and print the Transcript Request PDF Form. Mail or fax it to the Registrar's Office using the address on the form. Can’t log in or access the form? Mail or fax a written request, including your name, class year, signature, and the address to which your transcript should be sent. Office of the Registrar 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Fax: 609-258-6328 Enrollment and Degree Verification Students may need to verify Princeton enrollment or degree information for medical or legal associations, insurance companies, employers, or other entities. The Office of the Registrar provides this information upon request. The Enrollment Verification includes Princeton enrollment history, department (major field of study), date of degree or expected graduation date, and degree awarded. Instructions Active Princeton Students Log in to TigerHub. Select “Request Proof of Enrollment” and follow the instructions. Princeton Alumni and Former Students Contact the Office of the Registrar via phone, fax, or email. Provide your complete name as it was when you attended Princeton, your class year, and the name and address to which the verification should be mailed. Include any forms that need to be completed, if applicable. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility