Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Aerospace Studies Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Aerospace Studies Air Force ROTC College of Arts and Sciences Website: https://airforcerotc.fsu.edu/ Professor: Colonel Rodney Singleton The Department of Aerospace Studies provides pre-commissioning education for qualified students who desire to serve on active duty as commissioned officers in the United States Air Force. The department offers pre-commissioning education programs which vary in length from three to four years. The programs consist of academic courses, leadership laboratories, physical fitness training, and a field training experience which supplement students’ primary courses of study. Additionally, students have the opportunity to participate in professional development training during the summer at various locations throughout the world. Upon successful completion of the program, students will commission as Second Lieutenants in the United States Air Force. The Aerospace Studies curriculum is divided into two phases: (1) the General Military Course (GMC); and (2) the Professional Officer Course (POC). Entry into the POC is done on a competitive basis. To obtain specific information, please e-mail the Department of Aerospace Studies at det145@us.af.mil, visit us at Florida State University, 212 Harpe-Johnson Hall, Tallahassee, FL 32306-4270, call (850) 644-3461, or view our Web page at https://airforcerotc.fsu.edu/. Note: Students not currently enrolled in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) program must have the permission of the department chairman prior to enrolling in any AFR course. Class enrollment size is limited, and priority will be given to FSU, FAMU, TCC, and ERAU students seeking a commission in the Air Force and needing AFR courses. Non-AFROTC program students are not eligible for scholarships, incentive pay, or stipends as a result of enrollment in AFROTC program courses. General Military Course This program of instruction is open to any student and consists of the AFR 1101, AFR 1102, AFR 2130, and AFR 2140 courses in the AFROTC program. These courses deal with the Air Force structure and the development of air power. They strengthen interest in becoming a professional Air Force officer, develop knowledge of world military forces, and enable the student to understand how the United States Air Force supports national objectives and policies. Class enrollment size is limited, and priority will be given to FSU, FAMU, TCC, and ERAU students enrolled in the AFROTC program. Professional Officer Course Entry into the POC courses is done on a competitive basis and consists of the AFR 3201, AFR 3202, AFR 4211, and AFR 4212 courses. The criteria for entry/selection into the POC courses are listed below. Completion of the POC is required by all students who seek a commission through AFROTC. These courses are designed to prepare college students to serve as active duty Air Force officers upon graduation and commissioning. The curriculum stresses national security in contemporary American society, leadership, management, and professionalism. Special emphasis is placed on developing the cadet’s communication skills. Students not currently enrolled in the AFROTC program must have permission of the department chairperson prior to enrolling in these courses. Class enrollment size is limited, and priority is given to those FSU, FAMU, and ERAU students enrolled in the AFROTC program. Required Criteria for Admission into the POC Pass a military physical examination Pass a physical fitness test Pass height/weight standards Have a 2.5 cumulative GPA or higher for undergraduates or a 3.0 cumulative GPA or higher for graduate students Compete favorably with students enrolled in AFROTC programs throughout the nation Sign a contract obligating the student to military service upon completion of the AFROTC program. Note: Call the Department of Aerospace Studies (850) 644-3461 for specific requirements. Leadership Laboratory Leadership Laboratory (LLab) is required for members of the AFROTC program. LLab is the formalized phase of leadership training conducted by the students. Students in the POC plan and conduct all activities associated with LLab, providing these students the opportunity to develop fundamental leadership and management skills. For students in the GMC, LLab focuses on the topics of Air Force customs and courtesies, health and physical fitness, and drill and ceremonies. All uniforms and equipment required for cadet activities are furnished. Leadership Laboratory is graded as a pass/fail course. Students must attend at least 80% of the class sessions in addition to 80% of the Physical Training sessions to receive a passing grade. Physical Training All students enrolled in the AFROTC program will participate in Physical Training (PT) at least three days per week (for a total of no more than three hours per week). PT will consist of various forms of exercise, to include running, calisthenics, plyometrics, sports, etc. A Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DoDMERB) physical or sports physical is required prior to participation. Monetary Allowances All students selected for entry into the POC will receive a monthly, tax-exempt stipend ranging from $300.00–$500.00. AFROTC College Scholarship Programs The opportunity to earn a scholarship is possible, but not guaranteed. Scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis. Go to https://www.afrotc.com/ for current information or contact the Department of Aerospace Studies at (850) 644-3461. Field Training Students are required to attend a field training course before they may formally enroll in the POC. Field training is designed to evaluate military leadership and discipline, determine students’ potential for entry into the POC, and stratify students among their peers. All uniforms and equipment required for field training are furnished. Officer Commissions Upon graduation from the University, students who complete the POC are commissioned as Second Lieutenants in the United States Air Force. As graduates they incur a minimum active duty service commitment of four years. Graduates chosen for entry into select Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC) (e.g. pilots, combat systems officers, etc.) will incur additional years of active duty service commitment. For more information on active duty service commitments, contact the Department of Aerospace Studies at (850) 644-3461. Minor A minor in aerospace studies is offered and may be selected by the student with the approval of the major department and the Department of Aerospace Studies. Requirement for a minor is twelve semester hours in aerospace studies courses. Oral Communications Competency Florida State University requires students to demonstrate competency in oral communications prior to graduation. Students who meet the specific criteria below may be awarded the competency through AFR courses. Student must earn a “C–” or better in each of the following courses: AFR 1101, AFR 1102, and AFR 2130. Student must earn a “C–” or better on the verbal presentation portion of the three AFR courses listed above. Apply for oral communications competency credit through the Department of Aerospace Studies. Students must apply for credit prior to completion of the last of the three required courses listed above. Students should be advised that application alone does not guarantee credit toward the completion of the oral communication competency requirement will be awarded. All applications must be reviewed, and if all guidelines have been met, the University will be notified the requirement for competency has been met. Special Activities Special activities provide for the development of teamwork and esprit-de-corps. Included are the Arnold Air Society, a national honorary organization, and Silver Wings, a community service oriented organization open to all students. Awards and Decorations Awards and decorations, made available by national organizations, Florida State University, and local/national military organizations, are presented to both GMC and POC cadets each year. These plaques, trophies, medals, and ribbons symbolize superior achievement in AFROTC and other University academic courses and in outstanding campus and cadet corps leadership. Definition of Prefix AFR—Aerospace Studies Undergraduate Courses Note: All courses have a minimum 80% attendance requirement to receive a passing score. Failure to meet the attendance requirement will result in an overall failing grade for the course. AFR 1101. Foundations of the Air Force I (1). This survey course briefly covers topics relating to the Air Force and defense. It focuses on the structure and mission of Air Force organizations, officership and professionalism. Additionally, the course is a good introduction into the use of communication skills. AFR 1102. Foundations of the Air Force II (1). This course is a continuation of AFR 1101. AFR 2130. The Evolution of Aerospace Studies I (1). This course is a survey course concerned with the beginnings of manned flight and the development of aerospace power in the United States, including the employment of air power in WWI, WWII, Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War and the peaceful employment of U.S. air power in civic actions, scientific missions and support of space exploration. AFR 2140. Evolution of Aerospace Studies II (1). This course is a continuation of AFR 2130. AFR 2233L. AFROTC Leadership Lab (0). (S/U grade only.) This course is a weekly laboratory that touches on the topics of Air Force customs and courtesies, health and physical fitness, drill and ceremonies. It also provides the opportunity to develop fundamental management skills while planning and conducting cadet activities. AFR 3201. Leadership Studies I (3). Prerequisite: AFR 2140. This course is a study in the anatomy of leadership, the need for quality and management leadership, the role of discipline in leadership situations and the variables affecting leadership. Case studies are used to examine Air Force leadership and management situations as a means of demonstrating and exercising practical application of the concepts. Students deal with actual problems and complete projects associated with planning and managing the Leadership Laboratory. AFR 3202. Leadership Studies II (3). This course is a continuation of AFR 3201. AFR 4211. National Security Studies and Preparation for Active Duty I (3). Prerequisite: AFR 3202. This course examines the role of the professional military leader in a democratic society; societal attitudes toward the armed forces; the requisites for maintaining adequate national defense structure; the impact of technological and international developments on strategic preparedness and the overall policy-making process; and military law. In addition, students study topics that prepare them for their first active-duty assignment as an officer in the Air Force. AFR 4212. National Security Studies and Preparation for Active Duty II (3). Prerequisite: AFR 4211. This course is a continuation of AFR 4211. Note: If stated prerequisites are not met, permission of the professor of aerospace studies is prerequisite to all courses. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright