Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Office of the Registrar Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Registrar Texas One Stop Contact Search Search Search Search Faculty & Staff Expand Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Class Rosters CLIPs Course Schedule Update FERPA and Privacy Final Exams Grade Reporting Prerequisite Check Room Scheduling Standards Student documents online Training Using Waitlists Course Schedules Expand Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Spring 2022 Course Schedule Archive Catalogs Expand General Information Undergraduate Graduate Law School Medical School Calendars Expand 2021-2022 Long Session Upcoming Calendars Academic Calendar Archive Services Expand About Expand How to contact us Administration Athletic Eligibility Course Schedule Production Certification Degree Audit Diploma Services Document Imaging Catalogs, Course Inventory, and Credentials (Official Publications) Records Registration Room & Exam Scheduling Training Transcripts Students, please visit the Texas One Stop website for assistance. For all other Registrar-related questions, please contact us. We're here to help. Connect to Texas One Stop Home alt="students on lawn overlooking capitol mall" Helping the campus do awesome things! It is our privilege to serve and support you. Course Schedule The Course Schedule is published before advising and registration begin for each semester and summer session. It lists each class being offered, its time, location, instructor (if available), and its unique number—which students must know in order to register. The course schedule also lets you know when to register and pay tuition. It is updated with the latest changes, and shows if seats are available in each class. Current Course Schedule Academic Calendar The academic calendar is the main resource for important dates and deadlines for course registration, add/drop, financial aid, withdrawing, tuition due dates, and more. The registrar publishes the official academic calendar about a year before the start of an academic year. 2021-2022 Academic Calendar University Catalogs The General Information Catalog contains the full, official details of the university’s policies and procedures. Students are responsible for knowing and following these rules. The General Information Catalog is where you’ll find information on what to do in unusual circumstances, as well as policy details that are not included on a topic’s main page or the official academic calendar. Additional university catalogs include Undergraduate, Graduate, Law, and Medical School. University Catalogs Inclusion Statement Fostering inclusion and diversity is among our highest priorities and essential to our success. The diversity of our staff strengthens our work and enhances our ability to accomplish our mission. The diversity of the student body enriches the holistic educational experience of all students, and it prepares our graduates to thrive and lead in an increasingly global society. TEXAS ONE STOP Students! Want information about registration? Visit Texas One Stop for information about registration, degree planning, final exams, student records, and more! We're here to answer your questions and help guide you through the registration and degree planning process. Learn More Office of the Registrar Our mission is to create, maintain, certify, and protect University records of courses, degrees, and students. 1616 Guadalupe, 4th Floor Contact us UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022