GPA Calculator To calculate your GPA for the current semester, follow the instructions in the blue box. Semester Grade Points will be calculated instantly. When you are finished entering the hours and grades data, simply click on the "Calculate Semester GPA" button. An explanation of the grades and University grading policies can be found at Academic Policies and Regulations - Grading. To see how these grades will affect your current GPA, enter your Undergraduate, Graduate, or Cumulative GPA Hours and Credit Points from your latest Transcript or Academic Summary in the Current Credit Hours and Credit Points fields, then select the "Calculate Current GPA" and the "Calculate Projected GPA" buttons in that order. The totals will appear in the Projected Credit Hours, Credit Points, and GPA fields. The "Clear the Form" button will clear all data fields. Note: If you would like to verify the calculation here with pencil and paper, please refer to these instructions below. × To begin, type in your current semester information. Enter the number of credit hours and the corresponding grade, and the calculator will figure out the credit points. Current Semester Work Overall Course Work Semester Credit Hours Semester Grade Semester Credit Points Semester Hours Semester Points Semester GPA Current Credit Hours Current Credit Points Current GPA Projected Credit Hours Projected Credit Points Projected GPA This GPA Calculator is a heavily modified version of an original JavaScript program by Tonya Stacy Joseph, an engineering student from Brooklyn, NY. GPA Calculation By Hand Only courses with grades of A+ through F are used in calculating a Grade Point Average (GPA). All other grades are not used in calculation of a GPA. (For a description of the grading system, see Academic Policies and Regulations - Grading. GPA Hours this Semester is the sum of hours in courses with a grade of A+ through F. The credit points awarded for the course are calculated by multiplying the Grade Points by the hours of credit for the course. The Grade Points are determined by the grade earned in the course as described in the grading scale located at Academic Policies and Regulations - Grading. Credit Points this Semester is the sum of the credit points for each course with a grade of A+ through F. This Semester GPA is calculated by dividing the Credit Points by the GPA Hours.