Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Banner for Department Heads FAQs for Department Heads Banner for Department Heads Registration Student Profile Grade Entry Waitlisting Class List/Roster 9.9 The Portal Browse Class Schedule Registration Permits/Overrides Maintain Academic Advisors Requesting Access to Banner Understanding Proxy Access Degree Works Degree Works Advisor FAQs Degree Works FAQs for Students Degree Works Videos What's New with Degree Works Repeated Courses in Degree Works FAQs for Department Heads Grades and GPA Academic Alert System Exams Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Self-Service FAQs for Department Heads What is Banner? How do I get to Banner? How do I provide registration overrides to students? When using the Look Up Classes or Class Schedule search options, is there a way to only view open sections? Why are all of the section numbers 0? How can I quickly find all classes that carry a specific general education designation (e.g., D, I, H)? Will students still need a drop card with an advisor’s signature to drop a class after the nonrestrictive drop/add deadline? Will students still need an add card with signatures from their advisor and the class instructor to add a class during the restrictive drop/add deadline? How are registration permits/overrides handled in Banner? When a student is granted a registration permit, does that automatically register them in the class? What is Banner? Banner is the common Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system for all of the institutions under the OSU A&M System Board of Regents. The suite of Banner products includes the Student Information, Financial Aid, Accounts Receivable (Bursar), Human Resources, and Financial Records systems. How do I get to Banner? The starting place for all things Banner is the my.okstate.edu. After logging into my.okstate.edu with your O-Key information, you can access Self-Service Banner by clicking on the Self-Service icon (see below). Instructors assigned to class sections will be able to access Self-Service without specifically requesting access to Banner. Other staff and academic administrators may need to request access to Banner. How do I provide registration overrides to students? Department Heads and their designees will give permits via the Banner Administrative interface (INB) using the SFASRPO screen. Instructors should be able to give instructor permission and prerequisite overrides via Self-Service for the classes in which they are listed as the primary instructor of record (see Registration Overrides in the Faculty Services menu). Advisors will give prerequisite overrides via an online form on the Faculty/Staff SharePoint site (Advisor Prerequisite Override). When using the Look Up Classes or Class Schedule search options, is there a way to only view open sections? When using the Browse Classes tool, click the Open Sections Only box to filter your results to filter on open sections only. Note that closed classes with a waitlist available will also appear in your search results. Why are all of the section numbers 0? In Banner, section numbers still exist, but only the default 0 section number has functionality. Banner tuition/fee assessment can’t recognize section number patterns. Section numbers don’t have to be unique, and aren’t part of a section’s unique identifier in Banner. The CRN (course reference number) is the unique section identifier. Banner has many other ways to identify/search for different types of sections: Section Property Banner Field Campus Campus code Honors course Attribute (HONR) and Long section title Outreach/extension Attribute (OUTR or OUTE) Activity/schedule type Schedule type Short course Start and end dates, and Part of Term Traditional classroom or online instruction Instructional method Travel course Location (building/room) and Section comments Special tuition/fee charges Attributes (OUTR or OUTE) and Class Fee Details How can I quickly find all classes that carry a specific general education designation (e.g., D, I, H)? General education codes are designated in the class schedule as class attributes. In Self-Service, select Class Schedule under Faculty Services, and select the term. Select all of the Subjects by selecting the top subject and then pressing Shift + End. In the Attribute Type box, select the general education code, and click the “Class Search” button at the bottom to see the results. Will students still need a drop card with an advisor’s signature to drop a class after the nonrestrictive drop/add deadline? Most students will be able to drop classes online (without an advisor’s signature) through the W drop deadline. Exceptions include: Dropping all classes is not allowed online (must submit Cancellation or Withdrawal form to the Registrar’s Office). Students with registration holds will not be allowed to drop classes online, but can drop via the Registrar’s Office (signed drop card required). Select populations will have new Advisor Holds added at the beginning of the restrictive drop/add period (7th class day), and must consult with their advisor before making any changes to their schedule (see FAQ #7 above). Will students still need an add card with signatures from their advisor and the class instructor to add a class during the restrictive drop/add deadline? Yes, students who wish to add a class during the restrictive add period (typically the 7th – 10th class day) must obtain signatures from both the class instructor and their academic advisor on a drop/add card, and provide it to the Registrar’s Office within the restrictive add deadline. Adding a class online is not possible during the restrictive period. How are registration permits/overrides handled in Banner? There are multiple types of registration permits in Banner, each of which overrides different kinds of registration restrictions (find details about Common Registration Issues here): Permit Type Restriction it Overrides Who can give Permit? Department Approval Special approval Department Head Outreach Approval Special approval Outreach Office Instructor Approval Special approval Instructor or Department Head Prerequisite Override Enforced pre- or co-requisites & test scores Advisor, Instructor or Department Head Student Degree Program Override Specific degree, college, classification, major, option, and/or minor Department Head Student Attribute Override Specific student attributes (ex: Honors College) Department Head Mutual Course Exclusion Override Enrollment in > 1 mutually exclusive (or overlapping) courses Department Head Duplicate Course Override Enrollment in >1 section of same course in the same semester Department Head Maximum Cumulative Hours Limit Overrride Cumulative maximum hour limit for variable credit courses Department Most registration permits can be given to students electronically: Department heads and their designees will give permits via INB. Instructors give permits via Self-Service. Advisors will give prerequisite overrides via Advisor Prerequisite Override online form on the Faculty/Staff SharePoint site. Permits which require permission from multiple entities must still be handled via paper permission and brought to the Registrar’s Office for processing: Adding a class during the restrictive add period requires signatures from the class instructor and the student’s academic advisor on a drop/add card. Time conflict overrides require written permission from the instructors of both classes involved in the time conflict. Students seeking to register in a class with a level restriction (ex: restricted to Graduate students only) require special permission – see details about documentation required for different types of level restrictions here. Permission to enroll in excessive hours requires a completed excessive hours petition. When a student is granted a registration permit, does that automatically register them in the class? Registration permits do not automatically register a student in the class. Students will receive email confirmation when permits are granted instructing them to register themselves online. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©