Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Enrollment Late Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Enrollment Resources Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Late Enrollment Late Enrollment at the University of Kansas begins at 12:00 a.m. on the first instructional day of the Fall, Spring, and Summer semesters for full-term courses. The enrollment process varies depending on the instructional day in which you enroll. Period 1 (Days 1-5) Period 2 (Days 6-20) After Period 2 (21st+ day): By exception only in rare cases. Please see your School/College. Caution: Although the University of Kansas offers late enrollment you should enroll as early as possible. Waiting to enroll can result in fewer sections to choose from and some classes may not be available. If you are interested in enrolling late, speak to the instructor as soon as possible to see if late enrollment is permitted and what content you have missed. Short Courses Courses that do not meet for the full-term will have adjusted enrollment and refund periods that are set dynamically by the length of the course. For precise dates of enrollment periods for those courses, please see the Short Courses list for the class you are taking. Period 1 (Days 1-5) This checklist provides an overview of late enrollment for the 1st - 5th instructional days of the semester at the Lawrence/Edwards campus. A $150 late enrollment fee applies for Fall and Spring semesters; $75 for Summer term. Caution: You may petition to late enroll after the 5th instructional day of the semester/term, but the requirements are more stringent, enrollment is offline, and more classes are closed. Please see the Period 2 section below for more information. Meet with your advisor. Declared majors - see your School/College for advising information. Undeclared majors see the University Advising Center. Check for enrollment holds in the myKU portal. These are real time so be sure to check again shortly before you enroll. See the hold chart for additional hold explanations and contact information. Obtain permission codes, if needed. "Instructor Consent" or "Department Consent" appears in the schedule of classes if permission is required. Permission codes are available from the instructor or department depending upon the code. Check if classes are closed via the schedule of classes. Look at the seats available column. If a class is closed, check with the department concerning waitlist options. Waitlists are not available for all classes. Departmental staff will give you enrollment instructions based upon the available options. Make schedule changes as needed. See the add/drop/change of section checklist. If you decide to no longer attend KU, be sure to follow the procedures to officially withdraw and avoid financial and academic penalties. See the withdrawal checklist. Enrolling in excess hours. After enrolling in your maximum number of hours obtain permission from your school on a schedule change form. This must include the approval of your Dean's office. Bring the completed form to the Student Records Center at the KU Visitor Center (1502 Iowa St.), where the hours will be added. Check your schedule, tuition and fee assessment for errors. Submit applications for fee adjustments, if applicable. See the Tuition and Fees section of this site for details. Pay your fees. You will be sent a notification to your registered KU e-mail address once your bill has been generated. For more information see the billing information on the Student Accounts & Receivables website. Obtain an identification card if needed. Go to the KU Card Center, 4th floor Kansas Union. You will need proof of identification. International students must purchase insurance or provide verification of adequate pre-existing coverage. For more information, see the insurance information on the International Student and Scholar Services website. Period 2 (Days 6-20) After the fifth instructional day of the semester/term, you must petition to late enroll offline. You may obtain the form and instructions from your school here on the Lawrence campus or at the reception desk at the Regents Center on the Edwards campus. If you have any questions about obtaining the form, call the Office of the University Registrar at (785) 864-4423. A $150 late enrollment fee applies for Fall and Spring semesters; $75 for Summer term. Obtain a petition to late enroll form from your school (Lawrence) or the Regents Center Reception Desk (Edwards). You will need a valid photo ID to pick up your form. Note: You will have a limited amount of time to complete this process once you have picked up the form. Meet with your advisor. Declared majors contact your school/college for advising information. Undeclared majors contact the University Advising Center. Check your schedule, tuition, and fee assessment for errors. Submit applications for fee adjustments, if applicable. See the Tuition and Fees portion of this website for details.. Pay your fees. You will be sent a notification to your registered KU e-mail address once your bill has been generated. For more information see the billing information on the Student Accounts & Receivables Website. Obtain an identification card if needed. Go to the KU Card Center, 4th floor Kansas Union. You will need proof of identification. International students must purchase insurance or provide verification of adequate pre-existing coverage. For more information, see the insurance information on the International Student and Scholar Services website. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login