Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Commencement Graduation FAQs Commencement President's Commencement Welcome Message Apply to Graduate Steps to Graduate Undergraduate Steps to Graduate Graduate College Steps to Graduation College of Veterinary Medicine Steps to Graduation Graduation Deadlines Caps, Gowns and Regalia Caps and Gowns Academic Regalia Honors Regalia Ceremonies and Events Undergraduate Ceremony Details Parking and Accessibility Arena Entry and Security Commencement Speaker Diplomas Verification of Degree Conferral Programs, Photos and Videos Commencement Programs Commencement Photos Commencement Videos Graduation FAQs Future Commencement Dates Contacts Summer Graduate Information Contact Commencement322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078 (405) 744-4372commencement@okstate.edu Commencement Home Page Graduation FAQs How do I know if everything is in order for my graduation this semester? Where can I get a graduation application? If I did not file a graduation application will I still graduate? How do I file a graduation application for two degrees? I filled out a graduation application, but now I am not going to graduate until next semester. What do I need to do? How do I graduate with distinction? If I graduate with distinction, will it be printed on my diploma? Will my minor(s) be printed on my diploma? How can I ensure my name will be included in the Commencement program? How is my graduation announcement placed in my hometown newspaper? I am graduating with a degree in University Studies, which Commencement ceremony do I attend? Where do I purchase my cap, gown and graduation announcements? When will diplomas be ready? Can someone pick up my diploma for me? Can my diploma be mailed to an international address? My diploma has been lost, damaged, etc. Can/how do I get another one? I am applying for a job, need verification for immigration inquiries, etc. and need verification that either 1) all my requirements have been completed or 2) I am currently enrolled in the remaining hours required for my degree. FAQ Home How do I know if everything is in order for my graduation this semester? Please refer to the Steps to Graduation section of this website. Where can I get a Graduation Application? You may file a graduation application online through your Self-Service account. Login to my.okstate.edu and enter 'Self-Service'. Under the 'Student' tab, select the 'Student Records' option, then 'Apply to Graduate' to complete the graduation application. If I did not file a graduation application will I still graduate? No. The graduation application must be submitted via Self-Service to the Office of the Registrar in order to graduate, even if you do not attend the Commencement ceremony. How do I file a graduation application for two degrees? Students will be able to submit graduation applications for multiple degrees online through Self-Service. Login to Self-Service and select the 'Apply to Graduate' option under the Student Records option. You must submit a graduation application for each degree (curriculum) separately. If your additional degree program is not listed on the Self-Service Graduation Application, contact the Office of the Registrar, 322 Student Union or registrar@okstate.edu. I filled out a graduation application, but now I am not going to graduate until next semester. What do I need to do? Submit a Graduation Application Cancellation form with the Office of the Registrar. Once you receive confirmation that your Graduation Application has been cancelled, submit a new Graduation Application in Self-Service for the term you plan to graduate. How do I graduate with distinction? Students who earn an OSU undergraduate degree may also earn a level of distinction based upon the final retention/graduation grade-point average. The level of distinction added to the diploma and transcript is: Graduation/Retention Grade-Point Averages Distinction 3.90 to 4.00 Summa cum laude 3.80 to 3.89 Magna cum laude 3.70 to 3.79 Cum laude This grade-point average calculation is two decimal places only, e.g., 3.69. In actuality, this GPA may be 3.69785 if additional digits were to be added. However, the value used to determine distinction is 3.69 which does not qualify for a level of distinction. If I graduate with distinction, will it be printed on my diploma? Yes. If you graduate with distinction, your status will be printed on the diploma directly below the degree (i.e., Summa cum laude, Magna cum laude, or Cum laude). Will my minor(s) be printed on my diploma? No. Your diploma will only list your degree and major. Your minor(s) will be listed on your Official Academic Transcript. How can I ensure my name will be included in the Commencement program? For your name to appear in the commencement program, the application must be submitted by November 1 for the fall ceremony and April 1 for the spring ceremony (includes spring and summer degree candidates). Students who have completed a Request to Withhold Directory Information (Buckley form) will not appear in the Commencement program. A student with a directory hold may request a one-time exception to allow OSU to publish his/her name in the OSU Commencement Program Book by submitting a One-Time Directory Hold Exception for Commencement Program form on or before the diploma application deadline. How is my graduation announcement placed in my hometown newspaper? Once it receives final graduation lists, OSU Communications prepares announcements and distributes them to hometown papers. I am graduating with a degree in University Studies, which Commencement ceremony do I attend? The College associated with your University Studies degree is visible in the Curriculum, Hours, & GPA section of the Student Profile (in Self-Service). Where do I purchase my cap, gown and graduation announcements? For information on ordering announcements, academic regalia, and the OSU-Stillwater Graduation Fair, visit the Student Union Bookstore Graduation Information website. When will diplomas be ready? Your diploma will be ready approximately six to eight weeks after graduation. (Due to the holiday break, fall diplomas will be ready approximately eight to ten weeks.) Can someone pick up my diploma for me? Yes, you may indicate on your online diploma application a third party pickup designee. You may also provide written authorization for someone to pick up the diploma. Print and complete the Diploma Release Information form from the Forms page of our website, then mail or fax it to the Office of the Registrar. A photo ID will be required of the person picking up the diploma. Can my diploma be mailed to an international address? Yes, you must indicate the Express Mail option on the online graduation application to have your diploma mailed to an international address. Diplomas requiring express or overseas delivery require the use of the University Express Mail service. Visit https://study.eshipglobal.com/ for mailing instructions. My diploma has been lost, damaged, etc. Can/how do I get another one? To order a new copy of your diploma, you will need to submit a diploma reorder request. The cost of replacement diplomas is $50 and is payable via credit card. Requests must be initiated by the student and new diplomas are processed approximately once per month. Current & Former Students with an Active O-Key Account Login to Self-Service Select Student Records from the Student tab Select Request Duplicate Diploma and complete the order Former Students without an Active O-Key Account Former students may order a duplicate diploma through the Alternate Reorder option. Create an account and complete the order process. I am applying for a job, need verification for immigration inquiries, etc. and need verification that either 1) all my requirements have been completed or 2) I am currently enrolled in the remaining hours required for my degree. You may submit a Letter of Completion Request if all course work has been completed and you are not currently enrolled in any course required for your degree. A completion letter includes the student's name, degree, major, degree conferral date, the university's official seal, and the signature of the University Registrar. Completion letter requests will be fulfilled in approximately 1-2 weeks. Letters can be requested for current or upcoming semester only. Submission deadline for any semester is Friday of pre-finals week for the term. You may submit a Candidate Letter Request if you are currently enrolled in the final courses required for your degree. Candidate letters are certified statements that include the student's name, degree, major, expected degree conferral date, the university's official seal, and the signature of the University Registrar. Candidate letter requests will be fulfilled in approximately 1-2 weeks. Letters can be requested for current or upcoming semester only. Submission deadline for any semester is Friday of pre-finals week for the term. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©