Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Accounting Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Accounting College of Business Website: https://business.fsu.edu/departments/accounting Chair: Richard Morton; Professors: Billings, Fennema, Morton, Paterson; Associate Professors: Bathke, Blay, Bozanic, Gerard, Mauler, Reynolds, Zhang; Assistant Professors: Ehinger, Keskek, Newton, Pierce, Romney, Zimmerman; Senior Lecturers: Greenberg, Sudano; Teaching Faculty I: Adams, Polinski, Wadlinger, Woodward; Andersen Professor: Fennema; Deloitte Professor: Paterson; EY Professor: Morton; KPMG Professor: Billings; Denise Dickins Accounting Faculty Fellow: Blay; William Hillison Associate Professor: Bozanic The Department of Accounting is committed to providing students the general education and technical knowledge necessary to enter the accounting profession and to pursue a successful professional career. The field of accounting offers challenging and rewarding opportunities in public accounting, tax accounting, consulting, industry, government, and not-for-profit organizations. Prospective accountants must be prepared to work in an increasingly complex environment. In addition to accounting knowledge, the successful accountant must possess a broad knowledge of business and an analytical mindset. Other essential skills include the ability to communicate well verbally and in writing, work well with and motivate others, organize and manage tasks and other people, and use sound professional judgment. The Bachelor of Arts (BA) or the Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in accounting provides students with the knowledge of basic accounting concepts, accounting applications, and the related functional areas of business necessary for a successful accounting career in industry, government, and nonprofit organizations. Students preparing for a professional career in public accounting or tax accounting, and others who wish to obtain more advanced and specialized knowledge in the field of accounting, should also plan to complete the Master of Accounting (MAcc) program. The Master of Accounting program provides students with exposure to advanced theories and topics in the field of accounting. It offers an opportunity to pursue specialized interests and a broader knowledge of the accounting discipline in general. Completion of the BS program fulfills all educational requirements to sit for the CPA examination in the state of Florida and completion of the MAcc program satisfies the educational requirements to be licensed in the state of Florida and many other jurisdictions. In the MAcc program, students select a particular focus area from the three program options: Assurance and Advisory Services, Accounting–Generalist, and Taxation. The department also offers a combined BS/MAcc pathway that allows highly qualified undergraduate students the opportunity to accelerate their coursework and take up to nine semester hours of graduate coursework, which may be counted toward both the BS and MAcc degrees. A detailed description of the MAcc program can be found in the Graduate Bulletin. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in accounting satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2100 (state mandated business prerequisite requirement) or CGS 2518. Note: CGS 2518 is required for students in the Accounting Major and is a prerequisite for ACG 4401. Required Risk in Business and Society Course All undergraduates at Florida State University intending to enter a business major should complete RMI 2302, Risk in Business and Society, with a “C–” or better by the end of their sophomore year, but no later than their fifth mapping term. Required Professional Development Course All undergraduates entering Florida State University in Fall 2019 and later must complete a one-credit course in professional development, GEB 1030, with a “C–” or better by the end of their fifth mapping term. However, students are encouraged to complete the course by the end of their sophomore year to take full advantage of the material. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Accounting ACG X021 or ACG X022, or ACG X001 and ACG X011 ACG X071or ACG X301 CGS X100 or demonstrated competency, or CGS X100C or CGS X530 or CGS X570 or CGS X060 or CGS X531 or CGS X000 or ISM X000 or CGS X518 ECO X013 ECO X023 MAC X233 or MAC X230 STA X023 or STA X122 or QMB X100 Requirements for a Major in Accounting All students must complete: (1) the University-wide baccalaureate degree requirements summarized in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin; (2) the state of Florida common prerequisites for accounting majors; (3) the general business core requirements for accounting majors; (4) the general business breadth requirements for accounting majors; and (5) the major area requirements for accounting majors. Students must be admitted to the major no later than the end of their fifth mapping term, as determined by the College of Business. Note: To be eligible to pursue an accounting major, students must meet the admission requirements for the AACSB accredited business programs in the College of Business. These admission requirements are described in the “College of Business” chapter of this General Bulletin. General Business Core Requirements All accounting majors must complete the following five courses. A grade of “C–” or better must be earned in each course. FIN 3403 Financial Management of the Firm (3) GEB 3213 Business Communications (3) ISM 3541 Introduction to Business Analytics (3) MAN 3240 Organizational Behavior (3) MAR 3023 Basic Marketing Concepts (3) General Business Breadth All accounting majors must complete the two courses as follows. Each course must be completed with a grade of “C–” or better. FIN 3244 Financial Markets, Institutions, and International Finance Systems (3) QMB 3200 Quantitative Methods for Business Decisions (3) Capstone Course All accounting majors must complete the capstone class in Strategic Management and Business Policy (MAN 4720) with a “C–” or better. Major Area Requirements All accounting majors must complete the nine courses listed below. To enroll in the required upper-level accounting courses (those with ACG and TAX prefixes), students must have completed ACG 2021, Introduction to Financial Accounting and ACG 2071, Introduction to Managerial Accounting, with a grade of “B” or better (“B–” is not acceptable). Students must also pass an Accounting Competency examination with a grade of 70% or better. For students in the FSU ACG 2021 class, the Accounting Competency material is embedded in the course as a final exam. Students transferring ACG 2021 (or its acceptable equivalent) from another university must register for the FSU Accounting Competency Exam. Students will have one attempt to pass the competency exam. Students not receiving a 70% or better on the competency exam will be permitted to enroll in ACG 2021 at FSU. A grade of “C” or better (“C–” is not acceptable) in ACG 3101 is required to enroll in ACG 3111 or any 4000 level ACG or TAX course. A grade of “C–” or better must be earned in all other required upper-level courses. Any student not successful in obtaining the minimum passing grade within two attempts will not be permitted to enroll in that upper-level accounting course again. ACG 3101 Financial Accounting and Reporting I (3) ACG 3111 Financial Accounting and Reporting II (3) ACG 3341 Cost Accounting (3) ACG 4201 Financial Accounting and Reporting III (3) ACG 4401 Accounting Information Systems (3) ACG 4632 Auditing Theory and Application I (3) BUL 3351 U.C.C. and Law for Accountancy (3) TAX 4001 Federal Tax Accounting I (3) TAX 4011 Federal Tax Accounting II (3) Honors in the Major The Department of Accounting offers honors in the major to encourage talented students to undertake independent and original research as part of the undergraduate experience. For requirements and other information see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Definition of Prefixes ACG—Accounting BUL—Business Law CGS—Computer General Studies GEB—General Business TAX—Taxation Undergraduate Courses To register for any accounting course, students must have completed all prerequisite courses with appropriate grades. ACG 2021. Introduction to Financial Accounting (3). This course offers an introduction to financial accounting concepts, placing emphasis on financial statements and how they reflect business transactions. Please note, Accounting Majors must earn at least a “B” in this course to proceed to required 3000 level accounting courses. ACG 2071. Introduction to Managerial Accounting (3). Prerequisite: ACG 2021 with a grade of “C–” or better. This course offers an introduction to managerial accounting concepts. Please note, Accounting majors must earn at least a “B” in this course to proceed to required 3000 level accounting courses. ACG 3101. Financial Accounting and Reporting I (3). Prerequisites: ACG 2021 and ACG 2071 with a grade of “B” or better; Students must also receive a grade of 70% or higher on FSU’s ACG 2021 final exam or complete a competency exam with a score of 70% or higher. This course offers an in-depth study of financial-reporting concepts and generally accepted practice, including an overview of the accounting-cycle assets and noncurrent assets. Emphasis is placed on analyzing financial events and the consequences of financial-reporting alternatives. ACG 3111. Financial Accounting and Reporting II (3). Prerequisite: ACG 3101 with a grade of “C” or better. This course offers an in-depth study of financial-reporting concepts and generally accepted practice for long-term liabilities, leases, pensions, income taxes, and stockholder equity and earnings per share. Emphasis is placed on analyzing financial events and the consequences of financial-reporting alternatives on financial statements. ACG 3171. Analysis of Financial Statement Presentation (3). Prerequisite: ACG 2021 with a grade of “C–” or better. This course is intended to provide students with tools needed to evaluate the content of financial statements and accompanying disclosures. This is achieved by students developing an understanding of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and their application. Credit not allowed for accounting majors. ACG 3331. Cost Accounting and Analysis for Business Decisions (3). Prerequisite: ACG 2071 with a grade of “C–” or better. This course studies techniques of cost accounting and cost analysis for various business decisions. Credit not allowed for accounting majors. ACG 3341. Cost Accounting (3). Prerequisites: ACG 2021 and ACG 2071 with a grade of “B” or better; FSU’s ACG 2021 final exam with a grade of 75% or higher or complete a competency exam with a score of 70% or higher; QMB 3200 completed with a “C-” or higher, or taken as a corequisite. This course covers the planning and control of economic entities through cost-volume-profit relationships, job order, as well as process and standard cost accounting. Emphasis is placed on the relationship between accounting systems and decision making. ACG 3949. Experiential Learning (0). (S/U grade only.) This non-credit, experiential learning course offers students an opportunity to gain “real world” on-the-job work experience related to a specific academic field of study. Students must register for this course through the FSU Career Center. ACG 4201. Financial Accounting and Reporting III (3). Prerequisite: ACG 3111 with a grade of “C–” or better. This course offers an in-depth study of financial reporting concepts and generally accepted practice for investments, business combinations, consolidated enterprises, foreign operations, and the statement of cash flows. Emphasis is placed on analyzing financial events and the consequences of financial reporting alternatives. ACG 4401. Accounting Information Systems (3). Prerequisites: ACG 3101 with a grade of “C” or better and CGS 2518. This course is an introduction to manual and computerized accounting information systems. Transaction cycles, internal controls, and flowcharting are emphasized. ACG 4632. Auditing Theory and Application I (3). Prerequisites: ACG 3111 and ACG 4401 with grades of “C–” or better. This course covers legal and professional responsibility of CPAs; generally accepted auditing standards; audit programs, procedures, and evidence; review and evaluation of internal controls. ACG 4642. Auditing Theory and Application II (3). Prerequisite: ACG 4632 with a grade of “C-” or better. This course covers theory of auditing and development of audit programs; sampling; procedures of obtaining audit evidence; auditor responsibility under Securities and Exchange Commission requirements; and auditing computerized systems. Subsequent credit for ACG 5635 is not permitted. ACG 4682. Investigative Accounting (3). Prerequisite: ACG 3101 with a grade of “C–” or higher. This course provides an introduction to issues in forensic accounting. Topics include criminal statutes related to financial crimes, techniques used in solving financial crimes, rules of evidence, interviewing techniques, and forensic accounting procedures. ACG 4901r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of five semester hours. ACG 4930r. Special Topics in Accounting (1–3). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course content varies to provide an opportunity to study current issues in accounting and topics not offered in other courses. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours as content changes. ACG 4941. Accounting Internship (3). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisite: ACG 4632 and TAX 4001. This accounting internship is designed for College of Business students who desire to gain real-world experience in the accounting field through on-the-job practice. Students work under the direction of an approved industry professional, a faculty advisor, and the internship director. ACG 4970r. Honors Thesis (1–6). Prerequisite: Admission to the honors program. Six semester hours of thesis are required to complete honors in the major. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. CGS 2518. Spreadsheets for Business Environments (3). This course provides an in-depth study of spreadsheets utilizing a problem-solving approach. Spreadsheet-based solutions are explored for common business tasks and problems. The course presents a thorough coverage of spreadsheet functions and tools, along with a deep understanding of their purpose in a business environment. The course is ideal for students with professional interests related to business and economics, as well as for students wishing to obtain a deeper understanding of spreadsheets in general. GEB 3934. Global Accounting Seminar (3). (S/U grade only.) This course provides students with the “soft skills” critical for success in the accounting profession. Students spend time on campus during the Spring semester studying a variety of topics to help facilitate the transition from college life to the professional world. During spring break, students travel abroad to gain a global perspective of the business world. TAX 4001. Federal Tax Accounting I (3). Prerequisite: ACG 3101 with a grade of “C” or better. This course covers concepts and methods of determining income of individuals for tax purposes, as well as the interpretation of Internal Revenue Code, related regulations, and tax advisory services. TAX 4011. Federal Tax Accounting II (3). Prerequisite: TAX 4001 with a grade of “C–” or better. This course covers concepts and methods of determining income of corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts for tax purposes, as well as the interpretation of Internal Revenue Code, related regulations, and tax advisory services. Subsequent credit for TAX 5015 is not permitted. Graduate Courses ACG 5026. Financial Reporting and Managerial Control (3). ACG 5065. Fundamentals of Accounting and Finance (3). ACG 5135. Financial Accounting Theory and Standard Setting (3). ACG 5175. Financial Statement Analysis (3). ACG 5216. Advanced Accounting (3). ACG 5356. Advanced Management Accounting (3). ACG 5405. Advanced Accounting Information Systems (3). ACG 5458. Emerging Technologies in Accounting and Auditing (3). ACG 5466. Enterprise Systems and Accounting (3). ACG 5505. Government and Not-for-Profit Accounting and Auditing (3). ACG 5635. Auditing Theory and Application II (3). ACG 5685. Forensic Accounting (3). ACG 5695. Challenges in Professional Accounting (3). ACG 5905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ACG 5906r. Special Studies in Management (1–3). ACG 5915r. Supervised Research (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ACG 5935r. Special Topics in Accounting (1–3). ACG 5945r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) ACG 6696. Seminar in Financial and Auditing Research (3). ACG 6835. Seminar in Behavioral Accounting Research (3). ACG 6885. Introduction to Accounting Research (3). ACG 6896. Seminar in Capital Market–Based Accounting Research (3). ACG 6916r. Supervised Research (1–5). (S/U grade only.) ACG 6939r. Seminar in Accounting (3). ACG 6946r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) BUL 5335. Law for Accountancy (3). GEB 5086r. Professional Development (1–3). (S/U grade only.) GEB 5907r. Special Studies in Business (1–3). GEB 6904r. Readings for Examination (1–12). (S/U grade only.) TAX 5005. Taxes and Business Strategy (3). TAX 5015. Federal Income Tax Accounting II (3). TAX 5065. Research in Federal Taxation (3). TAX 5105. Seminar in Corporate Income Taxation (3). TAX 5205. Pass-Through Entities and Fiduciaries (3). TAX 5405. Seminar in Federal Taxation of Estates and Gifts (3). TAX 5527. Multijurisdictional Tax Issues (3). TAX 5875r. Special Topics in Taxation (1–3). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright