Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Hospitality Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Dedman College of Hospitality Undergraduate Programs Website: https://dedman.fsu.edu/ Director and Robert H. Dedman Professor: Don Farr; Professors: Bonn, Harris, Kim; Associate Professors: Ohlin, Hanks; Assistant Professors: McGinley, Dogru; Teaching Faculty III: Farr; Teaching Faculty II: Johnson; Teaching Faculty I: Lewis, Weston; Cecil B. Day Distinguished Professor of Ethics: Line; Robert H. Dedman Professor of Hospitality Management: Farr; Robert H. Dedman Professor in Service Management: Bonn; Robert H. Dedman Professor in Hospitality Management: Kim; Bessie Morgan Marshall Professor in Hospitality Management: Harris Established in 1947, the Dedman College of Hospitality (DSH) is the second oldest U.S. hospitality management program of its kind in a public university. The program is regarded by industry recruiters as one of the most highly respected, offering domestic and international studies focusing on luxury resort and lodging management, restaurant and fine dining management, beverage management, event management and private club management. The Dedman College is a free-standing academic unit of Florida State University, offering both a major in Hospitality and Tourism Management and a major in Global Club Management and Leadership as options within its Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management degree. The college is a favored hiring source for managers of the world’s leading hotels, restaurants, clubs and resorts. College administrators and faculty members work with top industry organizations, executives, and alumni to provide students with a relevant curriculum, valuable internship experiences, and networking/mentorship opportunities. Graduates are prepared to fill the growing global demand for multicultural awareness in hospitality managers and experience high industry placement rates. The college’s internship program encourages experiential learning as a complementary approach to classroom education. It offers established internships across the U.S. and those with world-class operations in many other countries, such as in Ireland and Australia. Students are also encouraged to enrich their global education through the Dedman College’s Leysin, Switzerland and Nice, France Study Abroad Program. Networking and leadership opportunities are available through student organizations — such as the Club Manager Association of America, Eta Sigma Delta, and the Florida Restaurant & Lodging Association — and through numerous events held at the school. The Dedman College’s unique curriculum parallels requirements for membership in Florida State’s elite Garnet & Gold Scholar Society, thereby supporting student leaders. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in hospitality and global club management satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2100 or CGS 2518. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Hospitality Administration/Management ECO X013 or ECO X023 HFT X000 or HFT X003 Requirements for a Major in Hospitality Management All students must complete: the University-wide baccalaureate degree requirements summarized in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin the common program prerequisites for hospitality management majors the major area requirements for hospitality management majors Hospitality and Tourism Management Major Area Requirements All hospitality management majors must complete the courses listed below with a grade of “C–” or better in each course used to satisfy the hospitality management upper-level course requirements. HFT 3424 Hospitality Financial Analysis (3) HFT 3431 Hospitality Managerial Accounting (3) HFT 3603 Law for Hospitality Operations (3) HFT 3806 Introduction to Food and Beverage Management (3) HFT 4224 Hospitality Leadership and Ethics (3) HFT 4253 Lodging and Luxury Hotel Management (3) HFT 4471 Managing Revenues and Expenses (3) HFT 4502 Integrated Marketing for Hospitality (3) HFT 4802 Catering Management (3) Hospitality Management majors must complete a minimum of three credit hours of HFT 3941 (Management Internship). Majors may complete additional credit hours (up to twelve total) of HFT 3941 (Management Internship) and use them as substitutes for elective requirements (listed below). Students must have a total of twelve credit hours from HFT 3941 and elective requirements. Hospitality Electives: HFT 1000 Introduction to Hospitality and Tourism Management (3) HFT 2060 Coffee and Tea (3) HFT 2061 Ales, Lagers, and International Culture (3) HFT 2062 International Wine and Culture (3) HFT 2063 Distilled Spirits (3) HFT 2080 International Protocol on Western Behavior and Service Standards (3) HFT 2452 Hospitality Supply Management (3). HFT 2716 International Travel and Culture (3) HFT 2890 International Food and Culture (3) HFT 3100 Introduction to Global Club Management (3) HFT 3101 Global Club Operations and Governance (3) HFT 3240 Managing Service Organizations (3) HFT 3270 Resort Operations (3) HFT 3272 Senior Services Management (3) HFT 3275 Resort Development (3) HFT 3519 Conventions Services and Events Management (3) HFT 3542 Event Management (3) HFT 3700 Tourism Management and the Environment (3) HFT 4064 Ales, Lagers, and Culture (3) Note: Students must be twenty-one years of age to take this course. HFT 4104 Global Impacts and Sustainability in the Club Industry (3) HFT 4205 Conversational Spanish for Hospitality Managers (3) HFT 4866 Wine and Culture (3) Note: Students must be twenty-one years of age to take this course. HFT 4905 Directed Individual Study (1–3) HFT 4930r Special Topics in Hospitality Administration (1–3) Students enrolled in the Dedman College of Hospitality must complete a professional management internship towards at least one thousand hours of professional industry work experience in the hospitality industry. The work experience must be completed at the post-secondary level. Students must register for HFT 4941 (Field Study in Hospitality Administration) in their final semester to document this work experience. Students needing elective hours to satisfy the University 120 total hours requirement are encouraged to select additional electives from the above list of courses. Please note that these courses may not be offered every semester. Requirements for a Major in Global Club Management and Leadership All students must complete: the University-wide baccalaureate degree requirements summarized in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin. the common prerequisites for hospitality management majors the major area requirements for hospitality management the major area requirements for global club management majors Global Club Management and Leadership Major Area Requirements All Global Club Management and Leadership majors must complete the courses listed below with a grade of “C–” or better in each course used to satisfy the hospitality management upper-level course requirements. HFT 1350 Golf for Business and Life (1) HFT 2716 International Travel and Culture (3) HFT 3100 Introduction to Global Club Management (3) HFT 3101 Global Club Operations and Governance (3) HFT 4104 Global Impacts and Sustainability in the Club Industry (3) Additional Requirements: Global Club Management and Leadership majors are required to complete six months of approved internship. Internships must be approved by the Director of Global Club Management and Leadership. Global Club Management and Leadership majors are required to complete a global component to include one of the following: International Internship, Study Abroad Experience with FSU International Programs, a Domestic Internship with a multinational corporation, or completion of the FSU Global Citizenship Certificate program. Global Club Management and Leadership majors are required to meet a foreign language component through proof of proficiency in a second language or successful completion of one semester of a second language. Attendance and/or participation in a minimum of six industry events is required. These may include but are not limited to: Club Management Association or America (CMAA), National Student Conference, CMAA World Conference, PGA Merchandise Show, CMAA FSU Student Chapter Club Tour Events, and Dedman College of Hospitality Leadership Summit. European Summer Study Program Combining accelerated classroom instruction with travel and on-site observation of industry operation, the program achieves an ideal educational balance. Classes are taught in English by Florida State University faculty. The following topics of the HFT 4930r, Special Topics in Hospitality Administration, are offered: (a) European Food and Wine, (b) European Travel and Tourism, (c) International Hotel Administration, as well as (d) Special Studies in International Hospitality Administration. Courses completed in this program count toward the state of Florida requirement that at least nine semester hours be completed in the Summer term at one of the State University System senior institutions. Only two courses completed in this program can count towards completion of the Minor in Hospitality Management. Minor in Hospitality Management Students may receive a Minor in Hospitality Management by completing twelve semester hours as follows: HFT 1000, HFT 3240, and any two of the following courses: HFT 2060, HFT 2061, HFT 2062, HFT 2063, HFT 2080, HFT 2452, HFT 2716, HFT 2890, HFT 3519, HFT 3542, HFT 3700, HFT 4064, HFT 4930r, or HFT 4866. Students must earn a minimum grade point average of 2.0 in the courses used to satisfy the hospitality management minor requirements. Definition of Prefixes HFT—Hospitality Management LEI—Leisure Undergraduate Courses HFT 1000. Introduction to Hospitality and Tourism Management (3). This course offers an introductory review of the segments, disciplines, career opportunities, and current issues in the hospitality industry. HFT 1350. Golf for Business and Life (1). (S/U grade only.) This course is designed for students who have never experienced the game of golf. Students learn the basics of the game in a casual, fun environment. This course counts as credit for a physical education activity course. HFT 2060. Coffee, Tea, and International Culture (3). This course is an introduction to coffees and teas of the world with a focus upon their importance to global cultures found in many regions. Students learn about these beverages and their unique interrelationship with their regional culture, heritage, and environment. Each beverage focuses upon specific regions of the world. HFT 2061. Ales, Lagers and International Culture (3). This course is an introduction to ales and lagers of the world with a focus upon their importance to global cultures found in many regions. Students learn about these regional beers and the interrelationship with their culture, including food, heritage, and festivals. HFT 2062. International Wine and Culture (3). This course provides an introduction to wines of the world with a focus upon the importance to global cultures. Students learn about these regional wines and the interrelationship with their cultures and heritage. HFT 2063. Distilled Spirits and International Culture (3). This course is an introduction to distilled spirits of the world with a focus upon their importance to global cultures found in many regions. Students learn about these regionally distilled beverages and their interrelationship with their culture, heritage, and environment. The course presents distilled spirits from various regions and countries of the world representing the USA, Canada, South and Central America, Asia, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, among others. HFT 2080. International Protocol on Western Behavior and Service Standards (3). This course is designed to explore the diverse verbal and non-verbal Western cultural habits, dress, behaviors, beliefs, service delivery expectations, and codes of conduct compared to the cultural mores, dress, traditions, political structure, behaviors (both verbal and non-verbal), travel, service delivery styles, and expectations of people from various international cultures. HFT 2452. Hospitality Supply Management (3). This course introduces the importance of how proper hospitality supply management can lead to hospitality business success. Understanding the relationship between what supplies are needed, negotiations, and bidding processes for obtaining competitive pricing, balancing inventory with consumer demand, developing and maintaining business relationships through the supply chain, and the proper sales process are emphasized in this class content. The course is open to all majors within the university. HFT 2716. International Travel and Culture (3). This course introduces students to contemporary tourism through a geographical and multicultural perspective of worldwide travel. The course emphasizes the most popular travel destinations and provides information about the physical and cultural characteristics of major cities, states, and countries. The course offers basic facts about travel destinations, the environment, and the people of many regions around the world, and it presents the nature of cultural diversity reflecting both Western and non-Western cultures with special emphasis on ethnic background, race, religion, values, tradition, language, material goods, and inter-relationships among local cultures. HFT 2876. Italian Wine and Culture (3). In this course, students take the first steps toward the understanding the physiological process of wine tasting. Students begin to gain familiarity with wine regions of Italy, various types of grape varietals, and the process of wine production. Students participate in hands-on experiences in a vineyard and winery. HFT 2890. International Food and Culture (3). The course is designed to explore the world’s cuisines with a focus on the history of culinary arts, indigenous ingredients, customs, protocol, celebrations, religions, and various cooking methods and terminology. HFT 2895. Italian Food and Culture (3). In this course, students learn about local Italian foods, how to prepare them, and the food culture of Italy. Students spend one day a week at an agritourism farm, engaging in the activities of the farm, including olive oil production, prosciutto and sausage making, truffle hunting, pasta making, and more. This course provides students with a rich experience and a deep understanding of Italian food culture. HFT 3100. Introduction to Global Club Management (3). This course is designed to allow the student proper exposure to the expanding global club and golf resort management industry. The course highlights career paths, identifies various types of clubs throughout the world as well as discusses the evolution of private clubs and the direction they are headed in the years to come. HFT 3101. Global Club Operations and Governance (3). Prerequisite: HFT 3100. This course is designed to provide an in depth understanding of how global club and golf resort facilities operate to remain sustainable in both the U.S. and international markets. Emphasis is placed on the club governance, management and leadership models, and the operation of various business units within a club and golf resort. HFT 3104. Global Club Member Engagement and Events (3). Prerequisites: HFT 3100 and HFT 3101. This course provides students with an in-depth look at how private club management teams and governing boards engage with their members. Focus is placed on the processes and management practices that generate member revenues, build community and facilitate member usage of their clubs. Service management theories are utilized to illustrate best practices within the industry. Students learn various methods of communicating with members, how to generate ideas that activate a membership, and implement events that promote sustainable success for private clubs. HFT 3221. Human Resource Management in Hospitality Operations (3). This course offers an analysis of human-resource issues in the hospitality industry such as staffing, training, appraisal, wage and hour administration, discrimination, harassment, and other governmental issues. HFT 3240. Managing Service Organizations (3). This course presents service management from an integrated viewpoint with a focus on customer satisfaction. The course material integrates operations, marketing, strategy, information technology, and human resources. This course addresses the concept of quality, and intends to fine tune students’ managerial skills. HFT 3242. Communication in Hospitality (3). This course familiarizes students with the principles of communication in the hospitality and tourism industries, and maximizes students’ confidence when communicating in the hospitality environment. The topics and activities inspire students to deliver excellent customer service focusing on three overall mediums of communication: written communication, oral communication, and generational communication. HFT 3270. Resort Operations (3). This course examines the unique and dynamic components of resort operations. Students study various types of resorts, lodging/F&B operations, retail/commercial leasing, community relations, real estate, and other key resort areas. HFT 3272. Senior Services Management (3). This course explores the planning, development, operation, and management of retirement facilities. Explores the various types of senior living facilities, including multi-level, independent, assisted living, and skilled-nursing care centers. HFT 3275. Resort Development (3). This course offers contemporary knowledge and understanding of concepts, challenges, and trends associated with resort development to include an in-depth examination of the process of resort development from property site identification, land acquisition, zoning and permitting, environmental impact statements (EIS), layout and design issues, construction processes, pre-opening, public relations and marketing, as well as many other issues. HFT 3277. Club Management (3). This course focuses on the development and management of clubs, including golf course operations, organizational and financial structure, membership and guest relations, design, and other amenities. HFT 3424. Hospitality Financial Analysis (3). This course is a comprehensive analysis of industry benchmarks. Students are accountable for understanding, analyzing and preparing food, beverage, dining, lodging, club, and gold operation’ budgets and financial statements. Students in the course study and learn to analyze Cash Flow Statements, Balance Sheets, Daily Sales Reports, Income Statements, Operations Budgets, and other common financial reports as they relate to the hospitality industry. HFT 3431. Hospitality Managerial Accounting (3). This course provides students with the basic knowledge of managerial accounting principles in a hospitality environment. HFT 3515. Resort Marketing and Social Media (3). This course examines resort marketing of service industries within the context of social media and how it is used to implement service strategies for resorts. This course is designed to provide students with fundamental resort marketing information combined with social media applications which enable them to establish promotional programs and develop, implement, and evaluate strategic marketing plans resorts. HFT 3519. Convention Services and Event Management (3). This course provides a comprehensive approach to managing, marketing, and planning conventions, special events, and conferences. HFT 3542. Event Management (3). This class is designed for students to learn the important aspects of planning and managing events, with an emphasis on social events such as educational, fraternal, weddings, reunions, religious, fundraising, political and others. HFT 3603. Law for Hospitality Operations (3). This course provides insight into the legal issues faced by the hospitality industry. Emphasis is placed on issues most likely to lead to litigation against operators in the hospitality industry. Topics include customer interaction, contracts, negligence, property loss, food and alcohol service and employment law. Current issues and trends will be at the forefront of our analysis. HFT 3700. Tourism Management and the Environment (3). This course focuses on tourism management, organization, and development. Emphasis on economic and environmental issues confronting the industry such as balancing use and preservation. Open to non-majors. HFT 3806. Introduction to Food and Beverage Management (3). Prerequisite: HFT 1000. This course exposes students to the business of food and beverage management, including history, noted contributors to the industry, commercial equipment, safety and sanitation, purchasing and procurement, preparation techniques, costing of food formulas, menu pricing, logistics, and service. HFT 3891. Global Food Controversy (3). This course teaches students to consider factual bases and how to differentiate them from misinformation and emotion regarding food issues. This course sheds light on the complexity of these issues and clearly highlights the scientific, cultural, political, geographical, and historical context of each issue. This course covers management methods and concepts utilized in the administration of food and beverage functions. This course equips students with the skills needed to evaluate controversial food issues as objectively as possible, leaving emotion and impulse out of the equation. HFT 3941r. Management Internship (1–12). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisites: Admission to the Dedman School of Hospitality. This internship is designed for Dedman School of Hospitality students to gain real world experience in the business field though on-the-job practice. Students work under the direction of an approved industry professional and the internship director. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. HFT 4064. Ales, Lagers and Culture (3). This course is an introduction to ales and lagers of the world with a focus upon their importance to global cultures found in many regions. Students learn about these regional beers and the interrelationship with their culture, including food, heritage, and festivals. Restricted to students twenty-one years of age and older. HFT 4104. Global Impacts and Sustainability in the Club Industry (3). This course is designed to provide the student with an in-depth understanding and appreciation for sustainable business practices within the private club and golf resort industry. Focus is placed on how existing companies operate within the sustainability model. Students are expected to generate discussions and ideas on how the industry will impact local, regional, and global communities in the future. Case studies are utilized to provide students with real world examples of current practices. HFT 4205. Conversational Spanish for Hospitality Managers (3). Prerequisite: Senior standing. This course emphasizes Spanish international culture and conversation and was designed primarily for Hospitality leaders. The course allows students to apply their Spanish-language skills to increase fluency in everyday hospitality-related situations. The course also focuses on the customs and cultural characteristics of the people from Spain as well as from Central and South America. This course is not recommended for fluent Spanish speakers. HFT 4224. Hospitality Leadership and Ethics (3). This course develops the skills needed for the analysis and development of interpersonal management skills, focusing on: leadership, ethics, employee and guest relations, and team building. HFT 4253. Lodging and Luxury Hotel Management (3). This course examines the management of the rooms departments, food & beverage departments, other profit centers and staff functions; hotel sustainability, and hospitality ethics. HFT 4471. Managing Revenues and Expenses (3). Prerequisites: HFT 3424. This course introduces students to the body of knowledge related to revenue management (RM). This course presents and reviews techniques used in maximizing revenues and managing costs in the hospitality industry. The course presents revenue management applications pertaining to the hospitality industry to control and maximize revenue. HFT 4502. Integrated Marketing for Hospitality (3). This course focuses on the applications of strategic market research and product/service positioning in the hospitality industry. Emphasis on competitive marketing strategies including sales, advertising, and promotions. Discussion of unique features of hospitality marketing, market research/analysis, ethics, and quality. HFT 4802. Catering Management (3). Prerequisite: HFT 3806. This course covers management methods and concepts utilized in the administration of food and beverage functions. HFT 4803. Advanced Food and Beverage Management (3). Prerequisite: HFT 3806. This course uses the University Center Club (ClubCorp. Inc.) to provide a study of advanced food-and-beverage-establishment management. Students work with live operation managers to design and manage scheduling, menus, profit and loss statements, labor, events, budgets, and overall corporate goal expectations. Students also experience human resource management, safety and security, and facility maintenance. Students are assigned to individually managed events under the supervision of events managers. HFT 4866. Wine and Culture (3). This course is an introduction to basic wine knowledge that, together with wine tasting, enhances student understanding and appreciation of wine and its place in our culture and heritage. Restricted to students twenty-one years of age and older. May not be taken as an S/U course. HFT 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated up to five times. HFT 4930r. Special Topics in Hospitality Administration (1–3). This course is an-depth study of current topics in hospitality administration. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours when topics change. HFT 4941. Field Study in Hospitality Administration (0). (S/U grade only.) This field study consists of 1,000 hours of satisfactory, acceptable work experience in the hospitality industry. Discussion expands and integrates the work experience to enhance management decision-making skills. Report and supervisors’ evaluation required. Students should register for this class the semester in which they plan to graduate. HFT 4970r. Honors Thesis (1–6). Prerequisite: Admission to the honors program. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. Six semester hours of thesis are required to complete honors in the major. LEI 1181. Leisure and Recreation Adaptations for All Ages and Abilities (3). This course introduces students to the concepts of leisure and recreation for people of varying abilities. Students review best practices for inclusion in facilities and programs. This course is interactive, with student participation through simulations, group discussions, presentations, and opportunities for personal reflection. LEI 1264. Backpacking (1). (S/U grade only.) This is an introductory course designed to prepare participants for backpacking in low-level terrain in a safe and environmentally sound manner. The course covers equipment, clothing, food preparation, route selection, safety and risk management, environmental practices, and “no trace” camping. LEI 1267. Canoeing/Kayaking (1). (S/U grade only.) This course is designed to give students an applicable knowledge of the sport/activity of canoeing and kayaking, as well as develop students’ physical and mental ability to learn and execute canoeing and kayaking skills. This is a beginner flat water and Class 1 level canoe course. LEI 1269. Rock Climbing (1). (S/U grade only.) This is a basic rock-climbing class. The material covered is for students with little or no experience or knowledge of rock climbing. This class is experiential in nature; therefore, being present and active in class is necessary. Skills may include but are not limited to knot-tying, belaying, bouldering, safety concerns, route reading, and technique. LEI 2318. Events: Love Them, Then Leave Them. What’s My Footprint? (3). This course provides an overview of ethics and corporate social responsibility in the meetings, conventions, and events industry. Students evaluate the application of ethical practices in the meeting and events industry. The correlation between ethical behavior and corporate social responsibility is also analyzed. Students learn to identify and determine when sustainability related practices are applied to meetings, conventions, and events. LEI 3004r. Introduction to Recreation, Tourism, and Events (3). This course provides an introduction to the nature and diversity of recreation pursuits and the social and cultural forces that influence leisure related choices. Students examine the various ways in which recreation is organized for delivery by professionals working in the recreation and event industry. Career opportunities in recreation, park, and event management are explored. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours. LEI 3265r. Challenge Course Facilitation Training (1–4). This course provides the student with the knowledge and skills to lead new games and field games and to facilitate group initiatives, and low ropes and high ropes challenge courses. The student learns to facilitate diverse groups to develop teamwork, and leadership skills, improve group dynamics, increase trust and improve communication, and direct a wide variety of challenge course activities. The course stresses safety, particularly in the use of ropes course apparatus, equipment, sequencing, and processing. The challenge-by-choice philosophy is followed throughout. This course comprises four separate components, which must be taken in sequence but may be taken in subsequent semesters. LEI 3266. Outdoor Adventure Education (3). This course provides education in teaching leadership and programming skills for outdoor adventures through observation, direct participation and skills demonstration. LEI 3312. Introduction to Special Events (3). This course introduces students to special event planning and prepares them to design and implement a variety of special events for leisure, recreation, and park organizations, community organizations, non-profit agencies, associations, corporations, and other organizations. LEI 3420. Recreation Activities Leadership (3). This course includes selection, development, and understanding of recreation activities and how specific activities meet the needs of individuals. This course develops leadership skills and the ability to plan and lead activities appropriate to age, interest, ability, and culture. LEI 3435. Planning Recreation Experiences (3). This course is designed to facilitate the understanding of principles and methods of recreation program design and operation. Students apply goal and objective technology, and development and sequencing of activities in creating a program design within the recreation, tourism and event field. LEI 3701. Human Development and Functioning in Leisure (4). This course examines the role of human development and functioning for the entire age spectrum, including disabilities. LEI 3843. Commercial Recreation and Tourism (3). This course is designed to introduce the concepts, principles, and practices of commercial recreation and tourism. LEI 4313. Special Event Resource Development and Fundraising (3). This course supplies students with an understanding of the methods for obtaining and managing the resources required for the operation of special events, including fundraising activities and volunteers. LEI 4314. Event Operations and Management (3). This is an advanced course in event planning and operations that provide students the opportunity to apply skills and concepts needed to plan and produce successful events. Focus is placed on managerial aspects of events such as financing, economic impact, and legal issues involved with events. LEI 4524. Leadership and Supervision in Recreation, Tourism and Events (3). Prerequisite: LEI 3004. This course introduces the concepts, principles, and best practices for leading and supervising employees of recreation, sport, and leisure service organizations. LEI 4551. Administration of Recreation, Tourism, and Event Organizations (3). In this course, students learn the skills needed for the administration of recreation, tourism, and event services providers, including legal foundations, contracts, risk management, revenue sources, budgeting, and financial management. LEI 4561. Special Event Promotions (3). This course presents students with an overview of standard event promotional techniques including online marketing strategies. LEI 4602. Planning and Maintenance of Facilities in Leisure Systems (3). This course provides basic information for the planning and maintenance of leisure areas and facilities. LEI 4864. Technology for Events (3). This course introduces the student to the variety of ways computer applications and other technologies are used in planning, design, marketing, and evaluation of events. LEI 4881. Assessment, Research, and Evaluation in Recreation, Tourism, and Events (3). Prerequisite: LEI 3435. This course enables students to assess, research, and evaluate the functions, participant interests, and behaviors in recreation, tourism and event organizations. LEI 4906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. LEI 4921r. Fieldwork in Recreation, Tourism and Events (1–3). (S/U grade only.) Prerequisites: LEI 3004 or 3420. This course is designed to provide the student with an opportunity to gain practical experience by working in an organized recreation, parks, tourism or special event agency. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. LEI 4930. Senior Seminar in Recreation, Tourism, and Events (1). Pre- or corequisites: LEI 4551, LEI 4602, and LEI 4881. This seminar introduces current trends, issues and problems facing the recreation, tourism and events industry, and guides students’ professional development as they seek their senior internship and career. LEI 4932r. Special Topics in Leisure Services (3). In this course, current topics in Leisure Services are studied in depth. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. LEI 4940r. Internship in Recreation, Tourism and Events (15). Prerequisite: LEI 4930. This course is a full-time internship experience in a recreation, tourism, and events organization under the supervision of a professional in that field. May be repeated to a maximum of thirty (30) credit hours; repeatable within the same term. Graduate Courses HMG 5270. Lodging and Resort Management (3). HMG 5292. Sustainable Hospitality Management (3). HMG 5296. Business Strategy for the Hospitality Industry (3). HMG 5465. Hospitality Financial Management (3). HMG 5466. Hospitality Revenue Management (3). HMG 5477. Financial and Cost Control Systems for Hospitality and Tourism Organizations (3). HMG 5501. Hospitality Marketing Strategy (3). HMG 5506. Services Marketing and Research for Hospitality and Tourism Organizations (3). HMG 5697. Managing Legal Risks of Hospitality Organizations (3). HMG 5756. Convention Services and Events Management (3). HMG 5800. Food and Beverage Management (3). HMG 5908. Studies in Hospitality and Tourism (3). HMG 5937. Special Topics (3). LEI 5185. Current Issues in Leisure (1). LEI 5316. Event Planning Management (3). LEI 5317. Event Management Issues in Ethics and Risk Management (3). LEI 5530. Problems of Staff Development (3). LEI 5555. Analysis and Management of Leisure Systems (3). LEI 5563. Event Marketing (3). LEI 5576. Fiscal Policy and Management of Leisure Systems (3). LEI 5815. Leisure Education (3). LEI 5889. Research in Leisure Services (3). LEI 5908r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). LEI 5915r. Supervised Research (1–4). (S/U grade only.) LEI 5930r. Special Topics in Recreation and Leisure (1–3). LEI 5941. Practicum in Leisure Services (9). LEI 5942. Practicum in Events Management (3). LEI 5944r. Fieldwork in Leisure Services (1–3). LEI 5945r. Supervised Teaching (1–5). (S/U grade only.) HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: see Urban and Regional Planning HUMAN SCIENCES, GENERAL COURSES: see College of Health and Human Sciences Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright