Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Graduation Diplomas Home Graduation Diplomas Graduation Information Overview Graduation Checklist Important Dates Cap and Gown Information Ceremony Information Parking Information Commencement Schedule by College Guest Tickets & Grad Passes Degrees of Distinction Diploma Information Certified Electronic Diploma CeDiploma Diploma Validation Transcripts Commencement Program as a PDF Update Expected Grad Term Frequently Asked Questions Diplomas After you're cleared by both your academic dean and the Registrar's Office, your diploma will be mailed to you. Please allow six to eight weeks after the semester ends for your diploma to arrive. If you have additional questions, please call (850) 644-1050. Ordering a Replacement Diploma We order diplomas weekly, and they are typically received within two to three weeks of the date on which we place the order. To order a replacement diploma (size 11"x14"), you must send a written request with your signature and the information noted below. The Replacement Diploma Request Form is available as a PDF. Your name exactly as it should appear on the diploma NOTE: If your name changes, include a copy of your driver's license or marriage license to have your new name printed on the diploma. The semester and year of graduation Your major and degree Your mailing address A $10.00 check or money order (per diploma) payable to Florida State University Replacement diplomas will be issued using the current diploma format; therefore, they may not be an exact replica of your original diploma. Replacement diplomas will include a "Replacement Diploma issued on [date]" statement in the lower left corner. This statement is generally hidden depending on the type of frame and matting used. Having Your Diploma Certified with an Apostille Send your original diploma, or send a written reorder request (see above) with a $10.00 (per diploma) check or money order payable to Florida State University. Enclose a cover letter stating the name of the country in which the documents will be used, along with a $10.00 (per diploma) check or money order payable to the Department of State. The country name is required in order to authenticate the document, whether by Certificate of Notarial Authority or Apostille. Please include a telephone number where you can be reached during normal business hours. FSU will notarize your diploma free of charge and forward your notarized diploma and Apostille request to the Department of State. Include a self-addressed, stamped envelope for the Department of State to mail the diploma and Apostille certification back to you. Make sure to sign the request, and mail it to the following address: Office of Student Business Services Florida State University A1500 University Center 282 Champions Way PO Box 3062394 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2394 Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright