Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home FAQs Transcripts and Academic Records FAQs FAQs For Advisors Certifications Enrollment/Registration Graduation and Commencement Incomplete Grade Policy - Students Incomplete Grade Policy - Faculty Thesis/Dissertation Grade Policy Transcripts and Academic Records Tuition and Fee Adjustments Veteran Services Military Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Official Transcripts Transcripts and Academic Records FAQs General Transcript Questions How can I request an official transcript? How much do transcripts cost? How can I request multiple paper transcripts to be delivered in individually sealed envelopes? How soon after the end of the semester can I get a transcript with the current semester grades on it? How long does it take to process my transcript request? Can I obtain a transcript if I have a transcript hold? Can I receive my transcript by fax or e-mail? Can I access and print my transcript online? Can I request my transcript by e-mail or phone? I am no longer a current student, how do I request my transcript? Paper Transcripts How can I request multiple paper transcripts delivered in individually sealed envelopes? How can I request a paper transcript with expedited shipping? Do you mail transcripts overseas? How do I order a notarized transcript? How do I order a standard paper transcript for the apostille process? eTranscripts What is an electronic transcript (eTranscript)? Can I have eTranscripts sent to more than one recipient on the same order? How long is the eTranscript available to the recipient? I provided an incorrect e-mail address for the recipient. Can I change the address? Can the recipient print an official copy of my eTranscript? General Academic Record Questions Can I get a copy of my ACT scores, SAT scores, or transcripts from my high school or other institutions? How can I get my name changed on my academic records? How do I change my major and advisor? How do I change my address? General Transcript Questions How can I request an official transcript? Current Students – Login to Student Self-Service and select Student Profile, then Request Official Transcript from the Additional Links. Alumni/Former Students – Request a transcript using our transcript ordering site. How much do transcripts cost? Expedited eTranscripts are $6 per recipient, and are the fastest method for official transcript delivery. Paper transcripts with standard USPS shipping are $8 when ordered through our transcript ordering site. Current students pay academic records maintenance fees and can request paper transcripts with standard USPS shipping at no cost from Self-Service. Paper transcripts with expedited shipping is available through the transcript ordering site for an additional fee ($25.00 for expedited domestic shipping and $50 for expedited international expedited shipping). How can I request multiple paper transcripts to be delivered in individually sealed envelopes? To request multiple paper transcripts in individually sealed envelopes (one transcript per envelope), you must submit each paper transcript order separately with a quantity of one (1). Multiple transcripts ordered in a single order will be placed in a single sealed envelope. How soon after the end of the semester can I get a transcript with the current semester grades? Final grades can be viewed in Self-Service via View Grades as soon as the instructor enters them, but they will not print on official transcripts until one week after the end of the term. We recommend waiting to submit an official transcript request until one week after the end of the term to ensure final semester grades are included. How long does it take to process my transcript request? eTranscripts are typically processed within a few hours on business days with immediate availability after processing. Paper transcript requests typically require 2-3 business days for in-house processing, (allow additional processing time for high volume periods between semesters) and are then mailed via standard USPS shipping, unless expedited shipping was purchased. Additional processing time is typically required for orders placed on weekends, during University holidays or other University closures, and for students whose last term of enrollment at OSU was prior to Fall 1999. Official transcripts cannot be provided to students with transcript holds. Can I obtain a transcript if I have a transcript hold? We cannot process transcript requests for students with a transcript hold until the hold has been cleared. Holds may be placed on your academic records if you have financial or other obligations with the University. To avoid transcript processing delays, current students can view holds in the Self-Service Student Profile and alumni can contact the Office of the Registrar at 405-744-6876 to verify that your account is clear of transcript holds before submitting a transcript request. Can I receive my transcript by fax or e-mail? We do not fax or email official transcripts (they are printed on special security paper which does not fax or copy legibly). Expedited official eTranscripts are delivered electronically via secure download to any recipient with a valid e-mail address. Can I access and print my transcript online? Current students may access and print their unofficial academic transcript from Self-Service. Select the Student Profile and choose Academic Transcript from the Additional Links. Can I request my transcript by e-mail or phone? We do not accept phone or e-mail requests for transcripts. I am no longer a current student, how do I request my transcript? Visit our transcript ordering site and select "Create Account'. Be sure to use a personal email address instead of an OSU student or alumni email account. If you have previously requested transcripts, your student ID may be attached to an old account. Please create your new account without entering a student ID. Paper Transcripts How can I request multiple paper transcripts delivered in individually sealed envelopes? To request multiple paper transcripts in individually sealed envelopes (one transcript per envelope), you must submit each paper transcript order separately with a quantity of one (1). Multiple transcripts ordered in a single order will be placed in a single sealed envelope. How can I request a paper transcript with expedited shipping? Paper transcripts with expedited shipping must be ordered through the transcript ordering site. Domestic expedited shipping via UPS Next Day Air requires an additional $25 fee, and international expedited shipping via FedEx International Priority requires an additional $50 fee. We will make every effort to provide same day processing for expedited orders received by 12:00 pm noon (CST) on standard business days. Orders received after noon (CST) on Fridays, over the weekend, or on University holidays will be shipped the next business day. Due to the current health concerns, additional processing may be required. Additional processing time is required for students whose last term of enrollment at OSU was prior to Fall 1999, and for notarized or apostille transcripts. Consider ordering an eTranscript for a faster and more economical option. eTranscripts are the fastest delivery method for official transcripts. Do you mail transcripts overseas? Yes, transcripts are mailed overseas by first class air mail. Expedited international shipping can be purchased on our transcript ordering site. Consider ordering an eTranscript for a faster and more economical option. How do I order a notarized transcript? Download, complete and sign the Standard Paper Transcript Additional Services Form, then upload it as an attachment with a paper transcript order on our transcript ordering site. How do I order a standard paper transcript for the apostille process? Download, complete and sign the Standard Paper Transcript Additional Services Form, then upload it as an attachment with a paper transcript order on our transcript ordering site. eTranscripts What is an electronic transcript (eTranscript)? An eTranscript is a secure, certified PDF of your official Oklahoma State University transcript. It is accompanied by a cover page providing information about the document itself. The eTranscript is downloaded from a secure website as a PDF document and is protected by an electronic signature which verifies that the document was sent from the OSU Registrar's Office and has not been altered. Can I have eTranscripts sent to more than one recipient on the same order? Additional recipients can be added by clicking on "Continue Shopping" and entering the delivery details for the additional recipient(s). There is an additional $6 charge for each recipient added. How long is the eTranscript available to the recipient? An eTranscript will be available to the recipient for download up to 30 days or a maximum of 7 downloads. I provided an incorrect e-mail address for the recipient. Can I change the address? If the recipient e-mail address was a valid address and the eTranscript has already been delivered and downloaded, you must submit a new eTranscript request (standard expedited eTranscript charges apply). However, if we receive and process your request to correct the recipient's e-mail address before the eTranscript has been delivered and downloaded, we can make the correction at no additional charge. You will need to provide the corrected e-mail address to us in writing (via e-mail at registrar@okstate.edu or fax at 405-744-8426), including your name, your eTranscript order number, and the correct recipient e-mail address. Can the recipient print an official copy of my eTranscript? Once downloaded from the secure site, the official eTranscript can be printed. Our eTranscripts contain the same content and have the same appearance as standard official paper transcripts issued by the OSU Office of the Registrar, including the University seal and the signature of the University Registrar. Printed copies of eTranscripts will; however, include a watermark stating "Copy of Official Transcript." General Academic Record Questions Can I get a copy of my ACT scores, SAT scores, or transcripts from my high school or other institutions? We do not issue copies of ACT or SAT scores or transcripts from other schools. Contact the testing agencies for copies of exam scores, or institutions directly for transcripts. How can I get my name changed on my academic records? Changing your name in the OSU system requires submission of a Correction or Change of Name form along with copies of your new Social Security card or ITIN, and valid government issued photo ID (state-issued driver’s license or other state-issued ID, passport, or military ID) which both reflect the name change. See instructions on the Correction or Change of Name form for details. How do I change my major and advisor? Students who wish to change their major or academic advisor should start the process by consulting an academic advisor or your college's Student Academic Services Office. How do I change my address? Current students can log in to Student Self-Service and update their address and phone number in the Personal information section. Former students can download and complete the Address Change Request form from the Forms page of our website, then submit it to our office via email at registrar@okstate.edu. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©