Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Calendars + Exams Evening Preliminary Examinations Preliminary examinations (“prelims”) are mid-semester exams typically held during regularly scheduled class meeting times, in regularly scheduled classrooms. When it is necessary to hold an evening prelim outside of regularly scheduled class meetings, those prelims may be scheduled only on Tuesday and Thursday evenings and only after 7:30 PM. Instructors holding evening prelims are strongly urged to indicate this in the course descriptions and must notify students of the dates of such examinations as early as possible in the semester, preferably when the course syllabus is distributed. If an evening prelim is scheduled, an alternative time to take the examination must be provided for those students who have academic, religious, athletic, or employment conflicts at the time scheduled. For more information on the policy governing evening examinations, contact the Office of the Dean of the Faculty, 315 Day Hall, deanoffaculty@cornell.edu. Final Examinations The academic calendar sets aside, after the last week of classes, a study period followed by a period for final examinations. Advances in pedagogy and variations in practice across fields have broadened the range of commonly used end of semester evaluative exercises beyond traditional sit-down final examinations. The Office of the University Registrar assigns a specific day and time for a course's final exam, or final project due date. The rules and guidelines governing exams aim to protect students from unreasonable demands on their time while simultaneously providing instructors the flexibility to design evaluative exercises appropriate to their courses. The designated final exam days and times are scheduled to minimize conflicts and spread students' workloads as evenly as possible over the exam period. Faculty members are urged to accommodate students' requests for alternative exam times or make-up examinations when students' exam schedules are sufficiently congested to warrant such accommodation. For example, a student facing a direct conflict or three or more examinations during one twenty-four hour time period merits such accommodation. Schedules for final examinations, and due dates for end of semester projects, papers and take home exams are made available online. No traditional final examination may be administered at a time other than the time assigned by the Office of the University Registrar without prior written permission of the dean of the university faculty. The rules and policies governing exams are available on the final exam policies page. Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files No Related Links No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University