Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Records Grades Grade Point Averages Overview Enrollment Certification Delegate Access Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Transcripts Records Forms University Seal Grade Point Averages Grade Point Average (GPA) is a quotient determined by dividing the number of grade points earned by the number of credit hours attempted and graded A,B, C, D, and F as defined in University Senate Rules and Regulations Article 2 Section 4. GPA appears in a number of campus systems and can vary based on what course work is counted towards that GPA. The GPA Calculator can be used to assist in estimating a GPA or what courses are needed to impact a GPA. Official KU GPA The Official KU GPA is in Enroll & Pay and is what appears on a student's official transcript and is the final GPA used for determining University eligibility for graduation (schools may have additional requirements). This GPA reflects only course work taken in residence at the University of Kansas and will exclude coursework transferred from other institutions and academic credits earned by examination. This GPA is calculated separately for each student career (i.e. - undergraduate, graduate, medical, continuing education). This GPA is calculated in both a per term and cumulative format. Admissions GPA for Transfers The admissions GPA is governed by the Transfer Coursework policy. The transfer admissions GPA is calculated by dividing the grade points earned in all transferable coursework by the cumulative graded (A-F) credit hours. The admission GPA is in Enroll and Pay on the External Education pages, under transcript summary and external GPA. If a student repeats a course at the same institution, KU will honor the course repeat policy in effect at the institution issuing the transcript. If a student repeats a course taken at one institution with an approved equivalent course from another institution, both grades will be used to calculate the transfer admissions GPA. Credit will be awarded only once for successful completion of a course and only the instance of the best grade for a transferable repeated course will count toward degree requirements. Grades of satisfactory/unsatisfactory, pass/fail, credit/no credit and similar will not count in computing the admissions grade point average. Degree Progress/Advising Tool GPA's The DPR and Advising Tool calculate GPAs based on the policies of the College and Schools. GPA's in the DPR may take different aspects of a student's work at KU or previous institutions into account when calculating and may be used to determine meeting degree/major requirements, probation, honor roll, or distinction/highest distinction. There are three main categories of GPA in the DPR and Advising Tool: Individual School GPA (includes transfer work unless otherwise indicated) KU and Transfer Cumulative GPA KU Cumulative Graduation GPA Individual School GPA KU and Transfer Cumulative GPA KU Cumulative Graduation GPA Architecture, Design & Planning Design Major GPA (only design courses) Calculates across all careers and includes transfer work. Any Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, Continuing Education taken in Residence. No CR grades. Engineering Engineering GPA (only KU hours): Architectural Engineering does KU and Transfer work. Counts all ENGR, some EPHX cross-listed PHSX courses, and some EECS cross-listed courses (excluding ENGR 300 & 490) Sophomore C&PE GPA: Chemical and Petroleum GPA for certain C&PE courses Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, and Continuing Education, and transfer work. Excludes ENGR 300 & 490. Any Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, and Continuing Education coursework taken in Residence. No CR grades. Journalism Journalism GPA (only KU hours): counts all JOUR, BUS 476, and some RTVF, TH&F, and THMA courses. N/A Calculated KU GPA: includes anything taken in residence that counts towards a GPA Social Welfare BSW Social Work GPA: Only counts SW courses BSW Social Work Total GPA: Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, Continuing Education, and transfer work. N/A Nursing Nursing GPA Calculates across all careers and includes transfer work. N/A Business Overall Professional GPA: counts ACCT, BLAW, FIN, IST, IBUS, MGMT, MKTG, BUS, BE, EECS 128, ECON, ENTR, SCM, BBA, SA&D 402 courses taken at KU. Includes transfer work. KU Overall Professional GPA: Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Continuing Education, and transfer work in the same subjects and courses as the Overall Professional GPA. Overall GPA: Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Continuing Education, and transfer work. N/A College of Liberal Arts & Sciences School of Arts N/A Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, Continuing Education, and transfer work. Any Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, Continuing Education taken in Residence. No CR grades. Pharmacy N/A All Undergraduate Lawrence courses and transfer work. N/A Music N/A Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Continuing Education, and transfer work. KU Cumulative GPA that includes Undergraduate Lawrence and Continuing Education taken in Residence. Education N/A Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Undergraduate KU Med, Continuing Education, and transfer work. N/A Health Sciences N/A Includes Undergraduate Lawrence, Continuing Education, and transfer work. N/A KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login