Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR (OUR) Menu Students Staff & Faculty Registration Classrooms Curriculum About OUR Home (OUR) Registration Prepare to Register Prepare to Register Close Menu Home Registration ACCESS Program ACCESS Registration Course Fundamentals Policies & Procedures Prepare to Register Registration Changes Registration Periods Registration Resources State Employee Tuition Exemption Continuing Students Students who are continuing, registering from one quarter to the next (excluding Summer quarter), may register beginning at 6am on their Priority Registration Date. New, Transfer, Grad, Professional, Returning Students Confirm Plans to Enroll New Undergrad & Transfer Students Graduate & Professional Students Returning Students* 1. Access the New Huskies website 2. Accept admission offer 3. Pay New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fee (NSEOF) Get help with ECS and NSEOF 1. Access the Enrollment Confirmation System (ECS) 2. Accept admission offer 3. Pay the Enrollment Confirmation Deposit (ECD) Get help with the ECS or ECD 1. Access the Enrollment Confirmation System (ECS) 2. Accept re-admission offer Get help with the ECS *Returning students, those with an absence of more than one quarter (excluding Summer quarter), must first complete the Re-Enrollment process. Enrollment Confirmation Acknowledgement Following successful acceptance of admission or readmission offer and payment of NSEOF or ECD, students receive an Acknowledgement of Confirmation (AoC) via email. New Undergrad & Transfer Students Graduate & Professional Students Returning Students 1. Follow New Huskies instructions to create a UWNetID** 2. Students must sign up for an Advising & Orientation Session (A&O) through First Year Programs (FYP) A Private Access Code (PAC) and instructions are provided to create a UWNetID** A Registration Date is provided in the AoC Students should confirm their UWNetID** is active in order to register via MyUW or MyPlan Get help with forgotten UWNetID or password **A UWNetID is required to access most University systems including registration resources – MyUW and MyPlan. Register for Courses New Undergrad & Transfer Students Graduate & Professional Students Returning Students Registration is completed during the Advising & Orientation Session (A&O) Students register via MyUW on registration date indicated in the AoC. Registration Resources Students register via MyUW no earlier than Registration Period II Registration Resources Immunizations All first-time, matriculated students must provide proof of immunity to certain diseases. Hall Health Center administers the UW Immunization Requirement program. Visit the UW Immunization Requirement website for instructions on how to submit the required UW form and any additional documentation. Home Registration ACCESS Program ACCESS Registration Course Fundamentals Policies & Procedures Prepare to Register Registration Changes Registration Periods Registration Resources State Employee Tuition Exemption Search OUR Search for: Email Registration regoff@uw.edu Submit a Question Topic of Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Let us know what your question or request is about and we'll make sure it's routed to the appropriate office and generate a ticket. - Choose a Topic -Academic Data ManagementDean's List LetterDegree AuditEnrollment VerificationPayment of ECD/NSEOFGraduation & DiplomasRegistration Process/Issue/ErrorResidencyTime ScheduleTranscriptsUWNetID RequestWebsite Issue: registrar.washington.eduOther/not sure For Residency contact information please visit the Residency Contact Page Your answer may be found by checking out how to ORDER TRANSCRIPTS, reviewing the TRANSCRIPT FAQS, or looking up the TRANSCRIPT LEGEND . Name* Email Address* Inquiry, Request, or Comment* Type your question or comment below. Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Holiday Closures Spring 2022 Mon, May 30 (Memorial Day) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA