Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Residency Armed Forces Residency Benefit Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Armed Forces Residency Benefit Certain military-affiliated students may be eligible for in-state tuition rates. This is in compliance with State of Kansas law, the federal Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, and the Colonel John M. McHugh Tuition Fairness for Survivors Act of 2021. How to receive resident status for fee purposes Service members, spouses, dependents Prior-service veterans, spouses, dependents Who's eligible Currently serving members in the U.S. Armed Forces (Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Coast Guard), spouses and dependent children who are: Active Duty Reserves Kansas Army or Air National Guard Process Provide a copy of current orders to the Office of the University Registrar at registrar@ku.edu by the 30th day of the semester being requested. If ROTC, include a copy of current contract for enlistment or reenlistment in the Armed Forces. If spouse or dependent child, also provide documentation verifying relationship to service member (i.e. birth certificate, tax returns, military dependent ID) if not listed on the orders. You must begin this process by the 30th day of the semester being requested. Retroactive requests will not be approved. If you are experiencing a delay in obtaining documents from VA, please let our office know. To keep residency status Maintain continuous enrollment (except summer terms & breaks) Who’s eligible Veterans, spouses and dependent children who meet at least one of the following three conditions: Currently eligible to receive a VA educational benefit (i.e. GI Bill® Chapters 30, 31, 33, 35, 1606); or Veteran was permanently stationed in Kansas during service in the Armed Forces; or Veteran had established Kansas residency prior to joining the Armed Forces AND are living in Kansas while attending KU AND who submit a letter of intent to establish residence in Kansas Process Note: for these steps, KU Online ID login required 1. Update your "current address" in KU Enroll & Pay to a Kansas address. 2. Complete the statement of intent webform by the 30th day of the semester being requested and upload any of the following to the form: VA GI Bill Certificate of Eligibility or Statement of Benefits DD-214 or other documentation showing proof of prior Kansas residency Any official military documents showing a Kansas location as a permanent duty station 3. If spouse or dependent child, also provide documentation verifying relationship to veteran (i.e. birth certificate, tax returns, military dependent ID) if not already listed on one of the aforementioned documents. You must begin this process by the 30th day of the semester being requested. Retroactive requests will not be approved. If you are experiencing a delay in obtaining documents from VA, please let our office know. To keep residency status Maintain continuous enrollment (except summer terms & breaks), AND Maintain physical presence residence in Kansas during enrollment Frequently Asked Questions I applied to KU and was admitted as an out-of-state resident, but I qualify for in-state tuition based on the Armed Forces Residency Benefit. Why did that happen? Per Kansas state law, you must be enrolled in at a state educational institution in order to receive the Armed Forces Residency benefit. You're also required to have a Kansas address listed in KU Enroll and Pay and you must submit a statement of intent to establish residency in Kansas, both of which require a KU log in. What if I don’t have a Kansas address because we haven’t yet moved there? We recommend waiting to apply for the in-state residency until you have a Kansas address. You have up to 45 days after classes start to apply for the residency status without having to file an appeal. How do I get a Certificate of Eligibility or Statement of Benefits? If you have not yet applied for VA benefits, visit the VA's website and apply. The VA will mail you a COE 4-8 weeks after you've applied. If you have applied but cannot locate your COE, get a copy of Post-9/11 GI Bill Statement of Benefits or, for all other GI Bill users: Click the "Ask a Question" button (VA login required) on the GI Bill website and submit a query for the VA to mail copy of your COE. I am/my sponsor is a member of the National Guard in another state. Am I eligible for in-state rates? You will not be eligible to apply for in-state residency based on National Guard status from another state per Kansas law. You may still apply for in-state residency based on the veterans/spouses/dependents criteria, if applicable. I plan to live in Missouri during college – can I get in-state tuition rates? It depends. If you meet the criteria for current service members/spouses/dependents, where you live does not matter. For veterans/spouses/dependents, if you have the Post-9/11 GI Bill at the 100% rate you may be eligible for Yellow Ribbon while using the GI Bill. Otherwise, it is a requirement for students to live in Kansas to receive the Armed Forces Residency benefit. Does KU offer Yellow Ribbon? Yes - Yellow Ribbon covers the difference between out-of-state and in-state tuition so is only for students who do not meet the Armed Forces Residency Benefit criteria above. If you plan to live in Kansas while attending KU, you will not need Yellow Ribbon - apply for in-state tuition rates per the Armed Forces Residency Benefit instead. You must be a Post-9/11 GI Bill user at the 100% rate to use Yellow Ribbon. If you are using Post-9/11 GI Bill at 100% and live in Missouri while attending classes at KU, please complete the Yellow Ribbon Application each semester you have benefits. This benefit is only good for as long as you have GI Bill benefits. Do I lose my in-state resident status if I run out of the GI Bill? No, as long as you meet the criteria above to keep residency status. If I take a fall or a spring semester off from KU, do I need to reapply for resident status? Yes, unless you are in the Guard/Reserves, were called to active duty, and you notified KU. How do I use my GI Bill benefits at KU? Please visit veterans.ku.edu/vabenefits for steps on using your GI Bill benefits. Where do I find the Kansas Board of Regents Statute for residency for military personnel and veterans? Please visit the Kansas Board of Regents Residency Rules and Regulations site for the statute. ‘‘GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill." KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login