Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Civil Engineering Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering FAMU–FSU College of Engineering Website: https://www.eng.famu.fsu.edu/cee/ Chair: Lisa Spainhour; Professors: AbdelRazig, Abichou, Chen, Clark, Huang, Jung, Moses, Mtenga, Sobanjo, Spainhour, Tawfiq; Associate Professors: Ozguven, Rambo-Roddenberry; Assistant Professors: Alamdari, Choi, Dulebenets, Tang, Zhang; Teaching Professors: Adalier, Ahmad, Pamuk; Teaching Faculty II: Kampmann; Teaching Faculty I: Guo; Professor of Practice: Martin; Senior Research Associate: Ahmadisharaf; Professors Emeriti: Dzurik, Nnaji, Ping, Wekezer Opportunities and Facilities Many opportunities exist in the field of civil engineering that encompass planning, designing, and managing a variety of projects. Your work could be on site at a project or at a computer workstation. Civil and environmental engineers often find themselves involved in many of the public work projects funded by federal, state, and municipal governments, as well as those projects undertaken by the private sector. As a structural engineer, you might analyze and design structures out of steel, concrete, aluminum, timber, plastic, and other new materials that are able to support required loads and withstand natural disasters. An environmental engineer, with a background in either physical, chemical, or biological science, helps to prevent and solve environmental problems. Engineers in the geotechnical realm apply technology, field test information, and laboratory analyses related to mechanics and mathematics to create the infrastructure facilities within and on top of the earth. The structure and stability of soils determine how and where to construct tunnels, pipelines, and deep foundations as well as highways and other buildings. In hydraulic and water resources engineering, you might design, construct, or maintain facilities related to the quality and quantity of water, flood prevention, wastewater treatment, and waterfront erosion protection. As a professional in transportation engineering, your purpose is to move people and things in a safe and efficient manner locally and through mass transportation systems. Transportation facilities include highways, airfields, railroads, and seaports. Several courses are also offered in construction engineering. Instructional equipment includes the MTS structures and material testing systems with computer control for data acquisition and analysis, equipment for in situ and laboratory measurements of engineering properties of soils and rocks, including triaxial, bearing, and shear testing equipment and seismographs; and a self-contained glass-sided tilting flume for investigations of flow phenomena and sediment transport. A complete stand-alone automated data acquisition and analysis system is available for undergraduate student laboratory work and research. A fully equipped water quality testing lab as well as portable field testing kits are used both for classroom teaching as well as for student research and design projects. Students have access to a large number and variety of computer systems. A network of nearly 700 computing devices is available for the academic and research efforts of the college. The college computers are connected to a high-speed, switched, fiber-optic LAN and to the Internet via the Florida State University connection to the NSF v BNS network. Other nearby resources include the Department of Scientific Computing. Additional information about the department can be obtained from the college home page: eng.famu.fsu.edu. Programs Offered The department offers a program of study for the Bachelor of Science (BS) in civil engineering, which is accredited by ABET, Inc, 111 Market Place, Suite 1050, Baltimore, MD, 21202-4012, phone (410) 347-7700. The civil engineering major is broad-based, emphasizing all aspects of civil engineering practice, including structural geotechnical, construction, transportation, hydraulics, water resources, and environmental engineering. Within the civil engineering program, the environmental engineering major is a course of study that focuses primarily on environmental engineering, hydraulics, hydrology, water resources, and water quality. Regardless of focus, all students learn to apply state-of-the-art technologies to solve problems in these areas. The department offers graduate programs leading to Master’s and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees in civil engineering. In addition to the thesis-based Master or Science (MS) degree, a courses-only Master of Engineering (MEng) option is available. These programs provide areas of concentration in structural, geotechnical, environmental/water resources, construction/infrastructure, and transportation engineering. Admission to graduate programs requires a 3.0 grade point average (GPA) in the last two years of undergraduate school and an acceptable score on the graduate record exam (GRE). For the MEng option, evidence of passing the NCEES Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) or Principles and Practice of Engineering (PE) exam or holding PE licensure may be used in lieu of the GRE. For more details, refer to the Graduate Bulletin or the department website at https://www.eng.famu.fsu.edu/cee. B.S.–M.Eng. Pathway This pathway provides academically talented undergraduate students an opportunity to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in 5 years. Upon approval, this pathway allows 6 graduate hours to be counted toward both an undergraduate and graduate degree programs. The student will earn the Bachelor of Science (BS) degree upon completion of the undergraduate program and the Master of Engineering (MEng) degree upon completion of the graduate program. The program requirements for the graduate portion of this pathway are identical to the M.Eng. program requirements. The only difference is that the pathway students take 24 hours of coursework instead of 30 hours, because 6 graduate hours were already taken while getting the undergraduate degree. To apply, students in Term 5 or 6 of their undergraduate program (the Junior year) according to the CEE Undergraduate Academic Map should submit an on-line application to the combined degree pathway. An overall GPA of 3.2 as well as area-specific requirements must be met. During the last year as an undergraduate, the student applies to the Master of Engineering program. The admission requirements for this step are identical to the master’s admission requirements shown earlier. Additional information and the online application are available at eng.famu.fsu.edu/cee/bs-meng-pathway. Mission The mission of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering is to teach the fundamentals of civil engineering science, analysis, design, and management in order to empower students to assume careers as professional engineers; to conduct basic and applied research in order to improve the state of knowledge of civil engineering; to serve as a source of information and advice to the community on engineering matters; and to assist in the continuing education of professional engineers and other interested individuals. The department has a special mission to provide an opportunity for a civil engineering education for under-represented groups in the profession. Program Educational Objectives Consistent with the mission and goals of the FAMU-FSU College of Engineering, and based upon the input and needs of its constituents, the Civil Engineering program will produce graduates who achieve the following program educational objectives (PEOs) several years after graduation: Progress in successful professional careers in civil and environmental engineering or related fields, and/or enroll in studies at the graduate level; Apply engineering principles to address the needs of society, including sustainability, and practice effective management, communication, and leadership skills; Respond to the rapid pace of change in civil and environmental engineering by becoming professionally licensed, engaging in ongoing continuing education, and participating in professional society activities; and Contribute to workforce diversity as members and leaders of multi-disciplinary teams. Student Learning Outcomes By the time students graduate from the Civil Engineering program, they will attain the following outcomes and attributes: An ability to identify, formulate, and solve civil engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics; An ability to apply both analysis and synthesis in the engineering design process, resulting in designs that meet desired needs; An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions; An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences; An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts; An ability to recognize the ongoing need for additional knowledge and locate, evaluate, integrate, and apply this knowledge appropriately; An ability to function effectively on teams that establish goals, plan tasks, meet deadlines, and analyze risk and uncertainty. Engineering Design Following engineering design criteria established by ABET, the civil engineering curricula provide excellent design experiences for students. The faculty of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering has carefully integrated design components into the curriculum with increased complexity as students progress toward graduation. These design components offer opportunities for students to work individually and in teams on meaningful engineering design experiences building upon the fundamental concepts of mathematics, basic sciences, humanities, social sciences, engineering topics, and oral and written communication skills. Design components in engineering coursework help students develop an appreciation for and apply the knowledge of the wide variety of courses they have studied. Consequently, they participate in meaningful solutions and effective design development for practical engineering problems. The majority of the design experiences are integrated into junior and senior level courses. In both majors, CGN 4800, Senior Design I, and CGN 4802, Senior Design II, provide significant, culminating design experiences in which students working in interdisciplinary teams apply realistic constraints to an actual engineering scenario. Additional information about design credits may be obtained from departmental brochures and by contacting faculty advisors at the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in civil and environmental engineering satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CEG 2202L, Introduction to Geomatics Engineering Lab. Oral Communication Competency If a grade of “C” or better is earned in the following two courses, the Oral Communication Competency requirement as defined in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” section of this General Bulletin will be satisfied. If the oral communication competency requirement of either course is not met, the student will not earn an overall grade of “C” or better in the course, regardless of how well the student performs in the remaining portions of the course. CGN 4800 Senior Design I (3) CGN 4802 Senior Design II (3) UPPER DIVISION WRITING The Upper Division Writing (UDW) requirement at FSU is met by CGN 4800 Senior Design I, which is a required course for Civil Engineering and Environmental Engineering majors. To fulfill FSU’s Upper-Division Writing requirement, the student must earn a “C” or higher in the course and earn at least a “C” average on the required writing assignments. If the student does not earn a “C-” or higher in the required writing assignments, the student will not earn an overall grade of “C” or higher in the course, no matter how well the student performs in the remaining portion of the course. Scholarship in practice/formative experience CGN 4800 Senior Design 1, which is a required course for Civil and Environmental Engineering majors, has been approved as meeting the Scholarship-in-Practice requirement, and thus is designed to help the student become a critical thinker, a creative user of knowledge, and an independent learner. In order to fulfill FSU’s Scholarship-in-Practice requirement, the student must earn a “C” or higher in the course. CGN 4802 Senior Design II, which is a required course for Civil Engineering and Environmental Engineering majors, has been approved to meet FSU’s Liberal Studies Formative Experience requirement and develops the student’s ability to develop and use knowledge by engaging in a hands-on experience outside of the classroom. To fulfill FSU’s FE requirement, the student must earn a “C” or higher in the course. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Civil Engineering MAC X311 or MAC X281 MAC X312 or MAC X282 MAC X313 or MAC X283 MAP X302 or MAP X305 CHM X045/X045L or CHM X045C, or CHS X440/X440L PHY X048/X048L or PHY X048C, or PHY X043 and PHY X048L, or PHYX041 and PHYX048L PHY X049/X049L or PHY X049C, or PHY X044 and PHY X049L, or PHYX042 and PHYX049L Requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering: Civil Engineering Major In addition to college requirements, a candidate for the BS degree in civil engineering will be expected to successfully complete the following requirements: Mathematics and Basic Engineering Sciences CEG 2202 Introduction to Geomatics Engineering (3) CEG 2202L Introduction to Geomatics Engineering Lab (1) EGM 3512 Engineering Mechanics (4) EGN 1004L First Year Engineering Lab (1) EGN 3331 Strength of Materials (3) EGN 3613 Principles of Engineering Economy (2) EEL 3003 Introduction to Electrical Engineering (3) or EML 3100 Thermodynamics (2) STA 2122 Introduction to Applied Statistics (3) or STA 3032 Applied Statistics for Engineers and Scientists (3) or STA 2023 Fundamental Business Statistics (3) Note: The 128 credit hours required for CEE degrees is calculated using EEL 3003. Students who take EML 3100 should see their advisor or academic coordinator to ensure that their degree will be a minimum of 128 credit hours total. Group A Science Elective: An additional three-credit hour science elective course is required to allow students to develop increased breadth in the basic sciences, while completing existing curricular requirements. Students should select one course from the following group. BSC 2010 Biological Science (3) GLY 1030 Environmental Issues in Geology (3) GLY 2010C Physical Geology (4) MET 2700 General Meteorology (3) PCB 3043 General Ecology (3) OCE 4008 Principles of Oceanography (3) Civil Engineering Core Courses CCE 3101 Construction Materials (3) CEG 3011 Soil Mechanics (3) CES 3100 Structural Analysis (4) CGN 3326 CE Graphics & Design Tools (3) CGN 3508L Civil Engineering Materials Laboratory (1) CWR 3200L Environmental and Hydraulic Engineering Laboratory (1) CWR 3201 Hydraulics (3) EES 3040 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (3) TTE 3004 Transportation Engineering (3) Civil Engineering Design and Professional Courses Students must take the courses in the following areas plus three additional electives* for a total of twenty-one hours credit. To meet the requirement, students may select elective courses (as indicated below) to specialize their degree program to suit their individual objectives. Structures: CES 4605 Steel Design (3) or CES 4702 Concrete Design (3) Geotechnical: CEG 4801 Geotechnical Design (3) Construction/Transportation: CCE 4XXX Construction elective (3) or TTE 4XXX Transportation elective (3) Environmental/Water Resources: ENV 4XXX Environmental Engineering (3) or CWR 4XXX Hydraulics, Hydrology, or Water Resources elective (3) Additional Electives Group B Electives (9 credits total) Engineering/Math/Science Elective: Any three 4000-level courses (CCE 4XXX, CEG 4XXX, CES 4XXX, approved or selected CGN 4930 courses, CWR 4XXX, ENV 4XXX, TTE 4XXX) offered by the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering that is not being used to meet another requirement. Specified 3000- or 4000-level courses selected from engineering, math, or science departments may be used for one Group B elective. See department for a list of approved Group B electives. Group C Elective (3 credits) Professional/Technical Elective: A course outside of the CEE department emphasizing professional development, computing, and other professional/technical skills. See department for a current list of approved Group C electives. Major Design Experience CGN 4800 Senior Design Project I (3) CGN 4802 Senior Design Project II (3) Requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering: Environmental Engineering Major In addition to college requirements, a candidate for the Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in civil engineering with a major in environmental engineering will be expected to successfully complete the following course requirements. Mathematics and Basic Engineering Sciences CEG 2202 Introduction to Geomatics Engineering (3) CEG 2202L Introduction to Geomatics Engineering Lab (1) CHM 1046/L General Chemistry II and Laboratory (4) or MCB 2004 Microbiology for Health Services and Laboratory (4) EGM 3512 Engineering Mechanics (4) EGN 1004L First Year Engineering Lab (1) EGN 3331 Strength of Materials (3) EGN 3613 Principles of Engineering Economy (2) EML 3100 Thermodynamics (2) or EEL 3003 Introduction to Electrical Engineering (3) STA 2122 Introduction to Applied Statistics (3) or STA 3023 Applied Statistics for Engineers and Scientists (3) or STA 2023 Fundamental Business Statistics (3) Note: The 128 credit hours required for CEE degrees is calculated using EEL 3003. Students who take EML 3100 should see their advisor or academic coordinator to ensure that their degree will be a minimum of 128 credit hours total. Group A Science Elective: An additional three-credit hour science elective course is required to allow students to develop increased breadth in the basic sciences, while completing existing curricular requirements. Students should select one course from the following group. BSC 2010 Biological Science (3) GLY 1030 Environmental Issues in Geology (3) GLY 2010C Physical Geology (4) MET 2700 General Meteorology (3) PCB 3043 General Ecology (3) OCE 4008 Principles of Oceanography (3) Environmental Engineering Core Courses CCE 3101 Construction Materials (3) CEG 3011 Soil Mechanics (3) CGN 3326 CE Graphics & Design Tools (3) CGN 3508L Civil Engineering Materials Laboratory (1) CWR 3200L Environmental and Hydraulic Engineering Laboratory (1) CWR 3201 Hydraulics (3) EES 3040 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (3) TTE 3004 Transportation Engineering (3) Environmental Engineering Design and Professional Courses Students are required to take courses in the following areas plus three additional electives for a total of twenty-one credit hours. To meet the requirement, students may select elective courses (as indicated below) to specialize their degree program to suit their individual objectives. Environmental: ENV 4XXX Environmental Engineering elective (3) Water Resources: CWR 4XXX Water Resources, Hydraulics or Hydrology elective (3) Geotechnical: CEG 4801 Geotechnical Design (3) Construction /Transportation: TTE 4XXX Transportation elective (3) OR CCE 4XXX Construction elective (3) Additional Electives Group B Electives (9 credits total) Engineering/Math/Science Elective: Any three 4000-level courses (CCE 4XXX, CEG 4XXX, CES 4XXX, approved or selected CGN 4930 courses, CWR 4XXX, ENV 4XXX, TTE 4XXX) offered by the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering that is not being used to meet another requirement. Specified 3000- or 4000-level courses selected from engineering, math, or science departments may be used for one Group B elective. See department for a list of approved Group B electives. Group C Elective (3 credits) Professional/Technical Elective: A course outside of the CEE department emphasizing professional development, computing, and other professional/technical skills. See department for a current list of approved Group C electives. Major Design Experience CGN 4800 Senior Design Project I (3) CGN 4802 Senior Design Project II (3) Department Policies Pre-Engineering students must adhere to the policies set by the College of Engineering, including standards on declaring Civil Engineering as a major. Students must achieve a grade of “C–” or better in all transfer courses and in all courses that are prerequisites to any required or elective engineering course. In addition, students are required to earn a “C–” or better in all engineering courses that apply toward the degree. In extenuating circumstances, a maximum of one “D” may be waived. The waiver shall not be applied to Senior Design, nor to a course that is a prerequisite for a course in the CEE department. Pre/Corequisite Course Policy It is the policy of Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering that a student must receive grades of “C–” or better in all prerequisite courses prior to enrolling in a CEE course. Concurrent registration in a course and its prerequisites is not allowed. All prerequisites of the prerequisite course must be completed. Failure to abide by this policy can result in the cancellation of your enrollment in any course at any time during the semester and with no refund of fees. Corequisite courses must be taken concurrently or prior to enrolling in the course. Registering for and remaining in a course without having completed all pre- and corequisite courses as well as all their prerequisites can result in the Department or the College of Engineering administratively canceling your course enrollment at any time during the semester and with no refund of fees. Changes to prerequisites will be accompanied by a phase-in period: in such cases the CEE undergraduate committee shall serve as the authority regarding the implementation of such changes. Course Repeat Policy Criteria A student in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering will be placed on probationary status if the student falls into any of the following situations: Accrued two grades below “C–” in a single engineering course that is required under his/her curriculum, or in MAC 2313, MAP 3305/2302, or PHY 2049C, or CHM 1045/1046, or in any Group A, B, C, D Electives. Accrued a total of three grades below “C–” in all engineering courses that are required under his/her curriculum, MAC 2313, MAP 3305/2302, and PHY 2049C, or CHM 1045/1046, or in any Group A, B, C, D Electives. Has an overall GPA below 2.0 Consequences A student who meets the above criteria will be placed on academic probation during the subsequent semester and will be required to sign an academic probation/readmit contract with the department. A student may not graduate while on probation. Reinstatement To be reinstated, the following conditions must be met: The student will have one semester (the probationary semester) to raise his/her GPA above 2.0 The student must retake all courses that were the cause for probation according to an agreed upon schedule (during the probationary semester, if available) and achieve a grade of “C–” or better. Dismissal A student on probation will be permanently dismissed from the CEE program and will not be eligible for further reinstatement upon the following conditions: If a student who is on probation does not raise his/her GPA above 2.0 and/or achieve a grade of “C–” or better in all courses taken during the probationary semester. If a student who has been reinstated to the program subsequently falls below an overall GPA of 2.0 and/or fails to achieve a grade of “C–” or better in any math, science, or engineering course. A student who has already reached or exceeded the course repeat limits stated above prior to declaring the civil or environmental major is considered on reinstatement and must achieve a grade of “C–” or better in all subsequent courses to avoid permanent dismissal. Fundamentals of Engineering Exam All undergraduate students are strongly encouraged to take the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam in the civil engineering discipline during their senior year. Honors in the Major The Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering offers Honors in the Major to encourage students to undertake independent and original research to enhance their undergraduate experience. For requirements and more information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Requirements for a Minor in Environmental Engineering Science An optional minor in environmental engineering science requires a minimum of twelve semester hours of coursework in environmental engineering, including EES 3040 and ENV 4001 plus six additional hours in courses with prefixes EES or ENV at the 3000 level or above, with no more than one of the following courses counting towards the minor: ENV 4341, ENV 4611. Students must consult with the department and obtain written approval before taking courses towards the minor. Students also must satisfy prerequisites before enrolling in any environmental engineering course. Grades of “C–” or better must be earned in each course accepted for minor credit. If an environmental engineering science minor is combined with a civil engineering major, EES 3040, and one other course, up to six credits total may count toward both the major and the minor. Definition of Prefixes CCE—Civil Construction Engineering CEG—Civil Geotechnical Engineering CES—Civil Engineering Structures CGN—Civil Engineering CWR—Civil Water Resources EES—Environmental Engineering Science EGM—Engineering Science EGN—Engineering: General ENV—Engineering: Environmental TTE—Transportation Engineering Undergraduate Courses CCE 3101. Construction Materials (3). Prerequisite: EGN 3331 (C- or better). This course covers properties and characteristics of construction materials for civil and highway engineering, metals, aggregates, cements, timber, concrete, and asphalt. CCE 4004. Construction Engineering (3). Prerequisites: CCE 3101 and EGN 3613. This course covers theories, principles, and applications of construction engineering professionalism and ethics. Emphasis is placed on construction pre-design, planning, scheduling, contracts and specification, construction methods, and equipment and safety. CCE 4014. Construction Cost Estimating (3). Prerequisites: CCE 3101 and EGN 3613. This course covers construction contracts, organization, and cost accounting systems; preliminary cost estimation, and cost indices; estimating material, labor, and equipment costs; construction bidding practices, and bid proposals; and project budgeting and cost systems. CCE 4031. Construction Planning and Scheduling (3). Prerequisite: CCE 3101. This course includes topics such as: planning, basic arrow diagramming, basic precedence diagramming, establishing activity duration, scheduling computations, bar charts, project controls, overlapping networks, resource leveling, and program evaluation review technique (PERT). CEG 2202. Introduction to Geomatics Engineering (3). Prerequisite: MAC 2311. Corequisite: CEG 2202L. Pre- or corequisite: EGN 2123. This course explores methods and procedures of surface mapping and subsurface sectioning including distance measurements, traverse computations and topographic mapping, and Global Positioning Systems. Use of field equipment and procedures to measure distances, elevations, angles, and perform complete surveys. CEG 2202L. Introduction to Geomatics Engineering Lab (1). Corequisite: CEG 2202. Pre- or corequisite: EGN 2123. This course explores methods and procedures of surface mapping and subsurface sectioning including distance, measurements, traverse computations and topographic mapping, and Global Positioning Systems. Use of field equipment and procedures to measure distances, elevations, angles, and perform complete surveys. Computer Aided Design (CAD) laboratory for basic engineering drafting. CEG 3011. Soil Mechanics (3). Pre- or corequisite: EGN 3331 (C- or better). This course covers physical, index, hydraulic and mechanical properties of soils. Topics include classification, compaction, stress distribution, permeability and seepage, consolidation settlement, and shear strength of soil. CEG 4111. Foundation Engineering (3). Prerequisite: CEG 3011. This course covers the design of spread footing, pile and caisson foundations, as well as retaining and waterfront structures. The course offers an investigation of slope stability and a choice between alternative methods of foundation design. CEG 4701. Environmental Geotechnics (3). Prerequisite: CEG 3011. This course covers the geotechnical aspects of waste containment and storage. Topics include aspects of design, construction, and performance of earthen structures for storing or disposing waste of remediation contaminated sites. CEG 4801. Geotechnical Design (3). Prerequisite: CEG 3011. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L.This course covers geotechnical investigation, analysis, and design of different geotechnical structures, including earth retaining structures, slopes and embankments, earthwork with geosynthetics, as well as shallow foundations. CES 3100. Structural Analysis (4). Prerequisite: EGM 3512. Corequisites: EGN 3331 and either MAP 2302 or MAP 3305. This course covers loads, load paths, as well as advanced topics on shear and bending moment, including frames and superposition. Additional topics include influence lines, deflection of determinate structures, as well as indeterminate analysis methods including flexibility, slope-deflection, moment distribution, and stiffness methods. CES 4101. Advanced Structural Analysis (3). Prerequisites: CES 3100 and EGN 3331. This course covers matrix algebra review, direct stiffness method for truss analysis, computer applications, statically indeterminate structures, slope-deflection and moment distribution methods, as well as computer modeling and analysis of structures using commercial FE codes. CES 4605. Steel Design (3). Prerequisites: CES 3100 and EGN 3331. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L. This course covers the design of tension, compression, and flexural steel members. The course also covers the design of bolted and welded connections for steel members, according to AISC specifications. CES 4702. Concrete Design (3). Prerequisites: CES 3100 and EGN 3331. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L. This course covers the design of reinforced concrete structures using current ACI specifications and building codes. Topics include flexural design of reinforced concrete beams, flanged beams, and one-way slabs. The course also presents column design, shear reinforcement design, bond and anchorage, and control of deflections and cracks. CES 4711. Prestressed Concrete (3). Prerequisites: CES 3100 and EGN 3331. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L. This course covers the behavior and design of prestressed concrete structures. Topics include the design of prestressed concrete beams for flexure and shear, the design of slabs, prestressing losses, serviceability of prestressed concrete members, and precast members. CES 4800. Timber Design (3). Prerequisites: CES 3100 and EGN 3331. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L. This course covers the design of basic timber structures including beams, columns, walls, and diaphragms – all using NDS specifications. CES 4830. Masonry Design (3). Prerequisites: CES 3100 and EGN 3331. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L. This course covers the design of basic reinforced masonry structures including walls, columns, and foundations. SBC and code applications are used. CGN 2327L. Civil Engineering Graphic Lab (1). Prerequisite: EGN 2123. This course is the lab section of the Computer Graphics for Engineers general course. This lab provides hands-on experience in utilizing the latest version of AutoCAD and MicroStation for technical drawing typical of the design projects in civil and environmental engineering. CGN 3145. Blending STEM and Public Policy (3). This course is thematically driven with respect to the intersection of STEM and social sciences pertaining to sustainability within the themes of: (1) food, (2) water, (3) energy, and (4) climate change. Within each area, students are introduced to core theoretical concepts, historical and contemporary issues, public policy examples, institutions, personalities, geographies, governmental and non-governmental actors, and communities. CGN 3326. CE Graphics & Design Tools (3). Prerequisites: CEG 2202 & Lab. This course covers intermediate level computer-aided drafting and design (CADD) methods, rapid sketching, and civil engineering-specific mathematical skills and computational tools. CGN 3508L. Civil Engineering Materials Laboratory (1). Prerequisite: EGN 3331. Pre- or corequisite: CEG 3011 or CCE 3101. This course is a study of the principal construction materials used in civil engineering practice (soils, concrete, timber, steel, etc.) with special attention to measuring mechanical properties through laboratory testing according to ASTM standards. Hands-on experience in conducting tests, including preparation and instrumentation of test specimens, test execution, data acquisition, and interpretation of test results using statistical analysis. CGN 4800. Senior Design I (3). Prerequisite: Senior standing. Pre- or corequisite: CEG 2202L. This course covers issues relevant to the design and construction of engineering projects; professional ethics; project planning and scheduling; design under engineering and societal constraints; importance of licensure and continuing education; as well as oral and written communication issues. Inter- or multidisciplinary teams prepare formal proposals addressing engineering challenges; the full design of these proposals is completed during the following semester in the CGN 4802, Senior Design II course. CGN 4802. Senior Design II (3). Prerequisites: CGN 4800 and in last full semester of CEE program. This course is a capstone senior-level design course integrating the knowledge and skills gained in undergraduate studies in civil and environmental engineering. The course involves the completion of a team-based interdisciplinary design project started in Senior Design I. This project includes industry and professional participation. CGN 4906r. Honors Work in Civil and Environmental Engineering (1–6). Prerequisite: Admission to the honors program. This course is for faculty-directed independent research conducted by students in the honors program. Research is conducted on a topic agreed upon by the student and a faculty mentor and relevant to civil and/or environmental engineering. Variable credit is given consistent with the nature and scope of the research project to be conducted. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours. CGN 4930r. Special Topics (1–3). Prerequisites vary. This course covers topics in civil and environmental engineering, with an emphasis on recent developments. Topics and credit may vary. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. May be repeated within the same term. CWR 3200L. Environmental and Hydraulic Engineering Laboratory (1). Pre- or corequisite: EES 3040 or CWR 3201. This course is a hands-on introduction to environmental and hydraulic engineering topics. Physical experiments that demonstrate fundamental concepts such as hydrostatics, pipe flow, open channel flow, water quality, and water treatment processes are performed. CWR 3201. Hydraulics (3). Prerequisite: EGM 3512 (C- or better). This course covers fundamental concepts of fluid properties, hydrostatics, kinematics, ideal flow viscous effects, transport phenomena; drag, laminar, and turbulent flow in pipes and channels; and dimensional analysis. CWR 4101. Engineering Hydrology (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3201 and CWR 3200L. This course covers the processes of the hydrologic cycle, hydrologic analyses for the planning and design of water management systems, and the use of application program packages. CWR 4120. Groundwater Hydrology (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3201 and EES 3040. This course examines the fundamentals of groundwater flow and contaminant transport. Topics include: Darcy’s law, flow nets, mass conservation, heterogeneity and anisotropy, storage properties, 3-D equation of groundwater flow, regional circulation, unsaturated flow, recharge, stream-aquifer interaction, well hydraulics, slug test analyses, and contaminant transport processes. CWR 4202. Hydraulic Engineering I (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3201 and CWR 3200L. This course covers principles of hydrology and hydraulics as they apply to the design of water supply, urban drainage, flood control, and hydraulic energy-conversion systems. Students use computer-aided design to devise hydraulics systems. CWR 4203. Hydraulic Engineering II (3). Prerequisite: CWR 3201. This course covers methods for analyzing a broad range of unsteady flow conditions and for designing facilities to cope with resulting problems. Based on these methods, students learn to apply computer programs to practical water distribution and open-channel systems. CWR 4540. Water Resources Engineering (3). Prerequisite: CWR 3201. This course offers a systems approach to complex water resources problems as well as a systems analysis of water resources operations, design, and planning. CWR 4822. Coastal and Estuarine Hydraulics (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3201 and MAC 2313. This course covers coastal hydraulic principles and waves in estuaries and coastal oceans, wave properties and wave forces on coastal structures, tidal motions, mixing and transport in estuaries, and coastal -engineering analysis. EES 3040. Introduction to Environmental Engineering (3). Prerequisites: CHM 1045, CHM 1045L, MAC 2311, and PHY 2048C. This course is a broad introduction to environmental engineering topics. Includes fundamental concepts in mass balance, water quality, water and wastewater treatment, air quality, and solid/hazardous waste management, with considerations to environmental and societal impacts, as well as technical limitations. This course serves as the foundation for all other environmental engineering courses. EGM 3512. Engineering Mechanics (4). Prerequisites: MAC 2312 and PHY 2048. Corequisite: MAC 2313. This course covers statics and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Topics include free-body diagrams, couples, resultants, equilibrium of particles and rigid bodies in two and three dimensions, and forces in trusses, frames, and machines. Other topics include centroids, centers of mass, internal shear forces and bending moments in beams, shear and moment diagrams, friction, area moments of inertia, parallel axis theorem, work/energy, as well as impulse and momentum methods. EGN 3331. Strength of Materials (3). Prerequisite: EGM 3512. This course covers axial, torsional, and flexural stresses and strains, as well as normal and shear stress. Topics include Mohr’s circle, transformation of stress, safety factors, and engineering applications. EGN 4460. Applied Simulation Modeling of Transportation Systems (3). This course is an overview of simulation as a modeling approach, analysis of complex transportation systems using simulation, evaluation of distribution/transportation processes, discrete/continuous/hybrid simulation, disruptive simulation, development of custom simulation logics, programming within simulation, scenario analysis automation. EGN 4906r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). Prerequisites: EES 3040 and EES 3040L. Corequisite: CWR 4202. This course is directed special project/research in an area of civil engineering science or design not covered in the curriculum. May be repeated to a maximum of three semester hours. ENV 4001. Environmental Engineering (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3200L, CWR 3201, and EES 3040. This course covers the design of water and wastewater treatment plants, wastewater collection systems, air and water pollution control, as well as solid waste management and contemporary environmental issues. ENV 4022. Remediation Engineering (3). Prerequisite: ENV 4001. This course reviews various innovative remediation technologies used for cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater at a site such as air sparging, soil vapor extraction, reactive walls, reactive zones, stabilization technologies, as well as hydraulic and pneumatic fracturing pump-and-treat systems. ENV 4031. Applied Environmental Engineering Microbiology (3). Prerequisite: ENV 4001. This course surveys environmentally important microbes and their roles in the environmental restoration processes. Major topics include basics of microbiology, stoichiometry and bacterial energetics; bioremediation and other environmental microbiology applications; as well as detoxification of hazardous chemicals. ENV 4041. Environmental Systems Analysis (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3200L, EES 3040, and either MAP 3305 or MAP 2302. This course covers systems analysis techniques applied to the solution of environmental problems, with particular emphasis on linear and dynamic programming. ENV 4053. Chemical Fate and Transport in the Environment (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3201, EES 3040, and either MAP 3305 or MAP 2302. This course covers the processes of pollutant transport and transformation in and between air, water, and soil or sediments. Topics include advection, dispersion, diffusion, sorption, degradation, and phase-change processes. ENV 4341. Solid and Hazardous Waste Engineering (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3200L and EES 3040. This course covers definitions and characteristics of solid and hazardous wastes. Topics include history, growth, and magnitude of the problem; legislative, regulatory, and technical aspects of waste generation, storage, collection, transportation, processing, transformation, and disposal; design of waste minimization and recycling programs; and case studies of waste management. ENV 4405. Water Reuse Engineering (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3200L and EES 3040. This course covers sources of water for reuse, treatment processes and systems, monitoring and control instrumentation, health and social aspects, and design of facilities/systems. ENV 4417. Applied Environmental Engineering Chemistry (3). Pre- or corequisite: ENV 4001. This course covers applications of fundamental principles from general, organic and biological chemistry, to major environmental engineering processes. Emphasis is placed on the chemistry of water treatment. ENV 4500. Environmental Unit Processes and Operations (3). Pre- or corequisite: ENV 4001. This course covers the operational and design features of the physical, chemical, thermal, and biological treatments used in engineering for water and wastewater treatment and the management of solid and hazardous waste. ENV 4561. Design of Water Quality Management Facilities (3). Prerequisite: ENV 4001. This course covers analysis of operations, processes, and systems used in the design of facilities for maintaining water supply quality, wastewater control, and aquatic pollution control. Design of small and decentralized wastewater management systems. ENV 4611. Environmental Impact Analysis (3). Prerequisites: CWR 3200L and EES 3040. This course covers topics such as analysis of various measures of environmental quality, impact of human activity on water, land, and air resources, and benefit-cost analysis in environmental-impact assessment. TTE 3004. Transportation Engineering (3). Prerequisites: CEG 2202, CEG 2202L, and STA 2122 or equivalent. This course is an introductory study of transportation engineering in the United States with special emphasis on highway and traffic engineering, planning and design, construction, operation, management, and safety. TTE 4201. Traffic Engineering (3). Prerequisite: TTE 3004. This course covers nature, characteristics, and theories of traffic problems. Topics include traffic survey procedures, origin-destination studies, as well as an introduction to theory and design of automatic control of traffic systems. TTE 4250. Traffic Operations (3). Prerequisite: TTE 3004. This course covers operation of transportation systems, monitoring, regulation, and control traffic. TTE 4774. Freight Terminals and Distribution Facilities (3). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course covers a general overview of passenger and freight transport, an overview of operations within different types of freight transportation terminals: marine terminals (container, dry bulk, liquid bulk), cross-docking facilities, warehouses, rail terminals, freight airport terminals, and other freight transportation facilities. The course analyzes decision problems within freight terminals, operations optimization, maximization of the terminal throughput and associated monetary benefits. Students discuss future needs of freight transportation. TTE 4804. Highway Geometric Design (3). Prerequisite: TTE 3004. This course covers principles and procedures for the geometric design of highways and streets, consideration of traffic, land use, and aesthetic factors. TTE 4830. Hot Mix Asphalt Mixture Design (3). Prerequisite: CCE 3101. Pre- or corequisite: CGN 3508L. This course covers aggregate properties and tests, tests of asphalt and asphalt concrete mixes, fundamental engineering characteristics of hot-mix asphalt concrete, mix design methods for asphalt concrete, as well as Superpave-mix design methodology and production and placement of hot-mix asphalt. Graduate Courses CCE 5035. Construction Planning and Scheduling (3). CCE 5036. Project Controls in Construction (3). CCE 5212. Sustainable and Green Construction (3). CCE 5510. Computer Applications in Construction (3). CEG 5015. Advanced Soil Mechanics (3). CEG 5115. Foundation Engineering (3). CEG 5127. Highway and Airport Pavement Design (3). CEG 5515. Earth Retaining Systems and Slope Design (3). CEG 5705. Environmental Geotechnics (3). CES 5105. Advanced Mechanics of Materials (3). CES 5106r. Advanced Structural Analysis (3). CES 5144. Matrix Methods for Structural Analysis (3). CES 5209. Structural Dynamics (3). CES 5218. Fundamentals of Structural Stability Theory (3). CES 5325. Bridge Engineering (3). CES 5585. Wind Engineering (3). CES 5606. Advanced Steel Design (3). CES 5706. Advanced Reinforced Concrete Design (3). CES 5715. Prestressed Concrete (3). CES 5801. Structural Design of Wood Structures (3). CES 5835. Design of Masonry Structures (3). CES 5845. Composites in Civil Engineering (3). CES 6116. Finite Element Methods (3). CGN 5307. Infrastructure System of Systems Analysis and Planning (3). CGN 5310. Engineering Data Systems (3). CGN 5615. Infrastructure Engineering and Management (3). CGN 5825. Site Development (3). CGN 5905r. Directed Individual Study (1–6). (S/U grade only.) CGN 5910r. Supervised Research (1–5). (S/U grade only.) CGN 5930r. Special Topics (1–6). CGN 5935. Civil Engineering Seminar (0). (S/U grade only.) CGN 5971r. Master’s Thesis Research (1–12). (S/U grade only). CGN 6942. Supervised Teaching (3). (S/U grade only.) CGN 6960r. Preliminary Exam Preparation (1-9). (S/U grade only.) CWR 5125. Groundwater Hydrology (3). CWR 5205. Hydraulic Engineering II (3). CWR 5635. Water Resources Planning and Management (3). CWR 5824. Coastal and Estuarine Hydraulics (3). EGN 5458. Statistical Applications for Engineers (3). EGN 5465. Applied Simulation Modeling of Transportation Systems (3). EGN 5480. Metaheuristics and Hybrid Algorithms (3). EGN 5950. Research Methods in Engineering (3). ENV 5028. Remediation Engineering (3). ENV 5030. Applied Environmental Engineering Microbiology (3). ENV 5045. Environmental Systems Analysis (3). ENV 5055. Chemical Fate and Transport in the Environment (3). ENV 5076. Environmental Law for Engineers and Scientists (3). ENV 5105. Air Pollution Control (3). ENV 5407. Water Reuse Engineering (3). ENV 5419. Applied Environmental Engineering Chemistry (3). ENV 5504. Environmental Engineering Processes and Operations (3). ENV 5565. Design of Water Quality Management Facilities (3). ENV 5615. Environmental Impact Analysis (3). ENV 5617. Environmental Engineering Sustainability (3). TTE 5074. Freight Terminals and Distribution Facilities (3). TTE 5205. Traffic Engineering (3). TTE 5206. Advanced Traffic Flow Analysis (3). TTE 5256. Traffic Operations (3). TTE 5270. Intelligent Transportation Systems (3). TTE 5305. Transportation Systems Analysis (3). TTE 5501. Transportation Economics (3). TTE 5805. Highway Geometric Design (3). For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright