Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Grades + Transcripts The Office of the University Registrar provides official transcripts bearing the Cornell University seal and the signature of the University Registrar. The University maintains a single transcript for all students reflecting all courses taken at Cornell, including summer, extramural, undergraduate, professional, and graduate courses. All requests must be submitted by the student or former student. Requests submitted by parents or any unauthorized parties will not be honored. Paper or electronic transcripts can be ordered anytime by current or former students. Grades and degrees are posted on your record as they are received. If you wish to see your grades by semester, you can view and print them through Student Center. Transcript Notation For conduct matters adjudicated under the Campus Code of Conduct and the Procedures for the Resolution of Reports Against Students Under Policy 6.4, the following will result in a permanent transcript notation: Dismissal after a finding of responsibility, Suspension after a finding of responsibility, and Withdrawal from the institution while such a matter is pending. A finding of responsibility is a finding made by an appropriate university official or officials in a university proceeding, including as a part of an agreement with the student(s) resolving the conduct matter. If the underlying finding of responsibility is vacated for any reason the transcript notation will be removed. Students may submit a written application requesting that a suspension notation be removed to the Office of the Judicial Administrator. Suspension notations will remain in place for at least one year following the completion of a suspension and applications for removal will not be accepted prior to this minimum time period. Transcript notations after dismissal or withdrawal are not eligible for removal. Applications for removal of a suspension notation will be reviewed by the Vice President for Student and Campus Life (VP SCL) or designee. Applications must be 4,000 words or less and include a personal statement in addition to any other information, letters, and/or documentation the student wishes to be considered by the VP SCL or designee. The VP SCL or designee will set a reasonable timeline for handling the application for removal. If an application for removal is denied, the applicant may submit a second application for removal no earlier than six months after denial for the first application. Any subsequent applications by that individual will not be considered. Removal of a suspension notation will have no impact on retention of the underlying disciplinary record pursuant to University Policy 4.7, Retention of University Records and disciplinary record reporting on background checks or other education record requests. The university may also note transcripts pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Code of Academic Integrity. The university will temporarily note a transcript where a student has been temporarily suspended, when a conduct matter is pending as permitted under applicable policies or procedures, and as otherwise permitted under applicable policies or procedures. Such a temporary notation is not subject to any appeal procedures and will be removed upon resolution of the underlying matter. A permanent notation may be made, as set forth above, upon resolution of the conduct matter. Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Make an Appointment or Chat Student Center Course History Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University