Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Enrollment New Students Overview Add/Drop a Class Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Enrollment Resources Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » New Students This checklist provides an overview of the steps necessary to enroll at the Lawrence/Edwards campus if you did not take classes at the Lawrence/Edwards campus in the Fall or Spring semester. If you were enrolled for the previous Spring/Fall semester but withdrew from all of your classes before the first day of classes, you must also follow these steps. If you have questions you may contact the Office of the University Registrar - Student Records Center, KU Visitor Center (1502 Iowa St.) 785-864-4423, registrar@ku.edu. 1. Be admitted to the University. If you did not take classes in the preceding semester (excluding the summer term) at the University of Kansas you must be admitted or readmitted for the current semester to enroll. For admission information contact the following: Undergraduate: Visit the admissions application website. Graduate: Contact the Graduate Division of the school offering your major or the courses in which you seek to enroll. Write to the department c/o The University of Kansas, Lawrence KS 66045 or call (785) 864-2700. 2. Signup for Orientation (undergraduates and international students only). Information regarding registration will be mailed once you are admitted or readmitted. For additional details see the Office of First-Year Experience (domestic students) or International Student and Scholar Services. During your Orientation session you will be given specific instructions that replace steps 3, 6 &13 listed here. Attend your Orientation session and then skip to step 8 on this checklist. (Please note that you are not required to attend an orientation prior to enrolling for summer courses, however, you will still need to attend an orientation to enroll in fall courses.) 3. Meet with your advisor to prepare your schedule Be sure to list alternate classes in case your first choice is not available. New students attending an orientation session will be advised during orientation. 4. If your first language is not English You need to be cleared by the Applied English Center (AEC) and see the Applied English Center (204 Lippincott Hall) before enrollment. You are required to take the English Proficiency Test unless excused in writing by the staff of the AEC. Although several test times are scheduled, you may only take the test once. Students must sign up 24 hours in advance of their test and therefore should report to the AEC as soon as possible. 5. Establish or update your KU Online ID Create an ID Change your Password 6. Go to Enroll & Pay Sign in under "Lawrence/Edwards Campus Students & Faculty" using your KU Online ID. Clear any holds listed and update your address information. Navigation information can be found on the Enroll & Pay How-To's page. 7. Enroll Undergraduate Orientation Participants/New/Transfer and International Students: You will be given instructions during orientation. Orientation is your first enrollment opportunity. Undergraduate New/Transfer/International/ who missed Orientation, and New Non-Degree Students: See the academic calendar. Undergraduate Readmitted: By appointment during continuing student enrollment. (see continuing instructions) Graduates New/Transfer: You may enroll from the date your account is activated for enrollment. Your account should be active as of the date of new graduate enrollment or the day you receive your admission letter, whichever is later. See the academic calendar. Graduates Readmitted: By appointment during continuing student enrollment. 8. Make Schedule Changes as needed See the add/drop/change of section checklist. If you decide to no longer attend KU, be sure to follow the procedures to officially withdraw and avoid financial and academic penalties. See the withdrawal checklist. 9. Enrolling in Excess Hours After enrolling in your maximum number of hours (see chart) obtain permission from your school on a schedule change form. This must include the approval of your Dean's office. Bring the completed form to Enrollment Management at the KU Visitor Center, 1502 Iowa St., where the hours will be added. 10. Check your Schedule, tuition, and fee assessment for errors. 11. Submit applications for fee adjustments, if applicable. See the Tuition and Fees page for more information. 12. Pay your fees You will be sent a notification to your registered KU e-mail address once your bill has been generated. For more information see the billing information on the Student Accounts & Receivables website. 13. Obtain an identification card if needed. Go to the KU Card Center, 4th floor Kansas Union. 14. International Students must purchase insurance or provide verification of adequate pre-existing coverage. For more information, see the insurance information on the International Student and Scholar Services website. Caution: The University of Kansas offers late enrollment and therefore you may attempt to late enroll. Requirements are more stringent, late enrollment fees apply and more classes are closed. See the late enrollment instructions for more information. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login