Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Announcements A Guide to Fall 2022 Enrollment Student Center Student Essentials Make an Appointment Key Academic Dates Some programs, including CU Tech, Johnson MBA Programs, Law, and Vet have different academic calendars. Please review the respective sites for specifics. 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Dates Room Reservations Reserving space on campus and other classroom support options. Room Reservations Faculty Center View your teaching schedule, room assignments, class rosters with photos, and grade rosters. Faculty Center ID Cards The Office of the University Registrar is responsible for creating university picture ID cards for the Cornell community. ID Cards Exam Information An overview of the process and information for prelim and final exam schedules for students, staff, and faculty. Exam Information About Us Office of the University Registrar The Office of the University Registrar (OUR) serves as the custodian of student academic records, coordinates course enrollment and registration, and manages the student information system. College Registrars Academic Curriculum policies are administered by the individual colleges and schools. For questions of this nature, students should contact their college registrar's office directly. College Registrars Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University