Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Banner for Faculty Progress Report/Academic Alert System (for Faculty) Banner for Faculty Registration Student Profile Faculty Grade Entry 9.9 Final and Midterm Grades Browse Class Schedule Class Rolls Exams SFASTCA Registration Audit Trail Training Videos Progress Report/Academic Alert System Registration Permits/Overrides The Portal FAQs for Faculty Waitlist Requesting Access to Banner (for New Faculty) Contact Office of the Registrar322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078(405) 744-6876registrar@okstate.edu Need to contact an advisor? Progress Report/Academic Alert System (for Faculty) The OSU Academic Alert System is a communication tool within OSU's Slate CRM system used to support the academic success and retention of our students. Through this system, instructors can report information about student attendance and performance to students and advisors including excessive absences. Submission of an academic alert generates an email message to the student on the instructor’s behalf as well as provides information to the student's advisor(s). The student is asked to contact the instructor to discuss ways to improve and to contact the academic advisor to obtain help with developing a plan for success. Academic advisors are expected to initiate contact with students identified by the alert to provide advising assistance and appropriate referrals to tutoring services, career counseling, personal counseling, and other campus resources. How to Submit an Academic Alert (including Excessive Absence Reports) (Click here for printable instructions with pictures) Login to Slate, available from the my.okstate.edu portal by clicking Academic Alert – Slate link on the Faculty tab. The Instructor Academic Alert Dashboard is organized by tabs. Navigate to the “My Class List” tab to view students currently enrolled in one of your courses. Click the “Submit Alert” link on the right side of the screen. This will navigate you to an internal Slate form with the student and course information prepopulated. Indicate students with excessive absences by selecting one of the following “Alert Reasons”: No Evidence of Attendance - Use this option if you have no evidence that the student has ever attended class (no assignments submitted, no attendance roster, etc.) Excessive Absences – Use this option if you have concerns about the student’s class attendance. The determination of excessive absences is up to each individual instructor. Enter the number of absences at the time of the alert in the next field if desired. Stopped Attending - Use this option if the student has attended some classes but is no longer attending. Be sure to provide the date of last attendance for the student in the “Date of Last Attendance” field in the format (MM/DD/YY). Select additional alert reasons as appropriate. Note that affected students will receive an email indicating submission of the alert which will include all of the “Alert Reasons” you provide. Poor Quality Work - The quality of a student’s work is unsatisfactory. This may include assignments, quizzes, exams, and other coursework. Missing Work - The student has failed to complete assignments, quizzes, exams, or other coursework. Cannot Pass with Remaining Coursework - The student’s performance thus far is such that it is not possible for the student to earn a passing grade by completing the remaining coursework. Provide comments about the student’s attendance or performance in the Instructor Comments area. Click the Submit button at the bottom of the form. The Academic Alert System does not affect the reporting of six-week grades or final grades. Attendance reporting that is requested during the fourth week of the semester utilizes the Academic Alert System. Academic alerts can be submitted throughout the semester. Submission is intended to enhance, not limit or replace direct communication between instructors and students about academic progress. Direct technical questions to osustudentsuccess@okstate.edu. Direct all other questions to the Office of Academic Affairs at 405-744-5627. Behavioral Concerns The Progress Report/Academic Alert system is intended to notify students and academic advisors about academic concerns. For behavioral or wellbeing concerns, please notify Student Support & Conduct by submitting a Care report or calling 405-744-5470. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©