Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Social Science Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Program in Social Science College of Social Sciences and Public Policy Website: https://coss.fsu.edu/iss Director: Lisa Turner de Vera, College of Social Sciences and Public Policy The Interdisciplinary Program in Social Science (ISS) provides a multidisciplinary view of contemporary social issues and problems. The program offers students an opportunity to draw on the several disciplines of social science as they seek an understanding of complex social issues, problems, and events. It is flexible so that students may pursue their own individual specialized and pre-professional interests. Students may design their major to focus around disciplinary orientations to the social science, or special interdisciplinary concentrations in urban studies, public policy, public service, law and society, social entrepreneurship and innovation, and environmental studies are offered. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in the interdisciplinary program in social science satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in CGS 2060 or CGS 2100. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Social Sciences, General XXX XXXX: two introductory courses for a total of six credit hours in a social science discipline Internet Supported Distance Learning A bachelor’s degree program is available that enables students with an AA degree to earn an FSU degree without moving to Tallahassee. To be admitted, students are strongly recommended to have completed the University’s oral communication competency requirement and the computer skills competency requirement. Due to limited course availability, it is strongly suggested that students contact the distance learning advisor to review course planning options, prior to admission. For more information, visit https://distance.fsu.edu/support or contact the program advisor. Requirements Major program of studies at FSU: forty-three hours A major in the interdisciplinary program requires forty-three semester hours. For the general option, work must be taken in at least three departments within the program. Participating departments include: anthropology, economics, geography, history, political science, public administration, sociology, and urban and regional planning. Up to nine of the required forty-three hours may also apply to General Education. Twenty-one hours must be taken in courses numbered above 2999. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 on all coursework applied to the major must be maintained. All coursework within the major must be passed with a grade of “D” or higher. Required coursework: Students must complete the required course, ISS 4304 Contemporary Social Problems and Policy Solutions with a grade of “C” or higher. This course is applicable to any departmental concentration area within the structure of the major. Students must also complete the required course, ISS 3923 Interdisciplinary Forum, with a grade of “S”. Interdisciplinary Social Science General Option (forty-three hours) Students must have: Satisfactory completion of the one-hour forum A primary concentration of eighteen hours in one participating department A secondary concentration of twelve hours in a second participating department and The remaining twelve hours distributed among any of the remaining participating departments that are not being used for the primary or secondary concentrations Interdisciplinary Social Science Specialization Option (forty-three hours) Alternatively, students may complete the requirements of interdisciplinary specializations in law and society, public policy, public service, urban studies, social innovation and entrepreneurship, or environmental studies. For further details, speak with an advisor. Degrees The courses of study offered by the interdisciplinary program in social science lead to the Bachelor of Arts (BA) and Bachelor of Science (BS) degrees. Requirements for a Minor in Social Sciences for Psychology Majors at the Panama City Campus A minor in the interdisciplinary program in social sciences is available for psychology students at the Panama City campus. Students may obtain the minor by successfully completing a total of fifteen semester hours of coursework in interdisciplinary social science participating departments, which include interdisciplinary social science, anthropology, economics, geography, history, political science, public administration, sociology, and urban and regional planning. Honors in the Major The ISS program participates in the upper-division honors in the major. For requirements and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Definition of Prefixes IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies ISS—Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Undergraduate Courses IDS 2472. Freshman Seminar (3). This seminar course aims to advance library research, writing skills, and critical thinking skills among lower division students. Students learn to develop and improve their capacity to communicate complex ideas about a topic of their choosing in speech and in writing through participation in the seminar and research activities. IDS 3342. Boomers and Millennials: Changing Generations (3). In this course, students are guided through original empirical research to appreciate the sources of changes across contrasting generations, and to follow up the impact of generational change for a wide range of social, economic and political dimensions of everyday life. Research projects compare different generations at equivalent points in the life cycle. ISS 2937r. Social Science Honors Seminar (3). May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ISS 3241. Foundations of Social Entrepreneurship and Innovations (3). This course provides a comprehensive overview of the emerging field of social entrepreneurship and innovation, examining how it promotes innovative, impactful, and sustainable solutions to social and environmental problems at the local, national, and international levels. The course looks at how the field is defined and expressed in three essential contexts: innovation and impact across the public, private, and citizen sectors; social enterprise within the context of nonprofit, for-profit, and hybrid organizations; and social transformation throughout an entire system. ISS 3330. Interdisciplinary Social Science Research (3). This course provides an overview of how to study the social world scientifically. Rather than simply present students with facts about social problems, students learn to ask rigorous questions and think about the social world in a more scientific manner. This course introduces students to the scientific method and how it applies across the social science disciplines. ISS 3923. Interdisciplinary Forum (1). (S/U grade only.) Interdisciplinary Social Science Forum is an introductory course for ISS majors to explore and share advising, career, and academic experiences as members of the field of interdisciplinary studies. Students will obtain an orientation to professional and academic options for ISS students via applications-based curriculum, visiting lectures, and workshops. ISS 4014. Evidence Based Public Policy (3). This course is an interdisciplinary public policy course that emphasizes the social science concepts which provide fundamental insights into how public policy is created through collective action and how it can succeed or fail by the actions of individuals and institutions. ISS 4164. Intersections, Power, & Policy (3). Prerequisite: PUP 3002 recommended. This course provides the theoretical study of race, class, and gender from across social science disciplines and the methodological tools for the evaluation of public policy. The course further develops student skills in the critical evaluation of public policy and exposes students to diverse contemporary public policies ranging from congressional legislation to executive orders in Florida as well as nationally. ISS 4304. Contemporary Social Problems (3). This course is designed to introduce the benefits and methods of interdisciplinary research and study. This course uses multiple and interrelated perspectives to identify and explore social issues and problems. Students are guided through the process of building interdisciplinary perspectives to maximize cognitive skills, critical thinking and problem solving skills. ISS 4308. Human-Centered Design for Social Innovation (3). Prerequisite: ISS 3241. This course provides an experience-based introduction to the human-centered design process applied to social innovation and impact. In partnership with a local organization, teams of students collaborate with organizational/community stakeholders to frame a design challenge for the semester; study the problem through primary and secondary research; identify and consider existing approaches/solution; and ideate innovate approaches, prototype, and test/validate those potential solutions and iterate. The teams conclude the semester by presenting the most promising ideas to the organization. ISS 4312. Leading Social Enterprise and Innovation (3). Pre/corequisite: ISS 3241 is recommended but not required. This course provides a framework for students to apply Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship theory and methods toward a social/environmental problem they are interested in. Through the course, students: work to better understand the problem, stakeholder perspectives, and the effective and ineffective ways the problem is currently being addressed; frame a design challenge, identify existing innovative models that can inspire their own, ideate potential approaches to the problem, and develop a sustainable and scalable social impact model that systemically addresses the problem (or an aspect of it); prototype the model; create and present a plan for it implementation via a hybrid social enterprise. ISS 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ISS 4906r. Directed Individual Study (3). May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. ISS 4907r. Honors Work (1–6). May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. ISS 4931r. Special Topics (1–3). May be repeated with permission of the Director of the Interdisciplinary Program in Social Science to a maximum of eighteen semester hours. ISS 4935. Advanced Public Policy Seminar (3). (S/U grade only.) This seminar is an application of critical policy dialogue. The seminar is highly participatory and students address policy analysis in various policy areas in a cross-disciplinary environment. The seminar is available to students participating in the Public Policy Certificate program as Interdisciplinary Social Science majors only. ISS 4944r. Internship (3–6). In this internship, students earn academic credit through a variety of employment situations related to their academic interest. Students engage in active analysis and critical reflection of academic and professional experiences under faculty supervision. May be repeated to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. Graduate Courses HSC 5930r. Special Topics in Social Science (1–3). PHC 5001. Public Health Epidemiology (3). PHC 5912. Public Health Capstone Course (3). PHC 5945. Internship (3). (S/U grade only.) For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright