Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Dance Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots School of Dance Undergraduate Programs College of Fine Arts Website: https://dance.fsu.edu/ Chair: Anjali Austin; Associate Chair: Russell Sandifer; Professors: Austin, Farrell, Glenn, Sandifer, Welsh, Zollar; Associate Professors: Atkins, Corbin, Garibaldi, Goldman, Schwadron, Uchizono, Welliver; Assistant Professors: Ishangi, Mitchell, Rhynard; Assistant in Research: Burdick; Research Faculty III: Peterson; Instructional Specialist III: Smith; Instructional Specialist II: Davis-Craig; Emeriti: Davis, Fichter, Houlihan, McCullough, Morgan, Phillips, Sommer, Wagoner, Young The School of Dance offers work leading to the Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) degree in dance. The mission of the Florida State University School of Dance is to provide an environment conducive to the highest caliber of dance training, art making, and scholarship. Our approach encourages fluidity between the processes of making art, honing craft, and deepening intellectual explorations. We cultivate the individual creative voice with exposure to diverse technical and philosophical approaches. Such an environment nurtures exceptional dance practitioners, allows us to make creative and intellectual contributions to the larger dance community, and fosters collaborative endeavors within and beyond our field. The curriculum is designed to prepare the student who wishes to enter dance as a profession. Of the many professional avenues in which dance can be pursued and practiced, performance and choreography constitute the emphasis of the undergraduate major curriculum at this University. The theoretical aspects of dance (pedagogical, historic, and aesthetic) are also stressed. To fulfill the purpose of the program, the faculty consists of outstanding artist-teachers and scholars who are committed to the model of intensive professional training within the context of a broad University education. A full production schedule offers extensive opportunities for repertory study, performance, and choreography, complemented by work with guest choreographers and visiting lecturers. Part of the school’s mission is to serve as a regional repertory center for the reconstruction and production of dance masterworks and the creation of original repertory. The Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography (MANCC), a dance and choreographic research center affiliated with the School of Dance, also hosts numerous internationally recognized dance artists. The program’s facilities include spacious studios and the Nancy Smith Fichter Dance Theatre. In addition to the dance major degree program, the school offers some liberal studies coursework and elective coursework for the general University student. The school also offers work leading to the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree in dance and a Master of Arts (MA) degree in dance with a major in American dance studies or studio and related studies. Qualified undergraduate dance majors may apply for the Combined Pathway in dance, which offers the opportunity to earn both a BFA degree and an MA degree in dance within a targeted tenure of five years. Florida State University is an accredited institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Dance. Audition and Screening All undergraduate students who wish to major in dance must audition for admission into the dance major program. Auditions are held at designated periods throughout the year. Assessment of every dance major occurs at various times throughout each year to evaluate the student’s progress in the major program. Such assessment is part of a continuous advisement and monitoring procedure. A probationary period may be established if a student is having difficulty and needs special attention. A student who cannot meet the school’s proficiency standards will be discontinued from the dance major program. Placement and Proficiency Intrinsic to the development of a dancer is the technical command of the instrument and the expansion of the vocabulary of movement; therefore, dance majors are continually assessed during their curricular experiences in order to be placed at the correct level of studio work in dance technique. All students are assigned an appropriate placement level in ballet and contemporary dance upon entrance into the program and must maintain continuous participation in ballet and contemporary dance technique classes throughout enrollment in the curriculum. Students who demonstrate the skill necessary for the next level of work upon completion of a studio technique course will be permitted to enroll at the next level. If not, they will be expected to continue in designated courses at their level of technique until they are ready to advance. To meet graduation requirements, the student must achieve and maintain the ballet II-2 level and the contemporary dance II-1 level or the contemporary dance II-2 level and the ballet II-1 level; the advanced proficiency level (II-2) must be achieved by one semester prior to graduation. Performance The dance major is required to participate in a minimum of four performing experiences sponsored by the school. Liberal Studies for the 21st Century All students working toward a degree in dance are required to meet the liberal studies requirements. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in dance satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C–” or higher in DAN 4418. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed by the student at either a community college or a state university prior to being admitted to this program. Students may be admitted into the University without completing the prerequisites, but may not be admitted into the program. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Dance – BFA Track Any twenty-four credit hours from the following thirty credit hours will be accepted toward the major: DAN X610 or DAN X600 (three credit hours) DAN X611 or DAN X601 (three credit hours) DAA X610 (two credit hours) DAA X611 (two credit hours) DAA X680 (two credit hours) or any lower level repertory courses in the 400–499 series for up to four credit hours DAA X681 (two credit hours) or any lower level repertory courses in the 400–499 series for up to four credit hours DAA X200–X209: any lower level ballet technique courses for up to eight credit hours DAA X100–X109: any lower level modern technique courses for up to eight credit hours Note: Although credit toward the major will be given for these, placement in upper level technique courses will continue to be based on individual student proficiency. Minimum Requirements for the BFA in Dance Dance Technique. Thirty semester hours and fulfillment of proficiency requirement. Dance technique courses include DAA 3108r, 3109r, 3208r, 3209r, 4110r, 4210r. The student enrolls in both ballet and contemporary dance throughout enrollment as a dance major except in the following two instances: (a) during Summer session, students may elect to take only one of the technique courses (either ballet or contemporary dance); (b) if students have achieved and maintained the required proficiency levels in technique for at least one semester they may elect to take only one of the technique courses (either ballet or contemporary dance) during one of the last two semesters before graduation (unless they attend the Arts in NYC program). Dance Composition and Repertory. Ten semester hours including DAA 2610, 3614, 3654r, DAN 2611. Other Dance Courses. Forty semester hours, including Dance Ensemble (four semester hours of DAA 1680r, 2681r, 3684r, or 4685r); DAN 2101; DAE 3384; DAN 2500, 2610, 3144, 3145, 3146, 3400, 3504, 3584r, 3714, 3744, 4418 and DAN 4971. Liberal Studies. Thirty-six semester hours. Three hours of the dance history/critical theory courses—DAN 3144, 3145, or 3146—may be applied to the Humanities/Cultural Practice area of liberal studies requirements. Electives. Eleven semester hours. Total: One hundred twenty-eight semester hours. The applicability of previous coursework to dance curricular requirements is assessed and determined by the School of Dance. A transfer student need not earn the maximum semester hours in dance technique but must fulfill the curricular requirement of maintaining continuous participation in ballet and contemporary dance throughout enrollment in the curriculum and must achieve and maintain the required technical proficiency levels. Undergraduate dance majors need not earn the maximum semester hours in dance technique if they are able to complete successfully all other University and school course requirements for graduation and if they have achieved the required technical proficiency levels prior to accumulation of the maximum hours in technique. Students must earn a “C-” or higher in all dance major required courses to graduate. Failure to achieve this milestone with result in repeating coursework. Honors in the Major The School of Dance offers a program in honors in the major to encourage talented juniors and seniors to undertake independent and original research or creative work. For requirements and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Definition of Prefixes DAA—Dance, Emphasis on Activity DAE—Dance Education DAN—Dance IDS—Interdisciplinary Studies Undergraduate Courses Dance Technique The following courses offer a progression of study to develop technical and performance skills, as well as concepts in dance. Ballet DAA 1200r. Beginning Ballet I–Nonmajors (3). This course is suitable for students with little or no previous ballet training. Includes some theoretical study of the history of the art form and comprehension of the vocabulary of ballet technical terms. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. DAA 1201r. Beginning Ballet II–Nonmajors (3). Prerequisite: Faculty placement or instructor permission. This course is suitable for students who are familiar with basic ballet movement. Includes some theoretical study of the history of the art form and comprehension of the vocabulary of ballet technical terms. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. DAA 1202r. Beginning Ballet III–Nonmajors (3). Prerequisite: Faculty placement or instructor permission. This course is suitable for students who are ready to learn more complex phrasing and transitioning of basic ballet movement. Includes some theoretical study of the history of the art form and comprehension of the vocabulary of ballet technical terms. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. DAA 2203r. Intermediate Ballet–Nonmajors (3). Prerequisite: Faculty placement or instructor permission. This course is designed for ballet students who are ready to develop proficiency at the intermediate level, and includes some theoretical study of the history of the art form as well as comprehension of the vocabulary of ballet technical terms. May be repeated to a maximum of eighteen semester hours. DAA 3208r. Ballet I (1–3). Prerequisites: Major status and faculty placement or instructor permission. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. DAA 3209r. Ballet II (1–3). Prerequisites: Major status and faculty placement or instructor permission. May be repeated to a maximum of twenty-four semester hours. DAA 3224Cr. Pointe Technique and Repertory (1). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course offers instruction in the theory and practice of ballet and pointe technique. Students build the strength and technique necessary to execute classical and contemporary pointe variations, with a focus on artistry, individual interpretation, style, and musicality. Finally, the course investigates the historical context of the variations through mini-lectures, discussions, and video viewings. May be repeated to a maximum of eight semester hours. DAA 4210r. Ballet III (1–3). Prerequisites: Major status and faculty placement or instructor permission. May be repeated to a maximum of twenty-four semester hours. Contemporary Dance DAA 1100r. Beginning Contemporary Dance I–Nonmajors (3). This course develops basic techniques and understanding of the art of contemporary dance. Includes some theoretical study of the history of the art form. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. DAA 1102r. Beginning Contemporary Dance III–Nonmajors (2). Prerequisite: Faculty placement or instructor permission. The course may be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. DAA 2103r. Intermediate Contemporary Dance–Nonmajors (3). Prerequisite: Faculty placement or instructor permission. This course is designed for the intermediate contemporary dancer that has had previous movement experience in contemporary dance technique, and includes some theoretical study of contemporary dance history. May be repeated to a maximum of eighteen semester hours. DAA 3108r. Contemporary Dance I (1–3). Prerequisites: Major status and faculty placement or instructor permission. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. DAA 3109r. Contemporary Dance II (1–3). Prerequisites: Major status and faculty placement or instructor permission. May be repeated to a maximum of twenty-four semester hours. DAA 4110r. Contemporary Dance III (1–3). Prerequisites: Major status and faculty placement or instructor permission. May be repeated to a maximum of twenty-four semester hours. Jazz DAA 1500r. Jazz Dance I—Nonmajors (3). This studio course introduces jazz dance as an art form while developing the basic skills and vocabulary of jazz dance. Includes some theoretical study of the history of jazz dance and development of critical-response skills to dance performance. May be repeated to a maximum of eighteen semester hours. DAA 1501r. Jazz Dance II—Nonmajors (3). Prerequisite: Faculty placement or instructor permission. This studio course explores jazz dance as an art form while developing more advanced skills and vocabulary of jazz dance. Includes some theoretical study of the history of jazz dance and the experience of responding critically to dance as an audience member. May be repeated to a maximum of eighteen semester hours. Aspects of Dance Performance DAA 1680r. Dance Ensemble (0–1). (S/U grade only.) This course provides experience in dance ensemble and performance work. This course also includes weekly attendance at the School of Dance Forum for both Fall and Spring semesters. DAA 2681r. Special Dance Performance (0–1). (S/U grade only.) This course provides experience in dance ensemble and performance work. This course also includes weekly attendance at the School of Dance Forum for both Fall and Spring semesters. May be repeated to a maximum of three semester hours. DAA 3684r. Dance Ensemble (0–1). (S/U grade only.) This course provides experience in dance ensemble and performance work and weekly attendance at the School of Dance Forum for both Fall and Spring semesters. May be repeated to a maximum of three semester hours. DAA 3695r. Dance Performance (1–2). This course includes preparation and public performance of selected roles in dance repertory. Official casting and faculty approval required. Majors only. May be repeated to a maximum of sixteen semester hours. DAA 4685r. Dance Ensemble (0–1). (S/U grade only.) This course provides experience in dance ensemble and performance work and weekly attendance at the School of Dance Forum for both Fall and Spring semesters. May be repeated to a maximum of three semester hours. Dance Composition and Repertory DAA 2610. Dance Composition (2). Prerequisites: DAN 2610 and major status. This course explores basic rhythmic, spatial, and dynamic materials in the designing of dance movements; improvisation and exploration of various ideological and aesthetic sources. DAA 3150Cr. Contact Improvisation (1-2). This course examines notions of community and human connection within the technical training of Contact Improvisation. Students look at how the skills of falling, being off balance, and fully trusting a partner prepare the dancer for improvisational dancing and partner work. DAA 3614. Dance Composition (3). Prerequisite: DAN 2611. This course is a study of choreographic forms and structures, musical forms, extended temporal and dynamic studies, components of dramatic and stylistic forms, use of dance technology compositionally. DAA 3654r. Choreography–Repertory (2). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course covers the study and practice of selected works of dance repertory. May be repeated to a maximum of sixteen semester hours. DAA 4615. Dance Composition (3). Prerequisites: DAA 3614; instructor permission. This course examines the extended choreographic process: production of extended choreographic works. Rhythmic and Musical Theory DAN 2610. Rhythmic Analysis (3). This course is an analysis of rhythmic structures and their relationship to dance form and composition. DAN 2611. Music and Choreography (3). Prerequisite: DAN 2610. This course is an analysis of various elements of music with relationship to dance performance and/or choreography. Notation and Movement Analysis DAN 3400. Movement Analysis (3). Prerequisite: DAN 2610. This course introduces and develops a basic understanding of movement-analysis concepts and systems of documentation and reconstruction. An historical survey of dance notation systems and movement analysis theories is conducted. Theoretical materials are examined through emphasis on movement observation, writing and reading skills, and creative use of concepts. DAN 3445. Labanotation (5). Prerequisite: DAN 2610. This course introduces and develops beginning through intermediate skills. Theoretical materials in labanotation are examined with emphasis on writing and developing reading skills. DAN 3714. Dance Kinesiology (3). This course covers the study of movement theories and body alignment for the technical aspects of dance performance. DAN 3744r. Dance Conditioning (2). This course is a studio laboratory for concepts in movement theory and body alignment. May be repeated to a maximum of four semester hours. Dance Production and Technology DAN 2500r. Introduction to Design (1). This course examines the basic vocabulary, understanding, and appreciation of the design process in dance production. May be repeated to a maximum of two semester hours. DAN 3504. Dance Production (2). Prerequisite: Instructor permission. This course studies the technical aspects of production. DAN 3584r. Dance Theatre Laboratory (1). This course covers assigned problems in connection with current dance theatre production. May be repeated to a maximum of four semester hours. DAN 4418r. Survey of Dance Technologies (3). This course provides training and aesthetic guidance for dance artists through the generation of computer-assisted imagery. It sets a foundation for future work in the areas of dance documentation, preservation, creation, promotion, and multimedia performance. May be repeated a maximum of six semester hours. DAN 4420r. Dance and Video (2). Prerequisite: DAN 4418. This course includes the study of camera techniques for the screen and projection design for stage. The course is conducted in two units. The first unit explores concert dance documentation and videodance production. The second unit explores visual media design for the theater. These units may be taken concurrently in the same semester or sequentially for two credits each to a maximum of eight semester hours. DAN 4421. Photography for Dance (2). This course addresses the representation of dance and dancers in two dimensional non-time based photographic media. It involves hands-on camera work and post-production editing. DAN 4484. Documentation Techniques (3). Prerequisite: DAN 4418. This course instructs students in capturing the art of motion, combining hands-on experience with reading, discussion, and critique to develop technical skills and aesthetic awareness related to the documentation of concert dance. DAN 4501. Production and Stage Management for Dance (3). This course introduces students to the foundations of stage and production management for dance. Students cover basic coursework in resource and project management, as well as theoretical and practical experience in stage management. History and Theory of Dance DAN 2100. Dance Appreciation (3). This course is a survey of the development of dance in human culture with emphasis on dance as an art form. The major periods of dance history, choreographic masterworks, and artists in choreography and performance are explored through readings, discussion, media presentation, live performances, and movement laboratories. No prior dance experience is required. DAN 3144. Cultural Perspectives on Dance (3). This course surveys approaches to the study of global dance perspectives and practices through emphasis on dance as expression of cultural, historical, social and political forces. Issues of tradition and innovation in select dance phenomena are especially explored through readings, discussion, media presentation, embodied experiences, and movement laboratories. While movement is a key component of this course, no prior dance experience is required. DAN 3145. Classical Perspectives on Dance (3) . This course introduces students to the history of ballet through a comparative study of classical dance forms around the world. Exploring what constitutes ‘classical’ and reinventing classical, the course also focuses on larger cultural and historical movements as they influenced (or reflected) the codification of dance technique, gender theories of performance, and the role of dance in society. Students investigate these concepts through open, in-class conversations, the screening of classical dance works, and the reading and writing of critical essays and dance reviews. DAN 3146. Contemporary Perspectives on Dance (3). This course introduces students to a comparative study of contemporary dance forms, predominantly in Western culture. The course traces the development of modern and contemporary dance as reflective of larger cultural and historical movements, focusing on the codification of dance technique, gender theories of performance, and the role of dance in society. DAN 3185. African-American Perspectives on Dance (3). This course examines how cultural and artistic expression can both integrate and divide different groups of people along lines of race, gender, and class using African American dance as the central focus. DAN 4182. Dancing in the Movies (3). This course traces the evolution of dance in the American popular film industry. Emphasis will be placed on how movies encapsulate popular stereotypes and icons, revealing the roles of gender, race, fashion, economic and political forces. DAN 4951r. New York City: Arts and Resources (3). This course investigates, experientially and academically, New York City’s resources. Using performances and exhibitions as the center point, the relationships among the various elements that compose an urban art event are explored. May be repeated within the same semester. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. Pedagogy DAE 3384. Methods and Materials in Dance Education (3). This course studies the principles of learning and how they inform the processes of designing lessons and teaching dance. Includes a teaching practicum in local schools in addition to coursework on campus. Other Courses DAN 2101. Introduction to the Dance Profession (3). This course orients new BFA dance majors to professions in dance, exploring the complexities of careers in performance and related areas. Students develop a working knowledge of ballet and contemporary dance traditions and history, using a variety of experiences within the classes, including lectures, videos, studio sessions, guest presentations and panels, and live performance. DAN 3125C. MANCC Experience (3). This course explores the Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography (MANCC) experience with focus on ideas surrounding dance collaborations and process-oriented work, especially contextualization of and interaction with visiting MANCC artists and their current projects. The course also engages students in discussions related to dance research, aesthetics, and history in order for students to become more familiar with MANCC and to support how students envision contributing to the current professional dance field once they graduate. DAN 4747r. Targeted Cross-Training for Dancers (1-2). Prerequisites: Dance major status and instructor permission. This course provides a structure to help dancers (re)build the capacities they need to participate fully in dance technique classes, rehearsals, and performances following injury. DAN 4760. Gyrotonic Methodology (3). This course introduces students to the GYROTONIC® specialized exercise system. The course demonstrates how Gyrotonic offers enhanced freedom of movement with exercises executed on the professional Pulley Tower machine. Students learn how this approach systematically works joints and muscles while stimulating the body’s internal organs with corresponding breathing patterns. Students’ personal cross training interests are included in the course. DAN 4900r. Honors Study in Dance (1–6). Prerequisite: Admission to honors in dance program. Written thesis for creative or academic research done as part of the honors in dance program. May be repeated to a maximum of nine semester hours. DAN 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. DAN 4910r. Dance Internship (1–6). This internship experience provides students with professional experience related to their field of study. This internship offers placements with a variety of dance- and arts-related organizations. The internship enables students to receive valuable networking connections, hands-on training, and the opportunity to work closely with professionals on meaningful projects. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve (12) credit hours. DAN 4935r. Special Topics in Dance (1–3). Prerequisites: Vary depending on topic. In this course, topics may vary from term to term. May be repeated to an unlimited number of hours. DAN 4971. Senior Capstone Experience (3). This course will provide senior dance majors with opportunities to develop a significant, original project through the cultivation of an individual studio or related studies practice and semester portfolio. The course aims to prepare students for entering the field after graduation from the BFA program. Emphasis is placed on verbal articulations of creative process as well as thoughtful critiques of dance works. IDS 2373. From Ballet to Beyonce: Gender and the Body in Dance and Pop Culture (3). This course uses dance and popular culture performances to explore current trends and issues in American gender. Through discussion, video viewings, and accessible readings, students explore the ways in which the moving body reflects and shapes identity. No previous movement experience necessary for this seminar. Graduate Courses DAA 5118r. Contemporary Dance (1–3). DAA 5218r. Ballet (1–3). DAA 5228r. Graduate Pointe Technique and Repertory (1). DAA 5618. Choreography (3). DAA 5647. Choreographic Process (2). DAA 5648r. Choreographic Project (2–6). (S/U grade only.) DAA 5688r. Dance Ensemble (1). (S/U grade only.) DAA 5698r. Dance Performance (1–2). DAE 5305. Science of Dance Training (3). DAE 5387. Dance History Pedagogy (3). DAE 5940. Supervised Teaching (2). (S/U grade only.) DAN 5126r. Current Issues in Dance History, Theory, and Research (1–3). DAN 5127C. MANCC Experience (3). DAN 5128. Theory of Dance (3). DAN 5147. Dance Practices of the Global Gulf (3). DAN 5148. Dance Migrations and Mobilities (3). DAN 5149. Contemporary Stage and Social Movements (3). DAN 5158. Theory of Dance Performance and Directing (3). DAN 5190. Theory and Practice in Dance Technique (2). DAN 5191r. Seminar in Dance Research (3–6). DAN 5193. History of African-American Social Dance of the Twentieth Century (3). DAN 5194. Dancing in the Movies (3). DAN 5486. Documentation Techniques (3). DAN 5507. Production and Stage Management for Dance (3). DAN 5508. Visual Design for Choreography (3). DAN 5590. Studies in Dance Technology (2). DAN 5591r. Dance and Video (2). DAN 5592. Screendance Composition (2). DAN 5596. Photography for Dance (2). DAN 5650. Music Praxes in Dance (2). DAN 5748. Targeted Cross-Training for Dancers (1-2). DAN 5765. Gyrotonic Methodology (3). DAN 5776Cr. Contact Improvisation (1-2). DAN 5905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). DAN 5910. Supervised Research (2). (S/U grade only.) DAN 5930r. Special Topics in Dance (1–3). DAN 5940r. Internship (1–12). DAN 5950r. New York City: Arts and Resources (3). For listings relating to master’s examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. DEMOGRAPHY: see Graduate Bulletin DEVELOPING AREAS, PLANNING FOR: see Urban and Regional Planning DIETETICS: see Nutrition, Food and Exercise Sciences EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION: see Childhood Education, Reading, and Disability Services Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright