Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Grading Entering Grades in Faculty Center The Office of the University Registrar creates grade rosters in batch after the last day of classes. Contact your college registrar if a grade roster is required prior to the end of the semester. Grade rosters will only be created for the graded component of the class. Final grades are entered in the grade roster (not gradebook) in Faculty Center. Grades may be entered for each student individually, or multiple grades may be uploaded from a spreadsheet by using the grade upload feature. To enter each grade individually, click on the grade roster icon next to your class in Faculty Center. Enter grades for each student and then click the save button at the bottom of the page. Save frequently when entering grades for large classes. Posting of Grades and Grade Changes Grades are posted by the Office of the University Registrar during the grading period on a daily basis, excluding weekends and holidays. The grading period typically begins on the third day of exams. Grades submitted by 2:00 PM will be available to view in Student Center and Faculty Center by 5:30 PM. Once grades have been posted, changes can be submitted through the online grade adjustment system (OLGAA). Manual grade forms may be obtained from your college registrar’s office. Grade Submission Due Dates for Faculty Fall semester grades must be submitted on or before the date set by the registrar. Spring semester grades must be submitted on or before the day the university re-opens after commencement. Colleges may set earlier grade submission due dates. Student Data Safety Reminders Grades are protected by FERPA and university policy. Grades should never be posted or made public. Email should never be used to communicate or discuss grades. If grade rosters, reports, and other confidential material must be distributed within the university, use the Cornell DropBox. Student information must be stored on a secure, password-protected server. Grading Help For problems entering grades, grading policy questions, or submission deadlines, contact your college registrar. For questions or feedback for the University Registrar, contact univreg@cornell.edu. For additional information, see the Courses of Study “Grading Guidelines.” Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Faculty Center Faculty Policies Use of Student Data FERPA DropBox Grade Upload Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University