Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Faculty and Department Resources Examinations and Grading Grading Practices Section Menu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Undergraduates Authorized grading symbols Authorized grading symbols for undergraduates are as follows: A, B, C, D, F for all courses. Exceptions are as follows: Pass/D/Fail Only courses: P, D, or F must be used. Pluses (+) and minuses (-): Optional on A's, B's, and C's only. Auditors Students enrolled as auditors are indicated on the grade roster by the notation of “Audit” displayed in the Grading Basis column. Course successfully completed: Instructors should enter a grade notation of “AUD” for students enrolled as auditors. Course not successfully completed: For auditors who do not complete the course or who fail the course, a grade of “DRP” should be entered. Incompletes The Office of the Dean of the College must approve the grade of "Incomplete" for an undergraduate. A faculty member should request an authorized incomplete by contacting the dean of the student’s residential college. The Office of the Registrar records unauthorized incompletes and blank grades as F's. A+ or F Grades Faculty who assign a final course grade of A+ of F to an undergraduate must simultaneously file an A+ or a Failure Statement for each student. Such statements must be submitted by the instructor-in-charge of the course on the ODOC A+/Failure Statement page. A+ and Failure Statements for the A.B. Junior Independent Work, Senior Thesis and Senior Departmental Exam should be submitted on paper. Forms are available in the Registrar's Office, you may send completed forms via campus mail to the Office of the Registrar. Undergraduates Enrolled in Graduate Courses Students must take the course in the grading basis in which the course is offered. For instance, when a graduate course is designated pass/D/fail only, undergraduates may not take the course for a letter grade. Students should consult their director of undergraduate studies prior to taking the class, if they wish to count the pass/D/fail only graduate course as a departmental. Graduate Students Graded Option If the department grades its graduate courses, use the A, B, C, D, F, and P scale. The entire scale A-P may be used, or the scale may be limited to P/D/F and A, B, C, D, F. Assign pluses (+) and minuses (-) to the grades of A, B, and C only. Ungraded Option If the department chooses the ungraded option, enter an asterisk(*). The asterisk indicates that no grade is given in the course. Do not mix letter grades and P's in an ungraded graduate course, except for undergraduates in the ungraded course (see section 1.5 above). Auditors Expectations: Graduate students eligible to enroll in courses are permitted to enroll in a course on an audit basis if this enrollment option is allowed by the relevant instructor(s). There are no limits set by the Graduate School on the number of courses that may be audited in a single term. Grading: Students enrolled as auditors are indicated on the grade roster by the notation of “Audit” displayed in the Grading Basis column. Instructors should enter a grade notation of “AUD” for students enrolled as auditors. For auditors who do not complete the course or who fail the course, a grade of “DRP” should be entered. Dropped Courses FAculty submit a grade of “DRP” for any graduate student who is no longer taking the course. Incompletes Graduate students who have not completed the requirements of a given course by the deadline should receive the grade notation of "INC" (Incomplete). Replacement of an Incomplete may be submitted directly to the Office of the Registrar within one year of the beginning of the semester in which the incomplete was assigned. A notation of “INC” for a graduate student that is not replaced within one year from the beginning of the semester will be converted to an “F” by the Graduate School and will remain on the transcript as part of the permanent record. Graduate Students Enrolled in Undergraduate Courses Graduate students enrolled in undergraduate courses are graded with the scale appropriate to graduate students, i.e., A, B, C, D, P, F or Ungraded (*), except when the course is offered on a "P/D/F Only" basis. Grade Changes Grade changes may be requested online by the instructor in charge of the course. Authority for approving a grade change rests solely with the Dean of the College for undergraduate students or the Dean of the Graduate School for graduate students. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility