Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Student and Alumni Services Course Selection P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Section Menu Transcript and Verification Services First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit During the P/D/F selection period each term, you may elect to take one course on Pass / D / Fail basis. (Courses designated “P/D/F Only” are excluded.) This is completed using TigerHub, and you may change your selections as often as you wish prior to the final deadline. Please make your election thoughtfully and in concert with your academic adviser. Undergraduate courses Select “Elect P/D/F Grading Option” in the Academic Tasks tile to view current courses. After making your P/D/F selection, select Submit / Confirm. Graduate courses It is expected that you take the course with the grading basis in which it is offered. Undergraduate Student Course Audits Students who wish to audit a course in any term should consider the requirements for receiving audit credit prior to enrolling in a course. The Undergraduate Announcement provides further information. Graduate Student Grade Option Selection With permission, you may be approved to enroll in a course with a grading option otherwise not allowed by an instructor. This most often occurs when you take a course outside of your department and need it to satisfy your program’s requirements. In such cases, the grading option will not be available in TigerHub. Instructions Complete the Graduate Student Enrollment Change Form, indicating your request. Secure approval from your director of graduate studies and the instructor. Submit the form, in person, to the Office of the Registrar. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility