Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of the Registrar Main Menu In this section Academic Calendar Commencement Apply toGraduate CommencementInformation Forms Transcripts Order Transcripts Transcript FAQs Official TranscriptDetails University Catalog University Catalog Catalog Archives Home Commencement Apply to Graduate Commencement President's Commencement Welcome Message Apply to Graduate Steps to Graduate Undergraduate Steps to Graduate Graduate College Steps to Graduation College of Veterinary Medicine Steps to Graduation Graduation Deadlines Caps, Gowns and Regalia Caps and Gowns Academic Regalia Honors Regalia Ceremonies and Events Undergraduate Ceremony Details Parking and Accessibility Arena Entry and Security Commencement Speaker Diplomas Verification of Degree Conferral Programs, Photos and Videos Commencement Programs Commencement Photos Commencement Videos Graduation FAQs Future Commencement Dates Contacts Summer Graduate Information Contact Commencement322/324 Student Union, Stillwater OK 74078 (405) 744-4372commencement@okstate.edu Commencement Home Page Apply to Graduate Students must submit a graduation application by the applicable deadlines to be considered a degree candidate and be eligible to graduate. For a student’s name to appear in the commencement program, the application must be submitted by April 1 for spring ceremonies (includes spring and summer degree candidates) and by November 1 for fall ceremonies. Graduation applications will be accepted through the Friday of finals week for the semester a student intends to graduate, but the student’s name will not appear in the commencement program if submitted after April 1 (spring) or November 1 (fall). Follow these instructions to apply to graduate: Login to the my.okstate.edu portal. Click on the Self-Service icon. From the Student tab, select Student Records. Select Graduation Application (Apply). If you are eligible to apply for graduation, the first page will present your latest curriculum (degree/major programs) for you to select. The term shown at the top of this page may not be your expected graduation term. This is OK – you will select your expected graduation term in the next section. On the diploma name page, select the best option from the drop-down list. You will be able to edit the first name and middle name as you would like it to appear on your diploma and in the commencement program. The suffix field is intended for generational titles only (e.g. Jr., Sr., II, III). Indicate a complete mailing address for your diploma. Note that diplomas are typically mailed 6-8 weeks after the end of the term. (Due to the holiday break, fall diplomas will be ready approximately 8-10 weeks after the term.) Review your graduation application summary and click Submit Request. Students who are not eligible to apply for graduation will see a message that says, “No curricula available for graduation application.” Students must meet the following eligibility rules to submit a graduation application: Undergraduates must have at least 90 overall earned hours on their academic transcript. Graduate students require an approved Graduation Clearance form on file with the Graduate College. DVM students must be in their fourth year of the program. Graduation applications will be accepted until Friday of finals week for the semester you intend to earn your degree. For your name to appear in the commencement program, the application generally must be submitted by November 1 for the fall ceremony and April 1 for the spring ceremony (includes spring and summer degree candidates). If you determine you will not graduate in the semester of your graduation application, please submit a Graduation Application Cancellation form (see link to the required form below) and, after you receive confirmation it has been processed, submit a new Graduation Application through Self-Service. Graduation Applications will be accepted until Friday of finals week for the semester you intend to earn your degree. Use the following forms to request changes to your graduation application: Graduation Application Cancellation Form Diploma Name Preference Form Diploma Release Information Form Graduation Deadlines - commencement.okstate.edu/deadlines Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Registrar 322/324 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6876 | Contact Us Follow US Social Media Directory Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Snapchat Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©