Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Faculty Center and Advisor Center Student Center will be unavailable starting at 5:00pm ET on Thursday, March 3, through Sunday, March 6, 2022, for system improvements. Please plan for the outage by completing any time-sensitive tasks on Student Center or Student Essentials before Thursday, March 3. Normal service will be restored for normal business hours (ET) on Monday, March 7, 2022. Faculty Center and Advisor Center are accessed from the same url: http://facultycenter.cornell.edu. A Network ID and password are required to access the site. Starting June 30, 2018, all individuals accessing Faculty Center and Advisor Center will be required to use Cornell's Two-Step Login service. Faculty and/or instructors affiliated with a class will see the Faculty Center tab. Advisors and graduate committee members will see the Advisor Center tab. Faculty Center Faculty Center provides a single point of entry to access your class information. View your teaching schedule, room assignments, class rosters with photos, and grade rosters. Faculty Center is where you will enter or upload grades. Advisor Center In Advisor Center, advisors and graduate committee members can access a variety of tools to review an advisee's historical record, current schedule, requirements, and future academic planning. See the Advisor Center help document for additional information. Under the academics area of the student center tab, view an advisee's: Class Schedule - advisee class schedule for a selected term Shopping Cart - shopping cart of classes not yet in enrolled status My Planner - students can add courses to their planner by selecting from the course catalog in Student Center, or from the list of courses required for completion of their program. My Planner allows students to move courses to a specific term for planning purposes, but there is no guarantee that the course will be offered in the term that they have chosen. Milestones - in the Milestones box on the right, view details for specific requirements (e.g. Swim Test, Master's Thesis), including completion status. Additionally, from the "other academic" drop-down menu, access an advisee's: Academic Requirements - academic requirements, status of satisfied or not satisfied, and the courses that would fulfill each requirement. Not all degree programs have been set up to display academic requirements or degree progress in My Academics. Course History - review an advisee's course record including completed, in progress, and planned courses. This sortable report displays term, grade, and credits. Unofficial Transcript - select academic institution and report type to quickly view an unofficial transcript. Unofficial transcripts are not to be shared with students. Transfer Credit Report -see a summary of the test and transfer credits that are part of an advisee's academic record. Data Protection As a university official with access to student information and records, you are a custodian of this data and responsible for ensuring the privacy and security of education records and personal information in accordance with all university policies and federal and state laws. The University Policy on Access to Student Information provides guidelines on appropriate use of data. Need Help? See the Advisor Center FAQ page. Send email to faculty_advisor@cornell.edu. Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Grading Faculty Center Two-Step Login Advisor Center FAQ's, Accessing Advisor Center Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University