Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions 2021-2022 Undergraduate Bulletin Home Bulletin Undergraduate Departments & Programs Interior Architecture & Design Helpful Links Graduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Undergraduate Bulletin Policies & Information Colleges Departments & Programs Bulletin PDF Archive of Previous Editions Fall Registration Guide Spring Registration Guide Summer Registration Guide Class Search Snapshots Undergraduate Department of Interior Architecture & Design College of Fine Arts Website: https://interiordesign.fsu.edu/ Chair: Jill Pable; Professors: Pable; Associate Professors: Dawkins, Huber, Ransdell, Webber; Assistant Professors: McLane, Mick, Robinson, Sickler; Specialized Faculty: O’Keefe; Adjunct Faculty: Cavazos, Fishburne, Hulslander, Markham, Nasab, Osborne, Saginario, Waxman, Varnedoe, Willoughby; Professors Emeriti: Butler, Koenig, Munton, Myers, Ohazama, Waxman, Wiedegreen The Department of Interior Architecture & Design addresses design issues in all interior spaces, including both residential and nonresidential. Students are prepared to meet professional requirements and criteria for the practice of interior design, membership in professional organizations, and state licensure. A professional designer is defined by the national accrediting body, the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA), as one who is “qualified by education, experience, and examination to enhance the function and quality of interior spaces for the purpose of improving the quality of life, increasing productivity, and protecting health, safety, and welfare of the public.” The Department of Interior Architecture & Design is accredited by the Council for Interior Design and Accreditation (CIDA) and the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). The competencies taught include elements and principles of design, design analysis, space planning and programming, drafting and technical drawing, computer-aided design and building information modeling, graphic presentation of design solutions, design history, sustainability, construction systems, construction documents, and includes comprehensive design studios addressing a variety of design sector projects including residential, healthcare, retail, workplace, and hospitality. There are active student chapters of the American Society of Interior Designers (ASID) and the International Interior Design Association (IIDA). The faculty includes members of ASID, IIDA, the Interior Design Educators Council (IDEC), and holders of certificates in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and the WELL Building Standard (WELL). The undergraduate program offers the Bachelor of Science (BS) and the Bachelor of Arts (BA) degrees in interior design. Students must consult the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin for BA degree requirements. Computer Skills Competency All undergraduates at Florida State University must demonstrate basic computer skills competency prior to graduation. As necessary computer competency skills vary from discipline to discipline, each major determines the courses needed to satisfy this requirement. Undergraduate majors in interior design satisfy this requirement by earning a grade of “C-” or higher in IND 3469. State of Florida Common Program Prerequisites The state of Florida has identified common program prerequisites for this University degree program. Specific prerequisites are required for admission into the upper-division program and must be completed at FSU prior to being formally admitted to the program. Students may be admitted to FSU without the prerequisites. At the time this document was published, some common program prerequisites were being reviewed by the state of Florida and may have been revised. Please visit https://dlss.flvc.org/admin-tools/common-prerequisites-manuals for a current list of state-approved prerequisites. The following lists the common program prerequisites or their substitutions, necessary for admission into this upper-division degree program: Interior Design IND X206 IND X406 IND X203 IND X204 ARH X057 or ARH X051: coursework in art history (Renaissance through contemporary) for three credit hours is required by the department and may also be used to meet a general education/liberal studies humanities requirement. Degree Requirements The undergraduate degree program consists of seventy-seven semester hours of coursework in interior design. Students are also required to participate in an internship for three credit hours prior to graduation. Any exceptions must be submitted to the chair for review. Specific degree requirements include the following: Liberal studies: of the required and elective semester hours, three must be taken in ARH 2051, an art history course and three must be taken in MAC 1105, a math course, both in the first year. Refer to the ‘Liberal Studies for the 21st Century’ section in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin for specific degree requirements. Contact the program advisor for further information if needed. Foundation classes: nine semester hours Interior design studio courses: twenty-four semester hours Technical and graphic design courses: twenty-three semester hours Lecture-based support courses: twelve semester hours History of interiors and architecture: six semester hours Internship: three semester hours Electives in interior design: none required, but students must have at least 120 hours to graduate. Requirements for Bachelor of Arts Degree (only) Electives in art-related courses must also meet University humanities requirement Language requirement is the equivalent of two years of language proficiency (no credit requirement). Refer to the ‘Liberal Studies for the 21st Century’ section in the “Undergraduate Degree Requirements” chapter of this General Bulletin for specific degree requirements. Requirements for a Major in Interior Design The program is a limited access major with required sequential course offerings and elective courses in interior design. Three diagnostic courses are offered during the first year of study (IND 1203, 1204, and 2002). All prerequisite diagnostic classes must be taken at FSU. In a review of design work generated from these three classes, along with the student’s cumulative college GPA and faculty evaluation of attitude and work ethic, up to thirty-six students are chosen to move forward into the second year and are formally accepted into the major. It is recommended that transfer students take all three first-year diagnostic courses at Florida State University during the fall or spring terms, and then go through First Year Review in May. A specific listing of courses required for a major in interior design is available on the department Website at https://interiordesign.fsu.edu/. A minor is not required but may be obtained in other areas (departmental advisement required prior to electing a minor). Students majoring in interior design must maintain the minimum GPA for semester and overall averages, and achieve a minimum grade of “C” in all interior design classes. Students must repeat classes in which they earn a grade below a “C”, but only two classes may be repeated. Students who need to repeat more than two classes in the program will be removed from the program. Honors in the Major The Department of Interior Architecture & Design offers a program in honors in the major to encourage talented juniors and seniors to undertake independent research as part of the undergraduate experience subject to faculty availability. For requirements and other information, see the “University Honors Office and Honor Societies” chapter of this General Bulletin. Definition of Prefixes IND—Interior Design Undergraduate Courses IND 1203. Design Fundamentals I (3). Corequisite: IND 1204. This course is the study and development of two- and three-dimensional design projects using the elements and principles of design. IND 1204. Design Fundamentals II (3). Corequisite: IND 1203. This course is the continuing study and development of two- and three-dimensional design projects using the elements and principles of design leading to the development of architectural space. IND 1206. Introduction to Interior Design (3). This course is a survey of the elements and principles of interior design to create an awareness of the made environment and a comprehensive appreciation of design. IND 2002. Survey of Interior Design (3). This course offers a survey of the elements and principles of interior design and creates an awareness of the built environment and a comprehensive global appreciation of design. The presentation of major elements in residential and commercial interiors is aimed at self-application and beginning designers. IND 2300. Graphic Techniques I (3). Prerequisite: First year review. This course is an introduction to achromatic media used in sketching, rendering, and design drawing, with an emphasis on schematics used in problem solving. IND 2310. Graphic Techniques II (3). Prerequisite: IND 2300. This course is an introduction to contemporary graphics color media, reproduction processes, and presentation drawings, with a focus on the reinforcement of perspective and freehand drawing proficiencies, as well as rapid rendering techniques for interior delineation. IND 3217C. Interior Design Studio I (4). This course is an introduction to the fundamental elements and principles of design, design process, problem solving, space planning, and specifications. IND 3431. Lighting Fundamentals (3). Prerequisite: IND 3217C. This course explores the advanced technical aspects of interior design with emphasis on lighting, electrical plans, reflected ceiling plans, measurements, and acoustics. IND 3440C. Furniture Design (4). Prerequisite: IND 3217C. This course focuses on the study of materials, structural considerations, function, and style of furniture and case goods by developing and appreciating their design and construction. IND 3465. Computer-Aided Design I (3). Prerequisite: First year review. This course is an introduction to computer-aided design and drafting using AutoCAD software. Students develop an understanding of the software and how designers and architects use computers. IND 3469. Computer-Aided Design II (3). Prerequisite: IND 3465. This course is an advanced computer-aided design class. Students increase their knowledge of 3D AutoCAD, learn the basics of Autodesk Viz software, and receive an overview of PhotoShop. IND 3470. Construction Systems (3). Prerequisite: IND 3217C. This lecture course focuses on general construction techniques and terminology, integrating the building systems of structure, plumbing, and mechanical and fire safety. IND 3474. Construction Documents (3). Prerequisite: IND 3469. This studio course focuses on the generation of a comprehensive set of specifications and construction drawings for a single project. IND 3480. Materials and Methods (3). Prerequisite: A textiles course. This course involves the study of furnishings and finishes for interiors with an emphasis on both aesthetic and performance qualities of the materials typically utilized in interior space. IND 3529. Portfolio Development I (1). This course is designed to assist students in developing the documents necessary to represent their professional identity. IND 3533. Portfolio Development II (1). Prerequisite: IND 3529. This course provides students with the skills and knowledge they need to develop the graphic documents necessary to represent their creative work. IND 3627. Principles of Sustainable Design (3). This course gives students a basic introduction to the fundamentals of sustainable design in order to better understand the inter-relationships between the built environment and nature. IND 3930r. Special Topics in Interior Design (1–3). May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. IND 4101. History of Interiors I (3). Prerequisites: ARH 2051. The course focuses on historical and theoretical explorations of architecture, interiors, furniture design, and decorative arts from antiquity through the end of the 18th century. IND 4131. History of Interiors II (3). Prerequisites: IND 4101 and ARH 2051. This course focuses on historical ad theoretical explorations of architecture, interiors, furniture design, and decorative arts from the early 19th century through today. IND 4156r. Historical Restoration, Research and Documentation (3–6). This course includes study, research, and documentation of restoration and preservation procedures, sources of antiquities, and reproductions. Includes field trips. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. IND 4161r. History of Interiors III (3). This course includes the study of architecture, interior, and furniture design from the 19th century to the present. May be repeated to a maximum of six semester hours. IND 4218C. Interior Design Studio II (4). Prerequisite: IND 3217C. This course consists of intermediate projects in creative problem solving applied to both residential and contract interiors. Emphasis on graphic communication and presentation. IND 4242C. Interior Design Studio III (4). Prerequisite: IND 4218C. This course consists of advanced projects in creative problem solving with emphasis on programming, spatial analysis, and open-office systems. IND 4243C. Interior Design Studio IV (4). Prerequisite: IND 4242C. This course is an advanced application of the design process with emphasis on individual professional objectives and procedures for portfolio presentation. IND 4245C. Interior Design Studio V (4). Prerequisite: IND 4243C. This course is the undergraduate capstone studio and includes the design of a large-scale commercial space focusing on design development through final drawing production. IND 4506. Business Practices for Interior Designers (3). This course involves analysis and application of current business practices by professional interior designers. IND 4601. Sociological and Psychological Aspects of Design (3). Prerequisite: First year review. This course is an exploration of the relationship between humans and their environment through the study of personal and social use of space, proxemics, spatial analysis, and the effects of the environment on human behavior. IND 4905r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) This course enables students to pursue independent work in the area of delineation or resources under the direction of a faculty member. May be repeated to a maximum of twelve semester hours. IND 4947r. Internship (3). This internship enables students to pursue experience with design firms or other related fields under the direction of a faculty member or supervisor. May be repeated to a maximum of nine (9) credit hours. IND 4970r. Honors in the Major (3). For honors credit, the Department of Interior Architecture & Design requires a two-term honors program consisting of six thesis or project hours to be counted toward elective credit. Upon meeting Florida State University’s requirements for honors courses, the students pursue independent creative and academic research as part of the undergraduate program. Graduate Courses IND 5005. Survey of Interior Design (3). IND 5028. Creative Problem-Solving (3) IND 5105r. History of Interiors Seminar I (3). IND 5135r. History of Interiors Seminar II (3). IND 5157. Historical Restoration, Research and Documentation (3). IND 5165r. History of Interiors Seminar III (3). IND 5208. Design Fundamentals (3). IND 5235. Graduate Studio I (3). IND 5236. Graduate Studio II (3). IND 5257. Graduate Studio III (3). IND 5258. Graduate Studio IV (3). IND 5280. Graduate Studio V (3). IND 5281C. Graduate Studio VI (5). IND 5282C. Graduate Studio VII (5). IND 5315. Advanced Visual Communication (3). IND 5316r. Design Graphics II (1–4). IND 5317. Design Graphics I (3). IND 5425. Graduate Technical Design (3). IND 5428. Materials and Methods (3). IND 5435. Graduate Lighting Seminar (4). IND 5445. Graduate Furniture Design (3). IND 5476. Computer-Aided Design I (3). IND 5477. Computer-Aided Design II (3). IND 5479. Construction Systems (3). IND 5487. Construction Documents (3). IND 5508. Professional Practices (3). IND 5526. Graduate Portfolio Review II (1). (S/U grade only.) IND 5528. Graduate Portfolio Review I (1). (S/U grade only.) IND 5609. Graduate Seminar: Social-Psychological Aspects of Design (3). IND 5628. Principles of Sustainable Design (3). IND 5634r. Pre-Design Research and Programming (3–6). IND 5636. Graduate Seminar: Design Theory and Criticism (3). IND 5637. Graduate Seminar: Research Methods in Design (3). IND 5638. Graduate Seminar: Design Issues (3). IND 5910r. Directed Individual Study (1–3). (S/U grade only.) IND 5911r. Supervised Research (1–5). (S/U grade only.) IND 5930r. Special Topics in Interior Design (1–4). IND 5944r. Field Research in Space Organization (1–8). IND 5945r. Supervised Teaching (1–3). (S/U grade only.) IND 5948r. Graduate Internship (1–3). (S/U grade only.) For listings relating to graduate coursework for thesis, dissertation, and master’s and doctoral examinations and defense, consult the Graduate Bulletin. Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright