Skip to main content Search Search Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Registrar Classes + Enrollment Class Roster Courses of Study Courses of Study Archive Student Essentials Gateway Courses Prorated Tuition Student Center FAQ Classes and Enrollment FAQ University Registration Calendars + Exams Academic Calendar Final Exam Policies Spring Prelim Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Fall Prelim Exam Schedule Fall Final Exam Schedule Grades + Transcripts Grading Median Grades Ordering Transcripts Transcript FAQ Transcript Keys Validating an eTranscript Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Faculty + Staff Faculty Center/Advisor Center Advisor Center FAQ Opscan Scanning Service Changing CIP Codes Data Requests Program Registration For Registrar Staff Apostille Governments and agencies may require that diplomas and transcripts be certified with an apostille. In order to obtain a New York State apostille, the following steps need to be completed by the student. Processing will take an estimated 12 weeks. 1. To request a document be processed for apostille: Electronic documents: Email univreg@cornell.edu with the following: Scanned copy of the document(s) (eDiplomas and eTranscripts will not be accepted, only a PDF file that can be printed) Full name Date of birth Current mailing address (including country) Phone number Email address Original document(s): Mail them to the following address, with the same information as above: Cornell University Office of the University Registrar B07 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 The Office of the University Registrar will process the necessary certifications and verifications and return them to you via postal mail. 2. Once you receive the notarized document(s), you will need to obtain a Notorial Certificate from the Tompkins County Clerk. The following is needed: a. Completed Notorial Certificate Request b. The notarized document(s) c. A check/money order for $3.00 (per document) made payable to Tompkins County Clerk 3. Once you receive the certified document(s), proceed to process with the New York State Department of State Apostille services. All payments must be in U.S. funds drawn from a U.S. institution or bank. Service + Resources Apostille Certifications University Registrar Directory College Advising Directory College Registrar Directory Diploma Information Disability Accommodations FERPA ID Cards Mental Health at Cornell Names and Name Changes Use of Student Data Veteran Education Benefits Building Codes Key Academic Dates 06 Jun 2022 Summer 22 8 Week Session 20 Jun 2022 Juneteenth Observance/Holiday/No Classes 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 6 Week Session 21 Jun 2022 Summer 22 3 Week 2 Session See More Key Academic Dates Related Links + Files Ordering Transcripts Diploma Information No Related Files Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, 245 Day Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00PM Get Directions univreg@cornell.edu (607) 255-4232; Phone Hours: Monday - Friday; 10:00 AM - 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information in this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2017 Cornell University