Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Forms Course Enrollment Worksheet Use for: Academic advising, adding courses with special enrollment procedures, add/drop Instructions Academic Advising Print and complete the Course Enrollment Worksheet. Meet with your adviser to discuss your plans and have them sign the form. Keep a copy for reference during course enrollment in TigerHub. Course Changes Complete the worksheet. (Review the Special Enrollment Requests and Add/Drop pages for details.) Review plans with your adviser. Have them sign and date the worksheet. Submit the form to The Office of the Registrar, Helm Building, 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor. Course Enrollment Worksheet Graduate Student Enrollment Change Form Use for: Academic advising, grading option changes, course schedule conflicts, add/drop Instructions Complete the Graduate Student Enrollment Change form. Secure approvals. (Review the Special Enrollment Requests and Add/Drop pages for details.) Submit the form, in person, to the Office of the Registrar, Helm Building, 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor. Graduate Student Enrollment Change Form Undergraduate Permission to Enroll in Graduate Courses Form Use for: Graduate course enrollment as an undergraduate Instructions Complete the Undergraduate Permission to Enroll in Graduate Courses Form. Secure approvals. Submit the form, in person, to the Office of the Registrar, Helm Building, 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor. Undergraduate Permission to Enroll Form Transcripts Your transcript is the official record of courses, grades, concentration, and degree earned at Princeton. Current and former students may request a paper copy of the transcript at any time. Current students and former students from the Class of 1972 and following may also request an electronic transcript that is delivered within minutes. An official transcript includes a Legend that explains grading symbols and course of study information. Instructions Active Princeton Students Log in to TigerHub to submit your request. Alumni and Former Students (Graduated 2014 - today) Request a TigerNet ID, if you do not have one. Log in to TigerHub to submit your request. If you prefer to use our PDF form, follow the instructions below. Alumni and Former Students (prior to 2014) Download and print the Transcript Request PDF Form. Mail or fax it to the Registrar's Office using the address on the form. Can’t log in or access the form? Mail or fax a written request, including your name, class year, signature, and the address to which your transcript should be sent. Office of the Registrar 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Fax: 609-258-6328 Replacement Diploma or Certificate Form Use for: Replacement documents Instructions Submit a notarized Application for Replacement Diploma or Program Certificate form. Include a check or money order in U.S. dollars made payable to Princeton University: Replacement Diploma - $75; Replacement Program Certificate - $30. If available, the damaged diploma or program certificate must be returned along with the replacement request. Replacement Form Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility