Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Office of the Registrar We've Moved! The Office of the Registrar is located at: Helm Building 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Virtual Office Hours Please visit our Virtual Office Hours hosted Monday through Friday from 1:00 pm EST to 3:00 pm EST, excluding University holidays. You may also contact us at any time via email: registrar@princeton.edu. We will respond during normal business hours. Supporting Princeton's diverse academic community The Office of the Registrar is responsible for the maintenance, security, and release of student academic records. Additionally, we coordinate services in the areas of course information, course selection, grading, concentration declaration, degree progress, classroom assignment, certification of enrollment and degrees awarded, administration of final examinations. We provide robust University reporting and research functions in support of academic planning and advising. Many student and faculty academic services are available online via secure web resources which may be accessed from this site. Students and faculty may also come to our office in the Helm Building for information and for individual services. Course Offerings Order Transcripts Enrollment and Degree Verification Dates and Deadlines Academic Calendar Continuing Graduate Student Fall Term Course Selection reopens at 7:00am Monday, August 1, 2022 Continuing Graduate Student Academic Year Sign-In Period Begins at 7:00am Monday, August 1, 2022 New Graduate Student Academic Year Sign-In Period Begins at 7:00am Saturday, August 20, 2022 New Graduate Student Fall Term Course Selection reopens at 7:00am Saturday, August 20, 2022 View Full Calendar Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility