Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Final Exams Final Exam Policy Section Menu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request The Committee on Examinations and Standing has delegated the responsibility for short-term postponements of in-class final exams to the Office of the Registrar. Individual faculty members may not authorize postponements or preponements of final examinations. Authorization: A request to reschedule an in-class exam is authorized by the Registrar under very few circumstances: Religious Obligations Personal emergencies (considered case-by-case) More than one examination scheduled on the same day New Exam Timing: Examinations will normally be rescheduled the day immediately following the day of the scheduled examination. Only under the most extraordinary circumstance will an examination be rescheduled to a day prior to the regularly scheduled exam time. Authorization Notification: The Registrar’s authorization notification will indicate the date, time, and location of the rescheduled exam. Faculty responsibilities: In circumstances in which the Office of the Registrar administers a rescheduled examination, the faculty member in charge of the course must make a copy of the examination available to the Registrar. Overcrowded Final Examination Schedules Exams can potentially be rescheduled under the following circumstances: Two exams in one day: Students with two in-class exams on the same day may submit an application to the Registrar to postpone one exam until the following day. Three exams over two days: A student who has two in-class examinations on the same day and a single examination on the following day has the option of moving the second scheduled exam on the first day to the second day and moving the examination scheduled for the second day to the following day, resulting in an examination schedule of one examination per day in three successive days. Illness and Final Examinations A student who feels too sick to take an examination must report to University Health Service (UHS) prior to the scheduled examination time and email the Deputy Registrar, Justin T. Bronfeld. If UHS staff confirms to the Deputy Registrar that the student is incapable of taking the examination at the time, there are two possible outcomes: Short-term postponement: If the student recovers sufficiently, they may take the same examination within 24 hours of the originally scheduled time. The Deputy Registrar will notify the student of the new time and place of the rescheduled examination. Longer-Term postponement: If the student is so ill that a long-term postponement is needed, the student should contact their Dean as well as the Deputy Registrar. All postponed exams are rescheduled for the week prior to the start of the next term. Falling Ill during an Exam A student who begins an examination will, except in the rarest of circumstances, be held accountable for taking the examination and will be assigned a grade based on the work completed on that examination. Therefore, any student who becomes ill during an examination should try their best to complete it. A student whose condition is so serious that it requires urgent medical attention should report immediately to UHS. Students should be aware that falling ill during an examination will rarely be cause for rescheduling. Under truly extraordinary circumstances, a student requiring medical attention during an examination may petition the Committee on Examinations and Standing to take a make-up at a later date. Students should understand that exceptions are rarely granted and that there must be compelling medical evidence that continuing the examination was not an option. Inadvertently Missed Exams If a student misses a scheduled in-class final exam by mistake, they must report immediately to their residential college dean or director of studies. Only once during a student’s undergraduate Princeton career will an inadvertently missed exam be rescheduled and then only under the following conditions: Missing the exam was reported immediately, within a 24-hour period There are no previously inadvertently missed exams The student is making satisfactory progress in the course There is no evidence that the student is seeking to gain an advantage A contract must be signed and attached to the exam; the contract is subject to approval of the instructor. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility