Office of the Registrar Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Office of the Registrar Main Menu Menu Student and Alumni Services SubMenu Transcript and Verification Services SubMenu Calculate Your GPA First Year Course Selection Course Selection SubMenu Undergraduate Course Selection Graduate Course Selection Adding or Dropping Courses P/D/F and Grade Option Selection Concentration Declaration Senior Checkout Veterans Diplomas Policies SubMenu Data Privacy Name Preferences Summer Undergraduate Internship Milestone Credit Faculty and Department Resources SubMenu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Course Offerings SubMenu Search New Courses Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship Courses Summer Programs Classrooms Academic Calendar and Deadlines Final Exams SubMenu Final Exam Schedule Policy Reschedule Request TigerHub About Us Contact Us Forms Catalogs Search Search Home Faculty and Department Resources Examinations and Grading Section Menu Examinations and Grading SubMenu Examination and Grading Dates Grading Practices Conduct of Courses Secure Resources Here you will find key information regarding final examination dates and grading practices at Princeton. Examination and Grading Dates Find important end-of-term dates, as well as deadlines for the submission of grades for coursework, exams, and independent work. Fall and Spring Dates Grading Practices Review the University’s official grading practices for undergraduate and graduate students, including authorized grading symbols, A+ or F grades, and more. Grading Practices Grade Change Policy ODOC: Grading at Princeton Conduct of Courses Princeton’s procedures for conducting courses, including tests, exams, and grading, are institutionally specific. We encourage you to review these procedures regularly. Policy A+ and Failure Statements Final grades of A+ and F, assigned to undergraduates, must be accompanied by an A+ and Failure Statement, respectively, and be submitted by the instructor-in-charge of the course. To submit your A+ and/or Failure Statement, including those for the A.B. junior independent work and the senior thesis, log onto the secure ODOC page. A+ and Failure Statements for the senior departmental exam should be submitted on paper. Forms are available in your departmental office, which you may send via campus mail to the Office of the Registrar. Footer Office of the Registrar Princeton University 330 Alexander Street, 4th floor Princeton, NJ 08540 Contact Phone: (609) 258-3361 Fax: (609) 258-6328 Email: registrar@princeton.edu Office Hours Academic Year: 8:45 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Quicklinks Registrar Functions (Registrar staff only) Community Auditing University Enrollment Statistics Data Sets © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Accessibility