Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving University Registrar Toggle navigation Site Menu Current Records Overview Status & Retention Drop/Add Service Indicators Enrollment Cancellation Grade Services Deans' Directory Publications Overview Bulletin Info Registration Guide Info Campus Map Info Course Descriptions Calendars Graduation Overview Graduation Checklist Ceremony Information Diplomas Degrees of Distinction Update Expected Grad Term FAQ Student Services Overview Graduation Transcripts Certification State Employee Fee Waiver FERPA Course Descriptions Scheduling Overview Curriculum Academic Space Class Search Archive Bulletin Undergraduate Graduate Registration Guide Past Editions Frequently Asked Questions Home Graduation FAQ Graduation Information Overview Graduation Checklist Important Dates Cap and Gown Information Ceremony Information Parking Information Commencement Schedule by College Guest Tickets & Grad Passes Degrees of Distinction Diploma Information Certified Electronic Diploma CeDiploma Diploma Validation Transcripts Commencement Program as a PDF Update Expected Grad Term Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Q: When should I apply for an academic progress check? A: When you reach 90 hours, including your current enrollment, both the Registrar's Office and your academic dean's office must perform an academic progress check. A stop will be placed on future registration and will only be cleared by applying at both offices for the academic progress check. The following students are exempt from the requirement: students who have already requested the academic progress check and those students with prior bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degrees. Q: If I have an Associates Degree do I need to apply for an academic progress check? A: Yes. We check for university and state requirements, as well as liberal studies requirements. Q: What fees are associated with an application for graduation? A: None. Q: When should I apply for graduation? A: Specific dates are published on the Registrar's website or can be obtained by calling (850) 644-1050. Q: Does a University academic progress check clear a student for graduation? A: No. The student must schedule and complete an academic progress check with his or her department and academic dean's office to ensure major requirements are met. Q: What is the difference between a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science degree? A: A BA degree requires twelve semester hours of a foreign language or coursework through the 2200 intermediate level and nine additional semester hours after completion of liberal studies requirements in Art; Classical or Modern Languages and Literature; and Communication. Students should check with their college for specific requirements. Q: I missed the deadline to apply for graduation. What do I do? A: Go to your academic dean's office, notify them of your intent to graduate, and obtain permission to apply late for that semester's graduation. Q: I missed the deadline to order my cap and gown. What do I do? A: Call the University Bookstore at (850) 644-2072. Q. What is the foreign language admission requirement? A. Every student admitted to a Florida university must show proof of completing two years of the same foreign language in high school or of completing eight hours of the same language in college to graduate and receive a diploma. This is not to be confused with the Bachelor of Arts degree requirement (see above). Q: Do my guests need tickets to enter the Tucker Center for the graduation ceremony? A: Any person over the age of two requires a ticket to enter the Civic Center for the graduation ceremony. Q: How do I request special accommodations for myself or guests? A: If you are attending a commencement ceremony and require accommodations, please contact the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) at 850-644-9566 or oas@fsu.edu in advance to make special arrangements. An ASL interpreter may be provided upon request with 4-6 weeks advanced notice. Closed captioning is also provided on the arena corner boards. Q: What is a Grad Pass and why do I need it? A: A Grad Pass is your unique entry pass for your ceremony. Due to recent events, FSU and Tucker Center administrators have partnered to enhance safety measures for our commencement ceremonies. All participating graduates are required to present their unique Grad Pass to ensure graduation is enjoyable and safe for everyone. Q: Will Face masks be required? A: Face masks are recommended, but not required. Q: What COVID 19 Protocols are in place? A: We are instituting a number of COVID 19 protocols in order to keep everyone safe. This includes face masks, social distancing, sanitizing regularly and between ceremonies. For a full list of COVID 19 Policies and Procedures at the Donald L. Tucker Center, please visit https://www.tuckerciviccenter.com/plan-your-visit/covid-19-policies-procedures Mailing Address A3900 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2480 Email Registrar - registrar@fsu.edu Phone 850.644.1050 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright