Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the University Registrar An office in Enrollment Management Search form Search Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Menu Home Calendar Services Course & Room Scheduling Overview Auditoriums Auditorium Request Auditorium Utilization Report for Spring 2023 Classrooms » Course Catalog » Deadlines Exams Final Exam Policies & Guidelines Special Exam Policies Final Exams for Online and Non-Regular Courses Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule Room Scheduling System (25 Live) » Room Reservations Event Room Reservation Request Schedule of Classes » Scheduling Officer Information Short Courses Standard Meeting Times Definitions for Course Components Scheduling Forms & Documents Enrollment Overview Add/Drop a Class Add/Drop/Withdraw Forms Approvals and Deadlines Drop Checklist Continuing Students New Students Readmitted Students Visiting Students and High School Dual Enrollment Late Enrollment Withdraw Considerations Effects of Dropping or Withdrawing on your Transcript Prior to Start of Semester After the Start of the Semester At the End of the Semester Withdrawal Form Medical and Compassionate Withdrawal Enrollment Resources Enrollment Status Maximum Enrollment Hours Enrollment Holds Schedule Builder Schedule of Classes » Records Overview Enrollment Certification Loan Deferments » Delegate Access Student Instructions Delegate Instructions Staff Instructions Grades Grade Definitions Grade Point Averages Parent and Guardian Grade Reports Enroll & Pay How-To's » Graduation Diplomas Statement of Degree Statement of Forthcoming Degree KU 150 Diploma KU ID Number Personal Information & Privacy Making Updates Student Data Request Transcripts Order a Transcript Charges and Delivery Options Transcript FAQ Electronic Transcript FAQ Transcript Key Records Forms University Seal Apostille Residency Overview Residency Definition Frequently Asked Questions Residency Application Appeals Armed Forces Residency Benefit Haskell Residency Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Overview Comprehensive Fee Schedule Archive CFS (2020-21) CFS (2019-20) CFS (2018-19) CFS (2017-18) CFS (2016-17) CFS (2015-16) CFS (2014-15) CFS (2013-14) CFS (2012-13) Fee Privileges Brochure Fee Petition Appeals Tuition and Fee Waiver Forms Class Supply Fee Opt-Out Request Loan Deferment Residency People About Overview Hours & Location Accreditation Reports University Reporting Contact us Forms Sitemap Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search form Search Home Services Registrar Services Add/Drop a Class The following information provides directions on adding, dropping, or changing sections of classes. If you are dropping your only class or all of your classes, then you should visit the withdrawal page of this website. Changes to your schedule can be done via Enroll & Pay. After online enrollment closes, a schedule change form may be required to make schedule changes. Add/Drop Approval for Fall 2018 Add/Drop Approval for Spring 2019 Add/Drop Approval for Summer 2018 Course and Room Scheduling Course and Room Scheduling, a division of the Office of the University Registrar, oversees the production and publication of the Schedule of Classes. Responsible for the data entry of approved Course Catalog information into the Enroll & Pay system. We are also responsible for the publication of the Final and Special Exam schedules. Diplomas If you have applied for graduation, the Office of the University Registrar will automatically place an order for your original (first) diploma. This order is defaulted to pick up. If you need to modify your order to update your diploma method please do so by following the "Modify a Diploma Delivery Request" on Page 4 of the Diploma Delivery instructions. Enrollment Here you will find information relating to enrollment at the University of Kansas. This includes particular activities such as schedule changes and withdraw as well as enrollment guides for current, new, readmitted, and visiting students. Enrollment Certification The University of Kansas participates in the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC) located in Herndon, VA. Four times a semester (after the second day of classes, at approximately 20th day, mid semester, and after finals) KU submits a secure FTP (File Transfer Protocol) of students' enrollment status to the NSC who then supplies verification to lending agencies. All loan deferment forms are now forwarded to the NSC. The University does not supply information directly to lending agencies. Exams Final and special examination schedules are published by the Office of the University Registrar. Times for examinations are set by KU Policy and by the University Governance Calendar Committee. Questions regarding these schedules can be directed to scheduling@ku.edu. Any exceptions to these schedules requires Calendar Committee approval. Grades The Office of the University Registrar is responsible for the official collection, recording, and maintanence of grades. All grades are posted via Enroll & Pay. Student questions about a grade should start with the instructor or department, while faculty with questions should reach out to our office. Policies regarding grades can be found in the KU Policy Library. Graduation The University of Kansas confers degrees three times a year to undergraduate and law students who have met all requirements by the last day of final examinations for each of three terms: fall semester, spring semester, and summer session. Students must apply for graduation by signing into Enroll & Pay. After logging in, click on Enroll and Pay in the main menu, then click on Degree Progress/Graduation. Click on KU Apply for Graduation. Visit Commencement for more information. Records The University of Kansas and the Office of the University Registrar maintains official records of personal, financial and academic records. Contact information can be adjusted via self-service in Enroll & Pay while the change, release, or withholding of other information requires a form be submitted to our office. Residency Resident tuition classification is determined by criteria found in Kansas statutes and regulations of the Kansas Board of Regents. Students are responsible for providing information sufficient to support their applications for resident classification. This is a general overview of the procedures and criteria used to determine resident status. It does not replace or supersede the statutes or Regents' regulations which contain the detailed requirements that must be met in order to prove resident status. Room Reservations Course & Room Scheduling, a division of the Office of the University Registrar, handles all daytime, evening and weekend scheduling of centrally scheduled classrooms. All reservations are subject to existing University policies and restrictions. Use of centrally scheduled classroom space will only be permitted by University schools and departments or by recognized student groups that are in good standing with the Office of Student Involvement and Leadership. Use the room reservation form to begin a reservation request. Transcripts Transcript requests are usually processed between one and three business days after the Office of the University Registrar receives the request, unless rush processing-same day service is requested. Rush processing-same day transcript requests ordered by 12:00 p.m. CST will be processed the same day. Transcripts ordered after 12:00 p.m. CST will be available the next business day. You will be notified by email when the transcript has been processed and is available. No orders will be processed when the Office of the University Registrar is closed. Tuition and Fees The Office of the University Registrar is responsible for assessing Tuition and Fees. Tuition and fee amounts charged by the University of Kansas are approved by the Kansas Board of Regents annually and listed in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule. This office also handles any petitions of assessed fees and tuition and fee waivers. Any questions regarding bills or payments of bills should be directed to Student Account Services in Room 1 Carruth O'Leary. Withdraw Withdrawing from the University of Kansas can have a number of consequences beyond leaving courses. Please select the appropriate checklist and follow the steps indicated to ensure that the process goes as smoothly as possible. Prior to withdrawing from KU, please be sure to see the academic calendar for withdrawal and refund deadlines. In addition, there are a number of items to consider before withdrawing. KU Academic Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. University Registrar Updates October 13, 2021 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2021-2022) October 13, 2020 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2020-2021) October 2, 2019 Notification of Rights Under FERPA (2019-2020) Read more updates Hawk Help: Ask a Question Enrollment Enroll & Pay is the University of Kansas' online campus solution for enrollment, financial and other services. The Online Schedule of Classes Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Office of the University Registrar registrar@ku.edu 785-864-4423 785-864-3900 1502 Iowa Street Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login