Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of the Registrar Calendars Courses & Classrooms Exams & Grading Enrollment & Registration Graduation Transcripts Our Team Home Contact Search Menu Home › A-Z Directory A-Z Directory All Alumni Departments and Faculty Students A B C D E F G I L M N O R S T V W A Academic Calendars Past, current, and future Academic Code The Academic Code; A Guide to Student Life. Hoynes Code Law School policies. Academic Course Management Tool (ACM Tool) This application is used to add new courses to the Course Catalog and to submit courses for University Core Curriculum review. Under the Forms heading, choose either (1) New Course or (2) New University Requirement. Academic Course Management Tool (ACM Tool) Instructions Instructions for ACM. Academic Services Calendar 2021-22 Subject to Change This calendar is assembled and published as a service by the Office of the Registrar. It is intended as a planning aid for academic offices. Address Changes: Alumni Who to contact in case your address changes. Address Changes: Students Who to contact in case your address changes. AdHoc Report Instructions Instructions for using the AdHoc report tool. Advisor List for Undergraduates A list of major/minor advisors and contacts. Apostille Apostille process for diplomas and transcripts. Auditing a Class Graduate, Graduate Business, and Law students. Back to top B Banner Functions Reference Sheet Building Codes Building names and codes Bulletins of Information Undergraduate, Law, and Graduate School bulletins in PDF format Back to top C Campus Codes The list of program location codes for off-campus studies CIF - Course Instructor Feedback CIP Codes Classification of Instructional Program Codes Class Rank Rank in Class Classroom Information General Purpose rooms with size, structure, technology, and operating hour information Classroom Requests: Departments & Faculty Information on departments obtaining permission to reserve a classroom. Classroom Requests: Students Information on student groups obtaining permission to reserve a classroom. Classroom Utilization Guidelines Standard guidelines to assist departments in course scheduling. Class Searches Class Times Standard class times Commencement/Graduation Commencement, Graduation, and Diploma information as well as dates and procedures. Core University Requirement Reviews Core University Requirements Course Attributes System codes used to categorize sections Course Descriptions How to get the original descriptions from courses taken as printed in the past "Bulletins of Information". Course Instructor Feedback (CIF) Course Numbering Information regarding the course renumbering system for SCT Banner. Curricula list Majors, minors, and concentrations. Back to top D Dean's Honor List Minimum gpa needed each semester to achieve Dean's Honor List. Degree Audit Department Exam Schedules Tuesday/Thursday department examination schedule. Diploma Name Protocol Back to top E eForms Academic Forms: Separation From University, Leave of Absence, Curriculum Changes Electronic Student File (ESF) Advising procedures, documentation, and training guides for using the ESF. Employee Educational Benefit Policies and procedures for academic year and summer session. Exam Information Exam schedules, room assignments, and general information. Exam Schedules Final and Departmental examination schedules Back to top F Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Each year the University of Notre Dame is required to give notice of the various rights accorded to students pursuant to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Final Exam Schedule Football Ticket Information Or call (574) 631-7356 Back to top G Google Groups for types of students (i.e. juniors)/ListServ Instructions Request a ListServ and Google Groups for types of students (i.e., Junior Finance majors) Grade Change Procedure Grade Reporting Instructions Mid-Term, Final, and Upload Tool Grading Information/GPA Calculation Process Graduation Progress System (GPS) Back to top I ID Card Information regarding the student identification card. Back to top L Latin Honors Latin Honors Historical Information Historical Graduation Honors GPA from 1942 to current. Leave of Absence Academic regulation regarding the Leave of Absence Policy. ListServ/Pre-Populated Google Group Instructions Request a ListServ and Google Groups for types of students (i.e., Junior Finance majors) Back to top M Majors, Minors, Concentrations List of current Curricula. Back to top N Name changes for students ND Roll Call Information pertinent to the next semester's attendance. ND/SMC Co-Exchange Instructions and Intent form NetID Information for new students, faculty, and staff Back to top O Online Photo On-line class lists with ID pictures Back to top R Records Retention Schedules Registration Information Replacement Diploma The procedure for getting a replacement diploma. Reporting Information Student information in AdHoc format through insideND for deans, academic departments and advisors. Back to top S Separation Information Information and procedures for withdrawal from the University. Study Abroad/Off Campus Programs course report Summer Session Summer Session grading (netID login required) Back to top T Term Codes (e.g., 202010 = Fall 2020) Training & Support View training tutorials, support and access information, and documentation Transcript What to do to get a copy of your transcript. Back to top V Variable Credit Hour changes How do I change my credit hours in Novo? Verification/Loan Deferment Where to verify attendance for loan deferments, insurance, scholarships, etc. Veteran Affairs Information Back to top W Withdrawal Information and procedures for withdrawal from the University. Back to top Home Calendars Courses & Classrooms Exams & Grading Enrollment & Registration Graduation Transcripts Our Team A-Z Directory Department Resources Office of the Registrar 300 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-7043 Fax 574-631-3865 registrar.1@nd.edu © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn