Skip to main content Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available to our patients. Sign up for Connect today to schedule your vaccination. Continue your routine care with us by scheduling an in-person appointment or Video Visit. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options Our Physicians For Patients Education & ResearchToggle Education & Research menu options Research AlumniToggle Alumni menu options Alumni by class Photo Gallery Contact & Locations Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us For Patients Education & Research Contact & Locations Patient Care Highest quality of patient care READ MORE Education Dedicated to a higher standard of education and training READ MORE Research Our mission is to advance the science of rehabilitation READ MORE Weill Cornell Rehabilitation Medicine News & Events May 23, 2022 Sports for Kids: Staying Active and Healthy Katherine Yao M.D. and Ben King M.D. discuss how you can help your kids stay active by getting them involved in regular physical activity. They share great tips on the benefits of healthy activities for kids, how Covid-19 has affected youth sports, and why participating in any type of physical activity is so important, especially at a young age. Read More September 13, 2021 Dr. Joel Stein Discuss the Importance and Value of Inpatient Medical Rehabilitation Thank you to the American Medical Rehabilitation Providers Association (AMRPA) for having Dr. Read More Read more past news and events here In 2013 Dr. Jaspal Singh has been named the Willibald Nagler Clinic Scholar in Rehabilitation Medicine by Dean Laurie Glimcher. This scholarship recognizes Dr. Singh's work in patients with discogenic pain and epidural steroid injections. Rehabilitation Medicine at NewYork-Presbyterian University Hospital of Columbia and Cornell was ranked one of the best specialties in U.S. News Dr. Joel Stein, Dr. Michael O'Dell, and Dr. Chi-Chang Lin were listed among New York's Best Doctors. Chairman's Message The Department of Rehabilitation Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College is in the midst of an exciting growth phase in the three key aspects of its mission: patient care, education, and research. Together with the closely allied Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine at Columbia University and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, along with our affiliated institutions comprising Burke Rehabilitation Hospital, The Hospital for Special Surgery and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, we have expanded both our breadth and depth of expertise in all of these areas. Read more Current patients on Weill Cornell CONNECT can login to request an appointment, review past appointments, view test results, contact the office, and more. Sign In Subscribe to get a free email newsletter Sign Up About our Physicians What is a Physiatrist? Maps & Directions Related Links NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital's Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Rehabilition Medicine at Lower Manhattan Hospital Schedule an Appointment We offer two convenient options: Call us at (212) 746-1500 or Request an appointment online Donate Support the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine today! Make a donation online Contact Us Mon - Fri from 8am - 5pm Phone: (212) 746-1500 | Fax: (212) 746-8303 or Contact us online Our Location Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Contact Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Rehabiliation Medicine 525 East 68th St., 16th Floor New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-1500 Fax: (212) 746-8303 About Us Our Physicians For Patients Education & Research Research Alumni Contact & Locations Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance