Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Dragmouth 2021 Share Seattle Drag Performers Take to the Stage at Collis A free drag show at Collis Common Ground Friday night featured three performers from Seattle. "Dragmouth" was presented by the Department of Religion in collaboration with the Office of Pluralism and Leadership. The evening concluded with a discussion and Q&A facilitated by Sara Swenson, an assistant professor in religion. The show wrapped up with a Q&A on gender, religion, and performance. PreviousNext On Friday, November 5th, the event organizers of "Dragmouth" stood outside Collis Common Ground, debating how to bar entry. The room was nearing capacity. A group of students hurried through the door just as Collis staff assumed their posts to turn away any more attendees. Inside, friends and classmates greeted one another while searching for seats. A performance artist in a pink ballgown appeared to rally the crowd. "We're running on drag time," the artist joked, explaining a ten-minute delay start. The disco ball shifted pink to match her gown. The music increased volume. Then, the tone shifted. The lights dropped to a gentle blue and a spotlight lit the first performer. The drag show, "Dragmouth," was presented by Dartmouth's Department of Religion in Collaboration with the Office of Pluralism and Leadership. The performance featured three professional artists from Seattle's avant-garde drag scene. Three Dartmouth student performers joined the stage with their own numbers. The night concluded with a Q&A on gender, religion, and performance, hosted by Assistant Professor in Religion, Sara Swenson. Swenson originally invited the Seattle artists to visit her class, Rel 1.11 "Sisters, Sages, Seekers: Women and Religion" for a Zoom discussion. When she mentioned the guest speakers to fellow Religion faculty, she was encouraged to bring the speakers to campus and host a show. Three artists – Miss Texas 1988, One, and Sugar Darling – accepted the invitation. Swenson opened the Q&A by reflecting, "In 'Sisters, Sages, Seekers' we explore how women and sexual minorities around the world create communities of belonging and make life meaningful. Sometimes we call that religion. Sometimes we call that spirituality. Sometimes we call that drag." After an initial flurry of request for Venmo and Instagram account information, the discussion returned to this theme; a student in the back row asked what advice the performers had for living authentically and finding community. Each of the Seattle and Dartmouth performers offered deep personal responses. A student performer recommended seeking out supportive friends. A Seattle artist added that true support included celebration and encouragement. Another Seattle artist suggested finding support by offering it to others. They proposed that attending and organizing events were effective ways to attract a mutually caring community. The next Seattle artist offered an introspective approach, stating, "Trust your instincts." Take criticism, they said, but always with a grain of salt. "Stay on your path." Two additional student performers emphasized finding friends who were appreciative of authenticity and who "push you to try new things." The Q&A built on subjects examined during the Seattle artists' class visit to Rel 1.11. The performers reflected on ways that drag allowed them to address religious trauma. All three grew up in religious contexts with gender roles they had experienced as restrictive and harmful. Their performances occasionally incorporate religious themes, figures, and rituals to confront these experiences through art. At the same time, they discussed how drag scenes serve a religious function by fostering community gatherings, ritual practices, and senses of fulfillment. The conversation illustrated ways of thinking about religion both as a category of power in society and as a process of meaning-making that people can shape. These shapes took form in the evening drag show. The numbers featured critiques on gender and consumerism alongside themes of love, play, and "the spirituality of nature." "It was absolutely phenomenal," Swenson concluded. Tags: Department of Religion Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback