Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) COVID-19 Update Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Memorial Church is currently closed for tours and visits. The Church is open for scheduled religious observances, weddings, memorials, concerts, and events. For more information, please see our listing of events. Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life Search this site Submit Search Menu Welcome to ORSL Learn More About Us ORSL Staff Events & Services Concerts Memorial Services Memorial Service FAQs Religious Services Baptisms Holy Day Services at Memorial Church Weekly Christian Services during the Academic Year at Memorial Church Weddings Wedding Information Wedding FAQs Wedding Music Memorial Church & Companion Spaces Memorial Church Memorial Church History Memorial Church Inscriptions Memorial Church Layout Memorial Church Organs Memorial Church Quatrefoils Visit Memorial Church Docent-led Tours of Memorial Church Memorial Church Directions Photography Policy CIRCLE Multi-Faith Center Windhover Contemplative Center About Windhover The Art The Contemplation Center Labyrinth Visit Windhover Contemplative Center Windhover Dedication ORSL Courses Make a Gift Belonging & Community Celebrating Stanford: Baccalaureate Meeting the Moment About Meeting the Moment 2020-21 Fellows 2021-22 Fellows Press Stanford Associated Religions (SAR) Student Groups Interfaith Opportunities Programs & Events In Person Gatherings ORSL Spiritual Care Music from MemChu Stanford Associated Religions (SAR) Student Groups Windhover Contemplative Programs Queerness, Spirituality, and Religion Speaker Series Religious & Spiritual Life University Public Worship Religious Observances Religious Calendar Religious Dietary Accommodations Stanford Associated Religions (SAR) Student Groups Baha’i Buddhist Christian Hindu Jewish Multi-Faith Muslim Sikh Unitarian Universalist Spiritual Wellness Contemplative Programs Crafting a Meaningful Life About Harry and Emilia Rathbun Rathbun Program Offerings Meeting the Moment Rathbun Fellowship for Religious Encounter Rathbun Past Lectures Rathbun Youth Activism Summit What Matters to Me and Why Grieving at Stanford Spiritual Resources Anti-Asian Violence Avoiding Unhealthy Religious Organizations Black Lives Matter Centers of Equity, Community and Leadership Resources Faith Based Resources to Confront Anti-Black Racism On Campus Support Resources Ways to Take Action Spiritual Care and Counseling Wisdom for the Way Main content start Our Mission is “To guide, nurture and enhance spiritual and religious life within the Stanford University community.” Whoever you are, wherever you are on your journey, we are here for you! What We Believe • Welcoming and Inclusive: Fostering space where all feel welcomed, included, and represented. • Care and Compassion: Nurturing communities that offer support, care, and guidance from a place of unconditional positive regard. • Diversity and Equity: Ensuring our programs, events, and communities are both diverse and equitable, not simply in demographics but in systemic structures. • Purposeful Living: Cultivating communities in which people can flourish and develop lives of meaning, purpose, and belonging. • Student Centered: Giving primary focus and attention to student development, student needs, student gifts, and student interests. • Collaborative: Working across campus to integrate the work of spiritual life into all aspects of University life. Learn More About US ORSL Statement on the Bombing in Peshawar The Office for Religious and Spiritual Life extends its condolences to the Muslim community on campus and around the world for the 64 lives lost in the mosque bombing in Peshawar. The limited coverage is especially painful in the continued marginalization of the Muslim community. Learn More Talk with a Chaplain Spiritual (Pastoral) care is a type of care and counseling provided by spiritual leaders. It involves nonjudgmental and compassionate listening that allows people to share their joys, concerns, and hopes in the context of their full humanity, and for many, their spirituality or philosophy. It has the goal of fostering a person’s spiritual and existential wellbeing, and, if desired, it can include spiritual guidance, scripture study, and prayer or meditation. It can provide an opportunity for confidential conversation in the context of a holistic network of support. Sign Up Here Resources for Our Communities Student Affairs offers our communities support and we are continually seeking ways in which we can provide resources to those who may need it, whether on or off campus. Learn More Events Embed Code See all events Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life Web Login Address Office of Religious & Spiritual Life Stanford Memorial Church 450 Jane Stanford Way, Bldg 500 Stanford, CA 94305 United States Make a Gift Visit Campus Map (650) 723-1762 stanfordorsl@stanford.edu Office of Religious & Spiritual Life on Facebook Office of Religious & Spiritual Life on Instagram Office of Religious & Spiritual Life on Twitter Quick Links Meeting the Moment Memorial Church & Services Programs & Events Stanford Associated Religions (SAR) Student Groups Windhover Resources for Student Affairs Health Alerts Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top