Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Honors Program Career Information Alumni Stories Awards and Prizes Alumni Tell Us Your News Dartmouth Career Network Jobs & Internships Graduate & Professional Schools Share Career Information Life After Dartmouth What Do Religion Majors Do? Out of the 161 Religion major alumni that responded to a Career Services survey: 29% (47 alums) are in the field of medicine. Of that group 7 held administrative positions. The rest were all practicing—not necessarily MDs, as there were chiropractors and psychologists in the lot. Most of them listed their job as "physician" but for the ones who didn't, the majority (5) were involved in the field of mental health, either psychologist, psychiatrist, or social worker. 19% (30 alums) are in the field of education. Of those 30, 14 were administrative jobs such as dean or principal, and 16 were teaching jobs. Of the 16 teachers, 11 had further degrees, 4 of which were in divinity or theology. 10.5% (17 alums) are lawyers. 7% (11 alums) work for investment firms. 4% (7 alums) have government jobs ranging from the US Embassy to the Alaska Fire Services. Less than 3% (5 alums) are in each of the following fields or companies: advertising, airlines, banking, chemical, computing, consulting, self-employed authors, department stores, energy/power, food processing and distribution, hotels/resorts, insurance, law enforcement, military, pharmaceuticals, philanthropic organizations, public relations, publishing houses, and telecommunications. Those are the miscellaneous categories. And finally, 4% (6 alums) in the ministry. They all had further degrees: 4 Masters of Divinity, 1 Master of Theology, and 1 Bachelor of Sacred Theology. See also Dartmouth College Career Services for more. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback