/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Study Courses Honors Program Weiner Family Summer Fellowship Faculty About Us Contacts The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Exploring religious traditions in all of their complexity Religious Studies Program We explore religious traditions in all of their complexity through comparative, contextual and thematic studies. Our courses are built on the established scholarly tradition of the study of religion as an academic, as opposed to a confessional, pursuit. Popular Destinations Undergraduate Major Courses Faculty About Us News 'I study the impacts of light pollution on the natural world, human health and society' Benjamin Velani is a Religious Studies and Government major. Read More First cohort of A&S Nexus Scholars chosen for summer research positions Fifty undergrads in the College of Arts & Sciences will take part in paid research projects in Ithaca this summer with faculty from throughout the College. Read More Fall 2022 Religious Studies Courses of Interest Pre-enrollment for Fall 2022 begins later this month. See a selection of the courses we are offering! Read More Call for applications: 2021-22 Joseph E. Connolly ’72 Memorial Prizes for undergraduate essays on religion and politics/society Undergraduate students interested in the intersection of religion and politics or society can now apply for a new prize, to be given out next spring. Read More Mokhtarian co-organizes conference on magic bowls Registration is required to attend this virtual conference on April 4 and 5! Although known to specialists since the nineteenth century, the Aramaic incantation bowls have never been fully integrated into the field of Jewish Studies, largely due to their inaccessibility and the confounding nature of... Read More Alumna unearths benefits of green burial in video Solina Kennedy '19 interviews Professor Jane-Marie Law for a new video, based on information she learned in a Cornell class. Read More Alumni gift to A&S supports doctoral students in the humanities A $5 million alumni gift will help to support doctoral students in humanities fields within the College of Arts & Sciences. Read More Nexus Scholars Program applications now open The program connects undergraduates in A&S with opportunities to work side by side on research with Cornell faculty from across the College. Read More More News Events Jun 10 Medicine in the Talmud Goldwin Smith Hall See all events Declare a major in religious studies Interested in a specific religious tradition? Want to learn more about religious rituals throughout history and in the contemporary world? Consider a minor or a major in religious studies! Graduate with honors in religious studies The honors program is open to religious studies majors who have done superior work and who wish to devote a substantial part of their senior year to advanced, specialized, independent research and writing of a thesis. Take a class Start with "Religion and Ecological Sustainability" (RELST 2273) or "Sensational Religion" (RELST 2276) or take one of the many other survey courses or seminars we offer. Apply for a summer Fellowship Given in honor of Gelek Rimpoche the Weiner Family Summer Fellowship supports funding for summer experiential learning and research for an undergraduate student studying Buddhist practice. Get program updates We send regular e-newsletters during the academic school year. Join our email list Support religious studies at Cornell Your support enables the program to enhance the experience for undergraduate students. Gifts can help fund lectures and conferences, student research, distinguished speakers, and other program priorities. We will greatly appreciate and immediately put into use any gift, no matter the amount. Please consider a donation to the program Current Use Gift Fund. 409 White Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Religious Studies Program 607-255-6275 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top