Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Dickinson Seminar Share Dickinson Distinguished Lecture The Dickinson Distinguished Lecture is presented annually by a distinguished scholar who has made a significant impact upon the study of religion. In addition to presenting a public lecture to the community, the visiting scholar engages with students in the Dickinson seminar and critiques their papers. The Dickinson Distinguished Scholar Seminar in Fall term 2012, convened by Professor Susannah Heschel The Dickinson Distinguished Scholar Seminar in Spring term 2012, convened by Professor Nancy Frankenberry The Dickinson Distinguished Scholar Seminar in Spring term 2009, convened by Professor Gil Raz The Dickinson Distinguished Scholar Seminar in Spring term 2004, convened by Professor Reiko Ohnuma The Dickinson Distinguished Scholar Seminar in Spring term 2007, convened by Professor Susannah Heschel PreviousNext Previous Dickinson Fellows Term Faculty Instructor Dickinson Lecture Title Distinguished Visitor 12F Susannah Heschel Eastern Wisdom in an Era of Despair: Orientalism in 1920s Central Europe Suzanne Marchand (Louisiana State University) 12S Nancy Frankenberry Joseph Smith and the Discovery of the Golden Plates Ann Taves (University of California, Santa Barbara 09S Gil Raz This Foreign Religion of Ours: (Mis)Translation East and West, Medieval and Modern Stephen R. Bokenkamp (Arizona State University) 08S Reiko Ohnuma From Stone to Flesh: The European Encounter with the Buddha Donald S. Lopez, Jr. (University of Michigan) 07S Susannah Heschel The End of History and the Last Jew: Apocalypse and Anti-Semitism from the Middle Ages to Left Behind Lisa Lampert-Weissig (University of California, San Diego) 04S Reiko Ohnuma Convents & Courtesans: Locating Buddhist Nuns in the Cultural & Urban Landscape of Early North India Gregory Schopen (UCLA) 03S Kent McConnell Picturing Faith: Religious America in Government Photography, 1935-1943 Colleen McDannell (University of Utah) 01F Susannah Heschel Before the 'Final Solution': Nazi Ghettoization Policy in Poland, 1939-1945 Christopher R. Browning (University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill) 01W Amy Hollywood How Do I Tell It; Let Me Count the Ways: Representation and the Historian's Promise Edith Wyschogrod (Rice University) 00S Nancy Frankenberry From Nothing Until Now: Faith in the Natural History of Our Universe Willem B. Drees (University of Twente and Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) 99W Kevin Reinhart Religion and Religious Revolutions Said Arjomand (SUNY at Stony Brook) 98S Hans H. Penner Cannibal Vignettes in the South Seas Gananath Obeyesekere (Princeton) 95F Ifi Amadiume Violence, Young Men and the Preparation for Ritual Maurice Bloch (London School of Economics) 95S Robert G. Henricks Early Chinese Mythology Sarah Allan (School of Oriental and African Studies, SOAS, London) 93F Hans H. Penner The Charisma of Saints and the Cult of Relics, Amulets and Tomb Shrines: A Comparison Stanley Tambiah (Harvard University) 93S Susan Ackerman Yahweh and the Goddesses of Canaan William G. Dever (University of Arizona) 92F A. Kevin Reinhart Wilfred Cantwell Smith and the Study of Religion Wilfred Cantwell Smith (Harvard University) 91S Ronald M. Green Academic Freedom and Catholic Higher Education Charles Curran (Auburn University) 90S Nancy Frankenberry How My Mind Has Changed, or Reflections on Catholic Theology Today David Tracy (University of Chicago Divinity School) 88F Charles Stinson Themes of Contemporary Christian Thought Avery Dulles (Catholic University of America) 88S Confucianism & Christianity Robert C. Neville (Boston University) 88W Robert G. Henricks The Mudwall Saga: Inter-shrine Competition in Taiwan David K. Jordan (University of California, San Diego) 87F Mencius & Aquinas: Theories of Virtue and Conceptions of Courage Lee H. Yearley (Stanford & Amherst) 87S Hans H. Penner Rationality and Ritual Jonathan Z. Smith (University of Chicago) 87W Robert G. Henricks Hereditary Rulership in Ancient China Angus C. Graham (SOAS, London) 86W Ronald M. Green Roman Catholic Social Thought in the Twentieth Century Thomas Sanders, Bryan Hehir, David Hollenbeck 85S Robert A. Oden Ways of Reading the Bible James Barr (Oxford) 85W Robert G. Henricks Taoism: The Religion Michel Strickmann (University of California, Berkeley) 84W Steven Katz Mysticism Seyyid Hussein Nasr 83W Stuart Blackburn The World of Hindu Mythology Wendy Doniger O'Flaherty (University of Chicago) 82F Robert G. Henricks The Hero Pattern and Founders of Religions Alan Dundes (University of California, Berkeley) 82S Fred Berthold Evangelical Christianity Donald G. Bloesch (Dubuque Theological Seminary) 81S Ronald M. Green The Ethical Thought of James Gustafson James Gustafson (University of Chicago) 80S Nancy Frankenberry Women and Religion: The Writings of Rosemary Radford Ruether Rosemary Radford Ruether (Garrett Theological Seminary, Northwestern University) 79S Robert G. Henricks Early Chinese Thought: The Works of Herrlee G. Creel Herrlee G. Creel (University of Chicago) 78S Robert A. Oden Abraham in History and Tradition John Van Seters (University of North Carolina) 77S Charles Stinson The Thought of William Christian William Christian (Yale University) 76S Ronald M. Green Special Seminar in Paul Ramsey's Ethics Paul Ramsey (Princeton University) 74F Hans H. Penner The Problem of Understanding Another Religion Melford Spiro (University of California, San Diego) 74W Fred Berthold The Mind/Body Problem in the Thought of H.D. Lewis. H.D. Lewis (Kings College, University of London) 72S Fred Berthold David Adams Edward Yonan On the Concept of God: The Work of Schubert Ogden Schubert Ogden (Perkins School of Theology, SMU) Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback