Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Alumni Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Alumni Learn about our graduates. Tanvir Ahmed Tanvir Ahmed, 2021, is a research fellow at the Austrian Academy of Science’s Institute of Iranian Studies. He is attached to Nomads' Manuscripts Landscape project. Debra Scoggins Ballentine Debra Scoggins Ballentine, 2012, is Associate Professor of Religion in the Department of Religion at Rutgers University (NJ). Anna F. Bialek Anna F. Bialek, 2016, is Assistant Professor of Religion and Politics, John C. Danforth Center on Religion and Politics at Washington University in St. Louis. Elizabeth Cecil Elizabeth Cecil, 2016, is an Assistant Professor of Religion at Florida State University (FSU). Niki Kasumi Clements Niki Kasumi Clements, 2014, is the Watt J. and Lilly G. Jackson Assistant Professor of Religion and Allison Sarofim Assistant Professor of Distinguished Teaching in the Humanities, Rice University (TX). Tracy Coleman Tracy Coleman, 2001, is David Packard Professor at Colorado College. Matthew Day Matthew Day, 2003, is Associate Professor of Religion at Florida State University at Tallahassee. Nathaniel DesRosiers Nathaniel DesRosiers, 2007, has received tenure and been promoted to Associate Professor of Religious Studies at Stonehill College. Together with another Brown alum, Jordan Rosenblum, and Lily Vuong, have co-edited a volume, Religious Competition in the Third Century CE: Jews, Christians, and the Greco-Roman World (Vanden Hoeck & Ruprecht 2014). Chris DiBona Chris DiBona, 2021, is a Deans' Faculty Fellow at Brown University. Larson DiFiori Larson DiFiori, 2018, Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies. Laura Dingeldein Laura Dingeldein, 2014, is Clinical Assistant Professor of Catholic Studies at the University of Illinois - Chicago. Matthew Duperon Matthew Duperon, 2013, is Associate Professor of Religion, Susquehanna University (PA). Reyhan Durmaz Reyhan Durmaz, 2019, is Assistant Professor of Religion at the University of Pennsylvania. Jennifer Eyl Jennifer Eyl, 2012, is Associate Professor in the Department of Religion at Tufts University. Jen has also received a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities for participation in a seminar in Greece. Rebecca Falcasantos Rebecca Stephens Falcasantos, 2015, is an Assistant Professor of Early Christianity at Amherst College. Paul Firenze Paul Firenze, 2013, is Assistant Professor of Humanities and Social Sciences, and Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the Wentworth Institute of Technology in Boston. Andrew Flescher Andrew Flescher, 2000, is Professor of Family, Population, and Preventive Medicine and Professor of English, at State University of New York, Stony Brook. He is also core faculty in Public Health Randy Friedman Randy Friedman, 2005, is Associate Professor of Philosophy and Jewish Studies, and Director of the Center for Israel Studies at SUNY Binghamton Nicholas Friesner Nicholas Friesner, 2017, is Catalogue Librarian at Princeton Theological Seminary. William Gilders William Gilders, 2001, is Associate Professor of Religion at Emory University, GA . Keith Green Keith Green, 1992, Professor in the Department of Philosophy, and Director of the Program in Religious Studies, Eastern Tennessee State University. James P. Gubbins James P. Gubbins, 1997, is Associate Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies at Salem State College (MA). Omar Haque Omar Haque, 2013, House Staff Officer in Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Brown University; Research Fellow in Psychiatry and Law at Harvard University; Postdoctoral Fellow in Psychology, Harvard University. Caroline Johnson Hodge Caroline Johnson Hodge, 2002, is Associate Professor in the Religious Studies Department at Holy Cross. Susan Holman Susan Holman, 1998, is the John R. Eckrich Chair and Professor of Religion and the Healing Arts at Valparaiso University. Curtis Hutt Curtis Hutt, 2007, is Associate Professor of Religious Studies, the Executive Director of the Goldstein Center for Human Rights, and the Director of Programming, Schwalb Center for Israel and Jewish Studies at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. Terrence Johnson Terrence Johnson, 2007, is Associate Professor of Religion and African American Studies at Georgetown University and faculty fellow at the Berkeley Center. Nechama Juni Nechama Juni, 2021, is Assistant Professor of Religion at Carleton College (MN). Jianshe Kong Jianshe Kong, 2006, is teaching at Marist College. David Le David Le, 2017, Free-lance editor, writer, and public archivist, New York. Jung Lee Jung Lee, 2003, is Associate Professor of Religion at Northeastern University (MA). Nathaniel Levtow Nathaniel Levtow, 2006, is Associate Professor of Global Humanities and Religions at the University of Montana -Missoula. Alissa A. MacMillan Alissa A. MacMillan, 2013, Research Fellow at the University of Antwerp. Nelson Maldonado-Torres Nelson Maldonado-Torres, 2002, is Professor of Comparative Literature at Rutgers University (NJ). Megan McBride Megan McBride, 2017, Postdoctoral Fellow in National Security Affairs, Tufts University. Judson Murray Judson Murray, 2008, is Associate Professor of Religious Studies at Wright State University (Ohio) Michael Payne Michael Payne, 2020, is a postdoctoral fellow at Ludwig-Maximilians University - Munich. Daniel Picus Daniel Picus, 2018, is Assistant Professor of Global Humanities and Religions at Western Washington University. Brian Rainey Brian Rainey, 2014, is Assistant Professor of Old Testament at Princeton Theological Seminary. Erin Roberts Erin Roberts, 2010, is Associate Professor and Chair of Philosophy and Religion at the University of South Carolina. Paul Robertson Paul Robertson, 2013, is a lecturer in the Department of Classics and Humanities at the University of New Hampshire. Jordan Rosenblaum Jordan Rosenblaum, 2008, is the Belzer Professor of Classical Judaism, Department of Religious Studies, and the Mosse/Weinstein Center for Jewish Studies; Max and Freida Weinstein-Bascom Professor of Jewish Studies; and Chair, Art History Department at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Jeanne-Nicole Saint-Laurent Jeanne-Nicole Saint-Laurent, 2009, is Associate Professor in the Theology Department at Marquette University (WI). Miguel Segovia Miguel Segovia, 2013, Chair, English Department, The Masters School, Dobbs Ferry, NY. Jennifer Elizabeth Singletary Jennifer Elizabeth Singletary, 2014, is Assistant Research Professor of Classics and Ancient Mediterranean Studies at the Pennsylvania State University. Kerry Sonia Kerry Sonia, 2017, is Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies at Colby College. Starting July 1, Kerry will transition to a tenure-track Assistant Professor at Colby. Jonathan Sozek Jonathan Sozek, 2016, is Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Religion at Albert Magnus College, New Haven, CT. Aaron Stalnaker Aaron Stalnaker, 2000, is Professor and Chair of Religious Studies at Indiana University, Bloomington. Karen Stern (Gabbay) Karen Stern (Gabbay), 2006, is Associate Professor of History at Brooklyn College - CUNY. Adrien Stoloff Adrien Stoloff, 2019, is Assistant Teaching Professor at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Shane Thompson Shane Thompson, 2021, is Assistant Professor of Religion at North Carolina Wesleyan College. Andrew Tobolowsky Andrew Tobolowsky, 2015, is Assistant Professor of Religion at the College of William and Mary. James Swan Tuite James Swan Tuite, 2010, is Visiting Assistant Professor of Religion University of Indiana - Bloomington. Daniel Ullucci Daniel Ullucci, 2009, is a Visiting Associate Professor at Stonehill College. Arthur Urbano Arthur Urbano, 2005 , is Professor of Theology at Providence College. Cyril Uy Cyril Uy II, 2021, is Assistant Professor of Religion at James Madison University. Tanner Walker Tanner Walker, 2021, is a Deans' Faculty Fellow at Brown University. Robyn Faith Walsh Robyn Faith Walsh, 2014, is Assistant Professor of New Testament and Early Christianity at the University of Miami. Heidi Wendt Heidi Wendt, 2013, is Assistant Professor of Religions, Greco-Roman World, Department of History and Classical Studies, and School of Religious Studies at McGill University. Richard Wright Richard Wright, 1994, is Professor of New Testament, at the Graduate School of Theology, Abilene Christian University, Abilene, TX. Stephen Young Stephen Young, 2016, is a lecturer at Appalachian State University. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Alumni Open details for Alumni Bookmark this Page