Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Awards and Prizes Share Past Honors Theses Past Honors Theses Year Student Name Thesis Title Advisor(s) 2020 Tina Xinran Li Religion and Spirituality in 21st Century America: A Social Economic Analysis of Shifting Affiliations Professor Jeremy Sabella 2018 Kourtney Kawano Creating Worlds and Shaping Hawaiian Identity in Early and Contemporary Makahiki Rituals Professor A. Kevin Reinhart 2017 Eliza H. Rockefeller Enlightenment in a Female Body: The Creation of the Togdenma Lineage of Tibetan Buddhist Yoginis Professor Reiko Ohnuma 2016 Olivia Morrison "The substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen": The Challenge of Faith and Wrongful Conviction in Louisiana Penitentiaries Professor Robert Baum 2016 Samantha N. Smith Remaking the Cosmopolis in Zion: Early LDS Conceptions of God and Jacksonian Democracy Professor Randall Balmer 2014 Isha Flores Immanual Kant on theodicy : God, the Afterlife, and the Moral Life Professor Ronald M. Green 2014 Charlotte Morris Ritual, the Body, and the Brain: The Neural Correlates of the Catholic Rosary Professor A. Kevin Reinhart 2013 Rochele Brown Ongoing Evolution: Robert Bellah's Elements of Axial Religion in the Modern Secular United States Professor Nancy Frankenberry 2013 Theresa Ramponi Søren Kierkegaard's Psychology: Despair and Depression: The Dissolution of the Self in Modern Psychological Practice Professor Ronald M. Green 2012 Timothy Koeth Ethics and Morality in Kurt Vonnegut's Novels Professor Ronald M. Green 2012 Isabel Starr Murray Christian Love and the Pseudonymous Method: An Exploration of the Theological Import of Søren Kierkegaard's Authorship Professor Ronald M. Green 2012 Kurt W. Prescott "From Dan to Beersheba": Sacred Space in Ancient Israel Professor Susan Ackerman 2011 Stephen Amrhein Piety through Praxis: Muslim Women and Fundamentalism Professors A. Kevin Reinhart and Ehud Benor 2011 Kyrollos Wanees National Unity or Religious Persecution? The Coptic Question in Egyptian Politics Professors M. Anne Sa'adah and A. Kevin Reinhart 2011 Sarah Veeck God's Medicine: Healing and Conversion to the True Jesus Church Professor Gil Raz 2010 William Roth On Shari'ah: Virtue, Vice and the Law in Post-Colonial States Professor A. Kevin Reinhart 2010 Alexander R. Lloyd Religion in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Professor Ronald M. Green 2009 Ray Padgett Jesus Rocks My Soul: Contemporary Christian Music and the Evangelical Consumer not listed 2009 Dierre D. Upshaw Fleecing the Flock? A History of Religious Fundraising in the United States and the Tax Exemption Debate Professor Ronald M. Green 2009 Georgina Hastings Emerson St. James and the Integration of Spain into Latin Christendom Professor Christopher MacEvitt 2009 Damaris Y. Walker Meeting the Demands of Fair and Body: Black Gay Religious Identity in the United States Profesor Clarence Hardy 2009 Peter Francis Kitlas Greek Identity in Medieval Crete: A Discussion of the Religious and Cultural Exchange in the Countryside Professor Christopher MacEvitt 2009 John A. Zaleski Reconciling Poverty and Obedience in the 1320s: The Sanctoral Sermons of Bertrand de la Tour, O.F.M. not listed 2008 Angela M. Libby Progress and Tradition, Strength and Submission: Nineteenth-Century Evangelical Feminism Professor Susan Ackerman 2008 Timothy M. Baker Oshaya Began Thus: Wisdom, Logos, and Torah in Bereshit Rabbah 1.1 Professor Ehud Benor 2007 Julia Frances Bernstein Sacred Space in Secular Conflicts: Religion's Role in Modern Debates over Holy Sites Professors Ehud Benor and Reiko Ohnuma 2007 Rebekah M. Junkermeier Judas Iscariot: Worst Friend or Best Betrayer ? A Study of the Gospel of Judas Professor Susan Ackerman 2007 Harry Huberty The Life of the World to Come: Roman Catholic Church Doctrine and the Personal Heavens of America's Roman Catholics Professors Susan Ackerman and J. Edward Wright 2007 Benjamin Selznick There's Something Happening Here: Esalen and Secular Spirituality in America Professor Clarence Hardy 2007 Vaughn A. Booker, Jr. We're "Free at Last" to "Name it and Claim it"? Social Justice, Economic Empowerment, and the Prosperity Gospel in the Black Megachurch Phenomenon Professor Clarence Hardy 2007 Benjamin D. Cox Gathered to Their Fathers: Reconstructing the Folk Deathways of Iron Age Israel Professor Susan Ackerman 2006 Willa Rose Forkner Johnson Tawhid and its Challenge to Christianity: The Early Muslim-Christian Debate over Monotheism Professors A. Kevin Reinhart and Christopher MacEvitt 2006 Charlotte Sadler Catholic Teachings Revisited: A Casuist Study of the End-of-Life Care of Terri Schiavo and Pope John Paul II Professor Mary Jo Iozzio 2006 Dale J. Correa Women in Islamic Ritual: The Imamah Controversy Professor A. Kevin Reinhart 2005 S. Luke Blair Modernism and Protestant Fundamentalism: The Quest for "Authenticity" in a Chaotic World Professor Ehud Benor 2005 Torivio A. Fodder Faith and Culture: The Construction of Religious Identity among the Plains Native Americans of Oklahoma Professor Clarence Hardy 2005 Emma W. Sloan There's Something About Mary: Interpretations of Mary Magdelene in Modernity Professor Susan Ackerman 2005 James R. Young, Jr. Getting Caught Up in the Clouds: Exploring the Christian Doctrine of the Rapture Professor Susan Ackerman 2004 Esther Mihindu The Status of Women in the Ancient Israelite Monarchy Professor Susan Ackerman 2004 Frederica Ghesquiere Christian Responses to the Environmental Crisis: A Typology Professor Ronald M. Green 2004 Rachel Bender Hanukkah and the Maccabees: Historical Questions of Jewish Identity Professors Susannah Heschel and Ehud Benor 2003 Lauren S. Foley Christianity and Same-Sex Marriage: Exploring Theology and Ritual Professor Ronald M. Green 2003 Jonathan H. Eisenman The Evolution of a Debate: Opposition to Darwinism in the United States Professor Ronald M. Green 2003 Mirte B. Mallory Ferenc Berko: A story of Modernism, Jewish Identity, and Photography Professor Ronald M. Green 2002 Karen M. Hart Building the New Israel: Childrearing in the Twelve Tribes Professor Ronald M. Green 2002 Bejamin D. Herson The Who's Who of the End of the World: The Roles of the Key Figures in Three First Century CE Eschatologies Professor Susan Ackerman 2001 Lara Belkin Re-examining Divine Androgyne: The Gender of the Godhead in Theosophic Kabbalah Professor Ehud Benor 2001 Luke Gonzales Arriving in America: Mind, Body, and the American Perceptual Disorder Professor Darryl V. Caterine 2001 Chris Hummel The Roman Catholic Church and Croatian Nationalism: The Life of Archbishop Stepinac not listed 2001 Elizabeth McGarvey Soren Kierkegaard: A Vision of the Christian Life and Community Professor Ronald M. Green 2001 Alexandra Meise The Myth of Yugoslavian Identity Professor A. Kevin Reinhart 2000 Greg Baker The Beginnings of the End: An Examination of Potential Foreign and Indigenous Influences on the Origins of Jewish Apocalypticism in the Hellenistic Period Professor Susan Ackerman 2000 Byan Coyne Apophatic Anthropology: Negative Theology and Human Subjectivity in Late Antiquity Professor Amy Hollywood 2000 Leslie Cushner Rethinking Turner's Communitas: A re-reading of Victor Turner in light of Sartre and Buber Professor Ehud Benor 2000 Susi Kandel This One Shall Be Called Woman: Representations of Female Sexuality in Genesis Professor Susan Ackerman 1999 Gabriel J. Levy Lubavitch: A Mystical Ethic Within its Religious Matrix Professor Ehud Benor 1999 Ross M. Wilken Double-Barreled Religious Experience: Jonathan Edwards, Willaim James, and Religious Affections Professor Nancy Frankenberry 1998 Ben A. Cooperberg Disputed Sacred Space: Conflict Over Jerusalem Professors A. Kevin Reinhart and Ehud Benor 1998 Philip J. Glasser The Meaning of Messiah: An Examination of Anointing in the Hebrew Bible and the Ancient Near East not listed 1998 Molli J. Hamermesh A Scapegoat for Secularization: Representations of the Jew as Parvenu in Early Twentieth-Century Literature not listed 1998 Peter T. Lanfer Traditions of Biblical Interpretation in Apocalyptic Judaism and Early Christianity not listed 1998 Jennifer D. Molinar A Faith in Someone Else's Faith: Justification and Belief in Contemporary Foundationalism, Pragmatism and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints not listed 1997 Theresa M. Ellis A Kiss Which Was Something More Than a Peck: Kierkegaard's Embrace of Romantic and Erotic Love in his Pseudonymous and Religious Writings Professor Ronald M. Green 1996 Michelle Meyer Can This Marriage Be Saved? - The Search for a Successful Union of Early and Later Ethical Themes in Jean-Paul Sartre's Existentialism not listed 1995 Gretchen Ann Freeman Facing Mount Kenya? - A Discussion of Changing Indigenous Religions of the Gikuyu and Tiriki Peoples Professor Hans H. Penner 1995 Nicole Reboe From Whence the Water Flows: An Analysis of the Initiation Ritual of the Sande Secret Society Professor Ifi Amadiume 1995 Barbara L. Seniawski Islam as Discourse - Capturing Diversity and Affirming Unity 1995 Andrea Hill Useem Sacred History at the Smithsonian: Veterans, Historians, and the Politics of Memory 1995 Blake Wentworth Religious Violence and the Quest for Meaning Professor Hans H. Penner 1994 Kimberly Blanchard With One Heart and One Mind - The Messianic Communities as a Case Study in New Religious Movements Kimberly Blanchard 1994 Elizabeth Goldstein Theological Constructions of the Jewish Woman:An Analysis of the Relationship Between Female Sexuality and the Laws of Family Purity 1994 Derek C. West Order Out of Chaos : The Cosmological Argument, Process Philosophy, and Chaos Theory 1993 Betsy Barth Breaking with Tradition - A New Look at Biblical Women 1993 Kamran Pasha Joseph as a Religious Hero - A Comparative Study of Jewish and Muslim Exegesis 1991 William O. Brant Dying the Great Death: Existential Analyses of Early Ch'an Buddhist Texts - An Examination of the Content and Function of 'The Platform Sutra of the sixth Patriarch' and the 'Mumonkan' through the lens of the Existentialism of Martin Heidegger and Rudolf Bultmann 1991 Barry Hurwitz Determinism and Indeterminism: Implications for Human Freedom and Responsibility 1991 J. Kenneth Joung The Modal Ontological Argument of Charles Hartshorne 1991 Michael Lazar The Process of Becoming an Authentic Self: A presentation and Discussion of Soren Kierkegaard's Stages of Human Existence and their Role in the Project of Christian Self-Becoming 1990 Robin Farina Maternal Responsibility and its Ethical and Legal Ramifications 1990 Diane Fisk Bray Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary... An Examination of the Historical Development of Mariology Diane Fisk Bray 1990 Mario Fantini-Cepedes Monsignor Jose María Escrivá and the Opus Dei,"The Work of God" 1990 Andrew Harris Zen Buddhism as a Technology of the Self - An Investigation of the Relations Between Language, Belief, and Experience 1990 David Klaus Moralistic Legislation in a Morally Pluralistic Society: The Problem of Sodomy Laws in the United States 1989 A. Michael Gildersleeve Apparently Irrational Beliefs and Their Interpretations A. Michael Gildersleeve 1989 Sharyl Hirsh The Closed Mythological System of the Ancient Near East: A Structuralist Interpretation of the Mesopotamian and Biblical Primeval Histories 1989 Kara Kelly A Comparative Study of Death Rituals and Mourning Customs in Contemporary Greece and China 1989 Robin MacDonald Apparently Irrational Beliefs Professor Hans H. Penner 1988 Jevin Seth Eagle Jewish Students at Dartmouth College: A Study of Third and Fourth Generation American Jews Jevin Seth Eagle 1988 Deborah Lynn Hanney Other Sheep: Non-Christians in Christian Theology 1988 Joon P. Hong Religious Developments in the Hellenistic World:The Encounter Between Egyptian and Greek Religious Systems 1987 Lindsay Bridges As Verily as God is Our Father as Verily is God our Mother: Two Case Studies of Feminine Naming for God in Christianity 1986 Mary Beckman The Search for the Historical Jesus: The Relationship of History and Theology 1986 Laurence Chang Religion in Politics: An Essay at Conceptualizing Religion's Role in the Political Sphere 1986 Elizabeth Crawford Brevard Childs and the Servant of the Lord: An Analysis of Canonical Criticism 1986 Jennifer Kerns Julius Wellhausen and the Development of the Documentary Hypothesis 1986 David C. Linehan God, Omnipotence and the Defective Newborn:Using Theodicy in Ethical Analysis 1986 M. Ian Smith Christian Creation in a Darwinian Age: An Examination of the Creation Theologies of John Cobb and Langdon Gilkey 1985 Michael J. Ferris Protestant Liberalism and Catholic Modernism:The Nineteenth Century Defense of Faith and Culture 1985 Adam Seessel Radical Disquiet: A Dialectical Inquiry into Soren Kierkegaard's and Walker Percy's Insights into the Hyper-Rationality of Western Man 1984 Stephen Cho From Being to Ereignis the Path of Eigentlichkeit 1984 Erin Foley The Ethical Implications of Advancing Neonatal Technology: Spina-Bifida - A Case Study 1984 Sarah LaBudde Quaestiones Disputatae: Revelation, Kerygma, and Dogma In the Thought of Karl Barth and Karl Rahner 1984 Deborah Schupack Albert Camus and Existentialism 1984 Sarah Strauss Navajo Religion: The Mythological Basis for Medicine and Morality 1984 Brad Weiss Social Structures and Religious Systems 1983 Gary Apfel Moses as Folk Hero 1983 Amy Bloch The Problem of Abortion 1983 Joel Hubbard The Theology of Christian Perfection as Expressed by the Reverend John Wesley 1983 Kennth Lehman On Meaning and Symbolism 1983 Raymond Patterson The Marian Implications of the Protevangelium of James 1982 Steven Levitan A Study of the Sephardic Community in New York City 1982 Carol Mason Scientific and Ethical Implications of in vitro Fertilization Carol G. Mason 1981 W. Thomas Booher The Founding of the Disciples of Christ 1981 Joan Danziger Dostoevsky and the Meaning of Life - A Study in The Brothers Karamazov 1981 Lynn Peterson The Oneida Community 1980 Dennis Biggie The Theology of George Berkeley 1980 Theodore Blaisdell Schleiermacher on Protestantism and Kant 1980 Leilani Crane The Figure of Krishna in Hinduism 1980 John Dolan Just War, Just Occupation, and the Case of Israel: A Moral Theory with an Illustrative Application John Vincent Dolan 1980 Joel Getzendanner The Historical Jesus in the Work of Dietrich Bonhoeffer 1980 Peter Hutchins Predestination in the Thought of Augustine and Aquinas 1980 Edith Marie Keating The Problem of Abortion 1980 Eric Ziolkowski Max Weber's Conception of the Transformation of Religious Ideas into Secular Action 1979 Judith Copeland Structural Analysis and the Ugaritic Myths Judith Copeland 1979 Alistair Jessiman The Framework of Meaning: Synchrony and Diachrony in the Structural Anthropology of Claude Levi-Strauss 1977 John Harrington The Virgin Mary in Mexican Culture 1977 Stephen Rappaport An Analysis of Freud's View of Religion Considering his Conception of Reason as the Prefecting Characteristic in Man 1976 Mark P. Muth Whitehead's Theory of Mind 1975 Donald L. Drakeman The Theology of the Jesus Movement Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback