Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) We are a group of undergraduates concentrating in Religious Studies, dedicated to establishing camaraderie and communication amongst RS concentrators. We provide opportunities for undergraduates -- concentrators and enthusiasts alike -- to take part in departmental student events. Through movie screenings, lectures, and social events, we aim to develop critical awareness concerning what it is to study religion in an academic setting. We are also invested in building relationships with the graduate students and faculty, taking an active role in the shaping of the RS program. To join the DUG or to participate in DUG activities, please contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies, or the DUG leaders. Director of Undergraduate Studies Daniel Vaca Robert Gale Noyes Assistant Professor of Humanities, Director of Undergraduate Studies Daniel_Vaca@brown.edu DUG Leaders Georgeara Castaneda Georgeara_Castaneda@brown.edu Sean Fischer Sean_Fischer@brown.edu Amelia Spalter Amelia_Spalter@brown.edu Upcoming DUG Events We have two exciting events coming up What's Next? Come talk (and eat!) with recent Religious Studies grads! Talk with former concentrators about how Religious Studies connects to the varied things they're doing now! Tues., Nov. 16, 2021 5pm: Meet with alums on Zoom (email vaca@brown.edu for the link) 6:30pm: Eat/talk @ 59 George (Shirley Miller House) Email vaca@brown.edu for more information. Crash Course in Ethnography with Dr. Kera Street, Presidential Postdoctoral Fellow in Religious Studies Are you interested n studying religious life as it's lived today? Do you want to interview people or visit a community (in-person or online!), for a class or maybe fro an honors thesis? Come get a crash course in ethnographic field methods from Dr. Street, who does in person and digital ethnography in her own work! Thurs., Nov. 18th @ 6:30pm Shirley Miller House | 59 George Street | Room 101 Food provided! Come learn + talk + eat with the RELS DUG! RSVPs appreciated (vaca@brown.edu) Additional Information Bishop McVickar Prizes The Bishop McVickar Prize is awarded for the best senior honors theses on any topic related to the academic study of religion Concentration Religious Studies is the main place on campus to study religious life around the world, in various historical, geographic, and political contexts. Courses Undergraduate Courses Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Open details for Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bookmark this Page