Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Religious Studies Main Navigation Academics Students Faculty Alumni Advising Events Make a Gift Contact Us Course Schedules Mission and Goals Student Learning Goals Religious Studies Catalog Welcome to the Religious Studies Department (Formerly: Comparative Religion (CPRL)) Religious Studies is the name we use to describe the work of scholars who teach and pursue research about one or more of the religions of the world in a non-sectarian, academic and comparative manner. It is similar to many other liberal arts majors (history, literature, philosophy to name a few) because it gives you the intellectual tools for success in a host of career fields. It is not a dry, cloistered, or indoctrinating study. Here, you will encounter new ways of understanding the world, learn exciting methods of analysis, and develop sophistication in the interpretation of religious texts, beliefs and practices. You will learn to think, write, and speak with clarity and precision, to do research on complex issues, and to listen and relate to others with understanding and respect. Thank you for visiting our site. You may also be interested in the Religious Studies section of the university catalog. Programs offered: B.A. Religious Studies Minors in: Religious Studies; Christian Studies; Islamic Studies; Jewish Studies Why study religion? This site is maintained by Department of Religious Studies. Last Published 8/24/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact bstarr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.