Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Bishop McVickar Prizes Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes Past Winners FAQ Bishop McVickar Prizes The Bishop McVickar Prize is awarded for the best senior honors theses on any topic related to the academic study of religion The Bishop McVickar Prize was endowed in 1909 by the Rt. Rev. William Neilson McVickar, Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Dioceses of Rhode Island (from 1898-1910), and the prizes are now awarded from the income of a fund established in 1923 in his memory by his sister, Miss E. C. McVickar. Sponsored by the Department of Religious Studies, the Bishop McVickar Prize is awarded for the best honors thesis written on any topic related to the academic study of religion. Because the study of religion is a very interdisciplinary field, submissions are welcome from current Brown University students in any concentration, drawing upon any methodology. The prize has been awarded to students from a wide range of concentrations, and several students typically are awarded prizes. Even if you have not thought about your thesis as a project primarily about religion, please do consider whether it might actually qualify. If you'd like to discuss whether you should submit your thesis, please don't hesitate to be in touch with Prof. Daniel Vaca (Director of Undergraduate Studies for Religious Studies) at daniel_vaca@brown.edu. The deadline for consideration for the 2022 prize is Monday, April 25. If you would like to have your thesis considered, but this deadline does not align with the timeline that your department imposes for theses, please be in touch with Prof. Vaca. Theses Deadline: submissions must be received electronically (as pdf) by 12:00 noon on Monday, April 25. Please submit to Tina_Creamer@brown.edu, and put "Submission for McVickar prize" in the cover email. More information on formatting. For more information on the McVickar Prize, contact Prof. Daniel Vaca. Past theses in Religious Studies can be accessed via the Brown Digital Repository. Past Winners Past winners of the Bishop McVickar Prize from 2012. All theses are available via the Brown Digital Repository. View Prize Winners Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Bishop McVickar Prizes Open details for Bishop McVickar Prizes Bookmark this Page