Jump to main content User menu Princeton University Chapel Search form Search × Main menu Programs & Events All Events Discussion Groups Featured Event Interfaith Programs 9/11 Service of Remembrance COVID-19 Healing and Grieving Interfaith Responses to Racism Lectures Meditation Music Pastoral Care Sacred Text Study Travel Fall Break 2019 | Trip to England Fall Break 2019 | Trip to Oman Conferences & Workshops Christianity and White Supremacy: Heresy and Hope Worship Yoga Events Archive Offerings of Reassurance Event Registration & Info Murray-Dodge Café ORL Event Photos ORL Stories Religious Holidays Chaplaincies & Groups Baha'i Buddhist Christian Hindu Interfaith UN Women Faith and Gender Justice Fellowship Jewish Muslim Sikh Unitarian People & Places Contact Us Deans of Religious Life Murray-Dodge Café Murray-Dodge Hall Partners & Collaborators Places of Peace Policies & Funding Fred Fox Fund Fred Fox Class of 1939 Fund Funding for Student Groups Policy on Use of Alcohol in Religious Observances Recognition of Chaplaincies Religious Life Welcome to the Office of Religious Life! It is wonderful to be together on campus again, even with the Covid restrictions that keep us safe. It is such a joy to be seeing people in person after so many months apart. We are thankful to have each and every one of you as our friends. Please know that if you plan to attend an event that is open to the public at Princeton University, you must be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 if over age 12. Face coverings are optional in most University spaces, with some exceptions. Details may be found here. We have planned many enriching programs for the months to come, and hope to see you there! Diwali at the Chapel On November 6, the Hindu Life Program hosted an evening of devotional music & dance, worship, and spiritual reflection, in celebration of Diwali, Hinduism’s Festival of Lights. This year’s Diwali at the Chapel included offerings from PU Swara, Naacho, and the students and staff of Princeton University. We are so excited to be able to share the full video recording of the evening with the ORL community! Silent Vigil In early 2021 the Office of Religious Life created a memorial to the growing number of people, beloved by Princetonians, who were dying of Covid. This video captures the first stage of that project. May their memory be a blessing. Gratefully, Alison Boden and the ORL staff ORL YouTube Check out our Office of Religious Life YouTube Channel to see our prayerful reflections, weekly Sunday services, After Noon Concert Series, Music Meditation and other offerings from our office. Summer 2022 at Princeton University Jun 2 Summer 2022 at Princeton University Thu, Jun 2, 2022, 12:00 am to 11:30 pm Mindfulness Meditation - Virtual Event Jun 2 Mindfulness Meditation - Virtual Event Thu, Jun 2, 2022, 12:30 pm to 1:30 pm Location: Virtual Event Speaker(s): Matthew C. Weiner, Ph.D., Associate Dean of Religious Life Jummah Gathering Jun 3 Jummah Gathering Fri, Jun 3, 2022, 1:00 pm to 2:30 pm Location: Murray-Dodge 104 Speaker(s): Imam Khalil Abdullah, Assistant Dean, Muslim Life Sunday Worship Service - Summer Schedule Jun 5 Sunday Worship Service - Summer Schedule Sun, Jun 5, 2022, 10:00 am to 11:00 am Location: University Chapel Speaker(s): Enger Muteteke, guest preacher View All News & Announcements Q&A with The Rev. Dr. Jim Antal ‘72, 50th Class Reunion Chapel Speaker Q&A with The Rev. Dr. Jim Antal ‘72, 50th Class Reunion Chapel Speaker Read more > Mercy and Justice The following is the transcript of a sermon written by Grecia Hernandez Perez '24 for Dr. Wallace Best's American Sermons course (Spring 2021... Read more > Speed-Faithing with the Religious Life Council Princeton University’s Religious Life Council (RLC) is an interfaith group of students that meet over dinner each Monday to engage in con Read more > View All About the Office of Religious Life MURRAY-DODGE HALL Princeton, New Jersey 08544 T 609.258.3047 | F 609.258.2686 Facebook Twitter Instagram Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University