Skip to main content Search form Search Department of Religious Studies About Us Who We Are Contact Us Support the Department People Faculty Faculty Former Faculty Lecturers Affiliated Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Postdoctoral Fellows and Visiting Scholars Undergraduate Department Fellows and Peer Advisors Undergraduate Major How To Declare Your Religious Studies Major Distinguished Major Minor Master's Promotion Program Non-Departmental Courses Department Fellows and Peer Advisors Graduate About Our Programs: MA and PhD Areas of Study How to Apply Financial Aid Information Milestones to Your PhD Forms Further Opportunities Courses Current Courses Courses by Semester Research Ongoing Programs Virginia Center for the Study of Religion Faculty Ahmed H. al-Rahim Elizabeth Shanks Alexander Michael S. Allen Jessica Andruss Asher D. Biemann Larry Bouchard Erik Braun Ashon Crawley Kathleen Flake Nichole M. Flores Jennifer L. Geddes David Germano Greg Schmidt Goering Mark Hadley Martien Halvorson-Taylor Kevin Hart Larycia Hawkins Matthew Hedstrom Natasha Heller Cynthia Hoehler-Fatton Willis Jenkins Paul Dafydd Jones Sonam Kachru Charles Marsh Charles Mathewes Shankar Nair John Nemec Peter Ochs Vanessa Ochs Oludamini Ogunnaike Kai Parker John E. Portmann Noah Salomon Kurtis R. Schaeffer Jalane Schmidt Michael Sheehy Karl Shuve Janet Spittler Heather Warren Charles Mathewes Carolyn M. Barbour Professor of Religious Studies Gibson Hall, S-235 434-924-6708 ctm9d@virginia.edu Curriculum Vitae Charles Mathewes's Blog: We Are the Times Education BA, Georgetown University MA, University of Chicago PhD, University of Chicago Research Interests Charles Mathewes was initially trained in Christian theology and modern philosophical ethics and philosophy of religion, and he continues his interest in those areas, particularly the history of Christian thought and contemporary theology and ethics. He is also interested in issues around religion, society, culture, and politics. Since coming to UVA he has grown increasingly interested in comparative religion, especially comparative religious ethics, and in the past decade he has begun to do more work on the theory of religion and the practice of religious studies. Teaching The Ethical State of the World Negativity and the Religious Imagination God, Politics, and War Theory and Method in Religious Ethics Religious Ethics and Moral Problems Augustine's City of God Selected Publications The Future of Political Theology. Forthcoming, possibly from Wiley-Blackwell. Comparative Religious Ethics: The Major Works. In 4 Volumes. Editor, with co-Editors Matthew Puffer and Mark Storslee. Routledge, 2015. The Republic of Grace: Augustinian Thoughts in Dark Times. Eerdmans, Paperback 2010. Understanding Religious Ethics. Wiley-Blackwell, Paperback/Cloth 2010. A Theology of Public Life. Cambridge University Press, 2007. (Paperback 2008.) Evil and the Augustinian Tradition. Cambridge University Press, 2001. (Paperback 2007.) Contact Us Main Office 434.924.6705 434.924.1467 (Fax) Graduate Program 434.924.6706 323 Gibson Hall 1540 Jefferson Park Ave. PO Box 400126 University of Virginia Charlottesville, VA 22904-4126 Text Version Maintained by: Religious Studies Last Modified: Wednesday, 11-May-2022 10:05 am EDT © Copyright 2022 by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia