Skip to Main Content University of South Florida Department of Religious Studies College of Arts and Sciences Search Search for: Main Navigation Menu Contribute to our future About Us Undergraduate Graduate People Resources Scholarships & Awards MyUSF Directory About Us Skip Over Breadcrumbs and Secondary Navigation Breadcrumb Navigation Department of Religious Studies People Faculty Secondary Navigation Faculty Affiliated and Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students PHR Students Faculty Michael DeJonge Michael DeJonge Chair and Professor Contact Office: CPR 469D Phone: 813/974-1848 Email: mdejonge (at) usf.edu Links Curriculum Vitae Bio Michael DeJonge is Professor and Chair of Religious Studies. He teaches in the areas of the history of Christian thought, theories and methods in religious studies, modern religious thought, and theoretical issues in religion and politics. Prof. DeJonge earned his Ph.D. in Religion from Emory University in 2009 and has been a Fulbright Scholar, a Fellow of the Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies, a Volkswagen/Mellon Fellow at the Leibniz-Institute for European History in Mainz, Germany, and Visiting Dietrich Bonhoeffer Professor of Theology and Ethics at Union Theological Seminary in New York. His scholarship has focused on the twentieth-century German theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer, with monographs including Bonhoeffer’s Theological Formation (Oxford, 2012), Bonhoeffer’s Reception of Luther (Oxford, 2017), and Bonhoeffer on Resistance (Oxford, 2018). University of South Florida Menu About USF Academics Admissions Locations Campus Life Research Partner with USF Administrative Units Regulations & Policies Human Resources Work at USF Emergency & Safety USF Health USF Athletics USF Alumni Support USF USF Libraries USF World 4202 E. Fowler Avenue Tampa, FL 33620, USA 813-974-4252 Copyright © 2020, University of South Florida. All rights reserved. This website is maintained by Economics. About This Site Contact USF Visit USF