Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Graduate Student Handbook Breadcrumb Home Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines Graduate Student Handbook The primary purpose of this Handbook is to provide information geared to the needs of graduate students at all levels in Religious Studies. The Handbook is intended to answer many basic questions and help graduate students progress as quickly and efficiently as possible towards the completion of the degree. It's not intended as a replacement either for consulting official University documents, especially the departmental and Graduate School Websites (from which considerable portions of this Handbook are distilled), or for consulting with faculty, fellow students, and various officials of the Graduate School, all of which graduate students should do regularly. This Handbook is revised periodically, and we welcome suggestions for its improvement. Graduate Student Handbook (2021-2022) Please click on the link below to download the pdf of the Graduate Student Handbook. Note, the Handbook is currently undergoing a round of revisions, please check back for the final draft. If you have immediate questions, please either contact Nicole Vadnais or Prof. Stephen Bush. Download the Handbook (PDF) Additional Information Graduate Student Organization The Graduate Student Organization for the Department of Religious Studies promotes the development of community in the department across faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate concentrators. Funding Opportunities Below is a list of funding opportunities both external and internal that may help with fellowship, research, and other financial support. This isn't a comprehensive list, and will be updated as new financial opportunities become available. TA Guidelines Teaching assistantships are an essential part of the graduate education. In addition to providing graduate students with the opportunity to cultivate their skills as classroom instructors, assistantships also provide students opportunities to receive guidance and mentorship from a faculty member. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Student Handbook Open details for Graduate Student Handbook Bookmark this Page