Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Breadcrumb Home Events Sub Navigation In This Section Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Lectures for the University and community with a focus on areas of interfaith relations (especially Christian, Muslim, and Jewish relations), race relations, and world peace; topics have included hunger, poverty, refugees, disarmament, and the religious and moral grounds for pacifism. K. Brooke Anderson was Executive Secretary of the Brown Christian Association from 1928 until 1957, a position in which he had a profound impact on the lives of many in the Brown community, students, faculty and staff alike. Mr. Anderson had served for two years in World War I with the French Army Ambulance Service, receiving the Silver Star citation from General Pershing and decorated by France for his work. Still, the experience left him deeply disillusioned, and a lifelong commitment to pacifism began. He worked with prisoners of war in Syria, Egypt, and Jerusalem from 1919-1921, and later, after World War II, with Arab refugees in the Gaza Strip. He remained an active advocate for peace for the rest of his life. After his death in 1975 at the age of 83, his family established the K. Brooke Anderson Memorial Fund, shared by the Department of Religious Studies and the Office of the Chaplains of Brown University, to support annual lectures for the University and community with a focus on areas of interfaith relations (especially Christian, Muslim, and Jewish relations), race relations, and world peace; topics have included hunger, poverty, refugees, disarmament, and the religious and moral grounds for pacifism. Past presenters have included poet Amir Sulaiman (2018), Pulitzer Prize winning author Marilynne, Robinson '66 (2017), David Carrasco, Harvard Divinity School (2014); Eddie S. Glaude, Princeton University (2013); Dr. Rami Nashashibia, Director of the Inner-city Muslim Action Network (IMAN) in Chicago (2012); and Amy Hollywood, Harvard University (2011). We are deeply indepted to the Anderson family who have made this lecture series possible. Events Explore upcoming events in the Department of Religious Studies. Past Events View an archive of past events from the past several years. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Open details for K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Bookmark this Page