Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion A portal to the liberal arts. Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next In Good Faith Religion professor Randall Balmer brings historical perspective—and personal experience—to his assessment of the religious right. (Photograph by Robert Gill) Barry Prize Honors 'Dedication to the Academic Vocation' The scholarships will allow two Dartmouth students to study theology at Oxford. Cryptocurrency on taxes, politics, and urban life Professor Devin Singh's recent work about the potential effect of cryptocurrency on taxes, politics, and urban life is featured in Wired magazine. Language Integrity Educator Brooke Niiyogaabawiikwe Ammann '97 revitalizes Ojibwe heritage. Ammann, who majored in religion, earned a master's in education at Harvard and is pursuing a doctorate at the University of Hawaii. Religious women have abortions, too. And many faiths affirm abortion rights. The abortion debate is largely presented as a stark divide between secular people who support access to abortion care and religious people who oppose it. This false binary has obscured the diversity of religious positions on the issue. Georgina Emerson '09 MALS '14 on Closing Gender Gaps by Changing How We Teach In this interview with Adam Torres, Georgina Emerson '09 MALS '14 talks about redefining the language of power, reframing history to focus more on women, and creating a more equitable world for future generations. Seattle Drag Performers Take to the Stage at Collis A free drag show at Collis Common Ground Friday night featured three performers from Seattle. "Dragmouth" was presented by the Department of Religion in collaboration with the Office of Pluralism and Leadership. The evening concluded with a discussion and Q&A facilitated by Sara Swenson, an assistant professor in religion. Sperry Writing Prize in Religion The Sperry Writing Prize is awarded to Emilie Bowerman '23, Yevheniia Dubrova '24, and Nicole Tooper '24. Prof. Darryl Wilkinson Brings Dartmouth Students on Archeology Field-Trip This summer, Prof. Darryl Wilkinson from the Religion Department led an archaeological survey of rock art sites in northern New Mexico, with the assistance of three Dartmouth undergraduates: Gabrielle Cooper, Emily Andrews and Emma Garland. Welcome Sara Swenson, Assistant Professor in Asian Religions The Religion department welcomes Sara Swenson! This year Professor Swenson will teach REL 1.11: Women and Religion: Sisters, Seekers, Sages; REL 2.01: Religions of Southeast Asia; and REL 41.07: Buddhism, Gender, and Sexuality in Southeast Asia Recent Publications view all Lived Islam: Colloquial Religion in a Cosmopolitan Tradition A. Kevin Reinhart Cambridge University Press, 2020 Economy and Modern Christian Thought Devin Singh Leiden: Brill, 2022 Women and the Religion of Ancient Israel Susan Ackerman Yale University Press, April 2022 Lift Every Voice and Swing: Black Musicians and Religious Culture in the Jazz Century Vaughn A. Booker New York University Press, July 2020 Meet the Faculty Learn more about the Department of Religion faculty.learn more Sperry Writing Prize This prize for outstanding writing is awarded on an annual basis for the best essay, body of essays, or research paper written for Department of Religion course. Forum on Race & Religion Our faculty has established a series of panel discussions and colloquia focusing on the intersection of race and religion.learn more Events view all Jun 11 4:30PM Religion Commencement Reception Thornton Hall To honor the Graduating Majors and Minors of the Department of Religion Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback