Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Honors Program Career Information Alumni Stories Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Share The Charles Howard Dudley Prize A monetary prize, given in memory of Charles Howard Dudley, Class of 1901, is awarded annually to the graduating student, selected by the faculty of the Department of Religion, who has demonstrated excellence in the study of that field. Past Prizes Recipients and Year 2021 None 2020 Tina Li '20 2019 None 2018 Kourtney Kawano '18 2017 Eliza Rockefeller '17 2016 Olivia Morrison '16 Samantha Smith '16 2015 None 2014 Isha V. Flores '14 Charlotte R. Morris '14 2013 Rochele W. Brown '13 Theresa M. Ramponi '13 2012 Kurt W. Prescott '12 2011 Sarah Veeck, '11 2010 William Roth '10 2009 John A. Zaleski '09 2008 Timothy M. Baker '08 2007 Benjamin D. Cox '07 Rebekah M. Junkermeier '07 2006 Andrew B. Kraebel '06 2005 Emma W. Sloan '05 2004 Frederica R. Ghesquiere '04 2003 Lauren Stoddard Foley '03 Jonathan H. Eisenman '03 Mirte Mallory '03 2002 Karen Marie Hart '02 Benjamin Douglas Herson '02 2001 Christian Brian Hummel '01 2000 Ryan D. Coyne '00 1999 Rupa Mukherjee '99 Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback