Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Religious Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Faith Communities Programs Sacred Music Weddings Events Religious Life Staff St. Paul's Chapel Religious Life Advisers Resources Office of the University Chaplain Welcome Message Building Hours News Religious Life Advisers Student Organizations Prayer and Meditation Spaces Weekly Meetings and Worship Schedule Baccalaureate Common Ground Co-Sponsorship Fund Multi-Faith Fellowship Spiritual Wellness Workshops Religious Life You are here: Home Programs Baccalaureate Service Baccalaureate Service About the Service The Baccalaureate Service is a multi-faith service celebrating the completion of each undergraduate's academic career from Columbia College, The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, the School of General Studies, and Barnard College. Service highlights include hymns, musical selections, readings, reflections, and speeches by students. All undergraduate degree candidates and their guests are invited to attend. Ceremony Details Sunday, May 15, 2022, 10:00 a.m. at St. Paul's Chapel Watch a recording of the 2022 Baccalaureate Service here. Registration Graduating seniors are invited and encouraged to be a part of the Baccalaureate Service each year. Students are required to register if they wish to participate and are encouraged to invite friends and family to attend. Tickets are not guaranteed for guest admission; however, seating in the Chapel is only guaranteed for candidates. 2022 Participants Student Benjamin Barth School Columbia College Tradition Jewish Student Barbara Chrobak School Barnard College Tradition Catholic Student Edna Egal School Columbia College Tradition Muslim Student Isabelle Eshraghi School Barnard College Tradition Baha'i Student Blake Jones School Columbia College Tradition Episcopalian Student Ariel Katz School School of General Studies, Jewish Theological Seminary Tradition Jewish Student Hana Kaur Mangat School Columbia College Tradition Sikh Student Aliza Shivanni Ramdass School The Fu Foundation of Engineering and Applied Science Tradition Hindy History The Baccalaureate Service is believed to have originated at Oxford University in 1432 when each bachelor was required to deliver a sermon in Latin as part of his academic exercise. This historical British practice continued with the earliest universities in this country, which were founded primarily to educate ministers. Columbia University began this tradition in 1897 and the ceremony continues today as an interfaith, intercultural service celebrating each undergraduate's academic career. Accessibility Columbia University is committed to ensuring that all Commencement activities are accessible to all graduates and guests. If you need any accommodations, please contact Disability Services. The service is coordinated jointly by the Earl Hall Center for Religious Life and the Commencement Office/University Programs and Events. For more information about this event, please visit the University Commencement Website and the Commencement Baccalaureate page. Join our Email List Join our email list to receive information about programs at the Earl Hall Center for Religious Life. Building Hours Earl Hall 9am–5pm, Monday–Friday Closed, Saturday and Sunday St. Paul’s Chapel 9am–5pm, Monday–Friday Closed, Saturday and Sunday Due to private events or facilities needs, opening hours of either building may be changed without prior notice on any given date. 212-854-2184 [email protected] Earl Hall2980 Broadway · New York, NY 10027 St. Paul's ChapelAmsterdam Avenue at 117th Street, 1160 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2184 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close