Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Religion Department of Religion Contact Us Religion@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Devin Singh Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Religion Connect with Us Twitter Devin Singh studies religious thought in the modern West and in sites of colonial encounter, with attention to the Christian tradition and its interaction with economy and politics. In addition to the history of Christian thought, his research engages the philosophy of religion and social ethics. Singh explores questions of religion and politics, religion and economics, secularization, sociology of markets and money, and race & coloniality in relation to religion. Singh identifies with the categories of Asian American, multiracial, third culture, and Brown, and his experiences of racialization and internationalism inform his research, writing, and teaching. His first book, Divine Currency: The Theological Power of Money in the West (Stanford, 2018) examines the ways early Christian thinkers made use of monetary and economic concepts as they created Christian doctrine, and how this close relationship between theology and money has lent a sacred aura to economics as it developed in the West. He is also the author of Economy and Modern Christian Thought (Brill, 2022) which provides a succinct introduction to and overview of scholarship on the dialogue between Christian thought and economy, raising various moral and ethical challenges presented by the encounter. Singh is also co-editor of Reimagining Leadership on the Commons: Shifting the Paradigm for a More Ethical, Equitable, and Just World (Emerald, 2021), which profiles global pioneers implementing commons-based and shared governance structures in the public and private sector. Singh was guest editor for a special issue of Political Theology on "Love in a Time of Capital," and guest co-editor for a special issue of Journal of Religious Ethics on debt. Singh’s work has been supported by the Lilly Endowment and Luce Foundation, and has received national recognition by the Mellon and Whiting Fellowships, Louisville Institute, and the Forum for Theological Exploration, as well as international recognition by the Lautenschlaeger Award from the University of Heidelberg. Prior to joining the faculty at Dartmouth, Singh was a Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow in the Integrated Humanities and Lecturer in Religious Studies at Yale University. He has served more recently as a visiting scholar at Harvard Divinity School's Center for the Study of World Religions (2017-18), and as a visiting scholar at Princeton University's Center for the Study of Religion (2019-20). View Curriculum Vitae Personal Website Contact Devin.P.Singh@Dartmouth.edu HB 6036 Education Ph.D., Yale University M.A., University of Chicago M.Div., Trinity International University B.A., Pomona College Areas of Expertise History of Christian Thought /Philosophy of Religion /Social Ethics /Critical Theory /Religion and Economics /Religion and Politics /Post- and Decolonial Thought Selected Publications Books: Divine Currency: The Theological Power of Money in the West. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2018. Economy and Modern Christian Thought. Leiden: Brill, 2022. Reimagining Leadership on the Commons: Shifting the Paradigm for a More Ethical, Equitable, and Just World. Co-edited with Randal Joy Thompson and Kathleen A. Curran. Bingley, UK: Emerald Press, 2021. Articles and essays: "Religion, Economics, and the Stories We Tell." Harvard Divinity Bulletin, Autumn/Winter 2021 "COVID-19 is Exposing Market Fundamentalism's Many Moral and Practical Flaws" Washington Post, April 10, 2020 "Defaced Coins in a Utopian Market" Political Theology Network, July 9, 2020. "Exceptional Economy: Sovereign Exchanges in Carl Schmitt and Giorgio Agamben" Telos 191 (Summer 2020): 115-136 “Sovereign Debt.” Journal of Religious Ethics 46:2 (2018): 239-266. “Speculating the Subject of Money: Georg Simmel on Human Value.” Religions 7.80 (2016): 1-15. “Irrational Exuberance: Hope, Expectation, and Cool Market Logic.” Political Theology 17.2 (2016): 120-136. “Anarchy, Void, Signature: Agamben’s Trinity Among Orthodoxy’s Remains.” Political Theology 17:1 (2016): 27-46. "Debt Cancellation as Sovereign Crisis Management," Cosmologics Magazine, Jan 18, 2016. “Eusebius as Political Theologian: The Legend Continues.” Harvard Theological Review 108:1 (2015): 129-154. “Iconicity of the Photographic Image: Theodore of Stoudios and André Bazin.” In Byzantium/Modernism, edited by Roland Betancourt and Maria Taroutina, 237-53. Visualizing the Middle Ages. Leiden: Brill, 2015. + View more Speaking Engagements "Teaching Religion and Tech: Ethical and Historical Considerations" (link) Religion, Technology, and Human Presence podcast, 6/1/21 "Crypto-Religons" (link) Re-Enchantments Podcast, 12/2/2021 Cultural Life of Money and Finance Podcast (link), discussion on Divine Currency, Jan 2021 Crazy Money Podcast (link), discussion on Divine Currency, March 2020 Theology Matters Podcast (link), discussion of money, debt, and gifts, Jan 2020 "God and Greed" (link), Invited public lecture for Radboud Reflects, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, Dec 2018 “Debt, Guilt, and the Law: Disentangling Eternal Conflations.” Invited paper presented at University of Kent, UK, Dec 2018. “Economy, Exception and Excess – a Discussion with Devin Singh.” Invited presentation at Copenhagen Business School, Copenhagen, DK, Nov 2018. “History, Genealogy, and Theological Critique.” Invited paper for Patristics and Modern Theology seminar, Oxford University, UK, Nov 2018. “Debt and the Christian Theological Imagination.” The Gunning Lecture (endowed), University of Edinburgh, Oct 2018. “Fragile Belief and the Empty Throne: Theology and Politics after Ascension.” Invited paper for Australian Catholic University Rome Seminar, Rome, Aug 2018. Works In Progress Sacred Debt (Harvard University Press, under contract) Video https://youtu.be/hMAtNxrKZl4 Devin Singh Faculty Portrait Videos PreviousNext Courses REL 1.01 What Matters REL 11 Religion and Morality REL 11.01 God and Money REL 21.01 Religion and Social Capital REL 21.02 Gods and Kings Rel 74.13 Religion and the Rise of Capitalism + View more Related Links Academia.edu Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Religion Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Curriculum Course Schedule Dickinson Seminar Focus on Race Non-Western Courses Honors Program Sperry Fellows Program Past Honors Theses Career Information Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Awards and Prizes The Charles Howard Dudley Prize The Dickinson Senior Writing Prize in Religion The Hans Penner Prize The Religion Department Faculty Award The Sperry Writing Prize in Religion Foreign Study Program News & Events Overview Dickinson Distinguished Lecture Forum on Race & Religion Hardigg Family Fund Lecture Past Fellows Orr Lecture on Culture & Religion Past Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback