Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies All News News Archive 2021 2020 2019 2018 25 Results based on your selections. MLA Daniel Vaca wins honorable mention for new book December 8, 2021 Daniel Vaca, Robert Gale Noyes Assistant Professor of Humanities wins honorable mention for his book, Evangelicals Incorporated: Books and the Business of Religion in America, from the Modern Language Assocation's Matei Calinesco Prize. Read Article Open details for Daniel Vaca wins honorable mention for new book News from Religious Studies New Course Fall 2021: Ecowomanism June 8, 2021 Religious Studies is excited to announce a new course taught this fall 2021: RELS 2600H, Ecowomanism with Visiting Professor Melanie Harris. Read Article Open details for New Course Fall 2021: Ecowomanism News from Religious Studies 2021 McVickar Prize Winners April 26, 2021 The Department of Religious Studies is proud to announce the winners of the Bishop McVickar Thesis Prizes for 2021. Originally instituted in 1909 by the Rt. Rev. William Neilson McVickar, the prizes are awarded annually for the best honor theses written on any topic related to the academic study of religion. Submissions are invited from current Brown University students in any concentration, drawing on any methodology. Read Article Open details for 2021 McVickar Prize Winners Watson Institute Sensing the Sacred - a new podcast with Prof. Finnian Moore Gerety April 6, 2021 Visiting Assistant Professor Finnian Moore-Gerety has teamed up with the Center for Contemporary South Asia at the Watson Institute on a podcast exploring scholarship around South Asian religions across the disciplines - contemplative studies, religious studies, anthropology, history, critical theory and political science. Read Article Open details for Sensing the Sacred - a new podcast with Prof. Finnian Moore Gerety News from Religious Studies Eric K. Ward, Western States Center delivers 2021 K. Brooke Anderson Lecture April 1, 2021 Religious Studies together with the Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life, Brown RISD Hillel, and Brown's Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation are pleased to announce that Eric K. Ward of Western States Center will be delivering this year's K. Brooke Anderson Lecture. Read Article Open details for Eric K. Ward, Western States Center delivers 2021 K. Brooke Anderson Lecture News from Religious Studies Daniel Vaca discusses his new book February 18, 2021 Assistant Professor Daniel Vaca discusses his new book, Evangelicals Incorporated: Books and the Business of Religion in America on the podcast Christian Rightcast. Read Article Open details for Daniel Vaca discusses his new book News from Religious Studies Prof. Nancy Khalek moderates discussion on Hulu's Ramy February 12, 2021 Ramy is a Hulu show about how a first-generation, Egyptian-American Muslim navigates life, dating, and faith. Read Article Open details for Prof. Nancy Khalek moderates discussion on Hulu&#039;s Ramy Regal House Publishing Mark Cladis publishes new book January 5, 2021 Professor Mark Cladis has published a new book, In Search of a Course. In Search of Course draws on a personal narrative of the journey of finding a course "for your life" and a course for "the University." In an interview with Regal House Publishing, Prof. Cladis discusses the process and inspiration for the book. The book will be available in bookstores on January 8, 2021. Read Article Open details for Mark Cladis publishes new book Association for Jewish Studies PhD Alum Karen Stern wins award January 4, 2021 KAREN B. STERN of Brooklyn College, Brown Ph.D. 2006, has won a 2020 Jordan Schnitzer Book Award from the Association for Jewish Studies for her book Writing on the Wall: Graffiti and the Forgotten Jews of Antiquity (Princeton University Press, 2018). Read Article Open details for PhD Alum Karen Stern wins award News from Religious Studies Visiting Assistant Professor Srinivas Reddy's new book May 28, 2020 We're thrilled to share that Visiting Assistant Professor Srinivas Reddy's new book will be released online this week. Please see the information below as shared by the Center for Contemporary South Asia. Please join the Department in congratulating Srini! Read Article Open details for Visiting Assistant Professor Srinivas Reddy&#039;s new book News from Religious Studies Congratulations to the Class of 2020! May 28, 2020 Religious Studies offers its warmest congratulations to the class of 2020! Read Article Open details for Congratulations to the Class of 2020! News from Religious Studies Prof. Joseph Winters, Duke University, to deliver keynote at Graduate Student Conference February 20, 2020 On March 6, 2020 at 6pm, Professor Joseph Winters, Duke University, will present "Death, Spirituality, and the Matter of Blackness," as part of the 2020 Religious Studies Graduate Student Conference, titled, "Death." Read Article Open details for Prof. Joseph Winters, Duke University, to deliver keynote at Graduate Student Conference Patheos Daniel Vaca discusses new book January 30, 2020 Daniel Vaca, the Robert Gale Noyes Assistant Professor of Humanities, and Religious Studies very own Director of Undergraduate Studies discusses his new book, Evangelicals Incorporated: Books and the Business of Religion in America with John Turner on the blog Anxious Bench on the Patheos website. Read Article Open details for Daniel Vaca discusses new book News from Religious Studies Shahzad Bashir wins Presidential Faculty Award January 28, 2020 Professor Shahzad Bashir is the recipient of the Presidential Faculty Award and will present the corresponding lecture, on Feb. 24, 2020. Read Article Open details for Shahzad Bashir wins Presidential Faculty Award News from Religious Studies Religious Studies announces new undergraduate research prizes February 28, 2019 The Department is delighted to announce the Bishop McVickar Prizes for Research. Read Article Open details for Religious Studies announces new undergraduate research prizes News from Religious Studies Eighth North American Syriac Symposium Announces Call For Papers September 6, 2018 The Eighth North American Syriac Symposium will convene on June 16-19, 2019. Read Article Open details for Eighth North American Syriac Symposium Announces Call For Papers News from Religious Studies Religious Studies Fall 2018 Courses September 6, 2018 Check out Religious Studies Fall 2018 courses as you shop this semester. Read Article Open details for Religious Studies Fall 2018 Courses News from Religious Studies Religious Studies welcomes Dr. Charrise Barron September 6, 2018 Religious Studies is pleased to welcome postdoc, Charrise Barron to the Department! Read Article Open details for Religious Studies welcomes Dr. Charrise Barron The Syndicate Prof. Thomas Lewis’ New Book August 31, 2018 Prof. Thomas Lewis' most recent book, Why Philosophy Matters for the Study of Religion and Vice-Versa, has been highlighted on the prominent academic website the Syndicate. The website devotes itself to the intellectual discussion of scholarship in the Humanities. To join the discussion on Prof. Lewis' book click here. Read Article Open details for Prof. Thomas Lewis’ New Book News from Religious Studies Religious Studies welcomes Prof. Jae H. Han to the faculty August 31, 2018 Jae Hee Han comes to Brown after receiving his PhD in Religious Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. Read Article Open details for Religious Studies welcomes Prof. Jae H. Han to the faculty News from Religious Studies Congratulations to this year's the Bishop McVickar Prize Winners! May 14, 2018 Religious Studies is pleased to announce the winners of this year's McVickar's Prize! Read Article Open details for Congratulations to this year&#039;s the Bishop McVickar Prize Winners! News from Religious Studies D. Max Moerman gives lecture on talismans in pre-modern Japan April 11, 2018 D. Max Moerman, Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Cultures, Barnard College, Columbia University will present a lecture on Thursday, April 12 at 5:30pm in the Petteruti Lounge. Read Article Open details for D. Max Moerman gives lecture on talismans in pre-modern Japan News from Religious Studies Religious Studies announces new position in New Testament/Early Christianity April 10, 2018 We are pleased to announce the arrival of Jae Hee Han who will become an Assistant Professor of Religious Studies in the area of New Testament/Early Chrisitanity beginning July 1, 2018. Read Article Open details for Religious Studies announces new position in New Testament/Early Christianity News from Religious Studies Brown to hold Eighth North American Syriac Symposium June 2019 April 10, 2018 Brown is pleased to announce that the University is to be the location of Eighth North American Syriac Symposium in June 16-19, 2019. Read Article Open details for Brown to hold Eighth North American Syriac Symposium June 2019 News from Religious Studies New Ph.D. Track: Islam, Society and Culture (ISC) March 7, 2018 Beginning in January 2018, we are pleased to be accepting applications for our new Ph.D. track in Islam, Society and Culture. Read Article Open details for New Ph.D. Track: Islam, Society and Culture (ISC) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page