Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean Breadcrumb Home Events Sub Navigation In This Section Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean The Brown University seminar on Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean (CRAM) serves as a gathering to promote high-level, interdisciplinary dialogue among faculty and graduate students who deal with religion and culture in the ancient Mediterranean basin and west Asia in the broadest terms. CRAM meets monthly during the academic year. Each meeting lasts about an hour, and typically is centered on a pre-circulated paper by one of our participants. We are especially interested in work in progress; CRAM is a great context for working on new ideas and thinking through new problems. CRAM is administerd by the Program in Early Cultures. For details or questions, please contact Susan Harvey, Director of the Program in Early Cultures. Below is the CRAM schedule for the 2018-2019 academic year. Please note, all events except for the September 13 meeting, will take place on a Tuesday. All meetings take place 12:00-1:00p.m. at the Joukowsky Institute, RI Hall, Room 008. Papers will be emailed out approximately two weeks ahead of the date indicated. If you have difficulties accessing the upcoming paper, please contact Sara Wintz. Light luncheon fare will be provided! Please come and enjoy! Newcomers are always welcome. For the most up to date information, including a list of dates and presenters, please visit the Program in Early Cultures website. View a PDF of past events Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean Open details for Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean Bookmark this Page