Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Breadcrumb Home Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Asian Religious Traditions (ART) Islam, Society and Culture (ISC) Religion and Critical Thought (RCT) Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean (RAM) Apply Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) We offers Ph.D. study in four areas: Asian Religious Traditions, Islam, Society and Culture, Religion and Critical Thought, and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean. RAM now incorporates our prior Ph.D. programs in Early Christianity, and in Ancient Judaism, as well as various other ancient Mediterranean religions. All applications to study one or more religions of the Ancient Mediterranean should be made to RAM. Prospective applicants should also note that it is no longer possible to apply for the track in Religion, Comparison and Culture. Students interested in comparative work across two or more areas (ART, ISC, RCT, and RAM) should consult with the Director of Graduate Studies and the Graduate Advisor for these areas before submitting an application. Asian Religious Traditions (ART) ART offers training in Asian religions in their historical, intellectual, and cultural contexts. Islam, Society and Culture (ISC) This field is devoted, but not limited, to the study of Islamic beliefs and practices within the cultural and historical context of the Middle East and South and Central Asia. Religion and Critical Thought (RCT) RCT students in this program focus on issues, problems, and texts concerning: philosophy and religion, religious ethics (that is, the interrelation among religion, ethics, and politics), and the theory of religion. Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean (RAM) RAM students focus on the interdisciplinary study of religion throughout the ancient Mediterranean and Near-East. Contact Prospective applicants are welcome to direct inquiries to Prof. Stephen Bush (Stephen_Bush@brown.edu) and/or any faculty member in the listed areas. Graduate Advisors Stephen Bush Director of Graduate Studies, Associate Professor of Religious Studies Stephen_Bush@brown.edu RCT: Religion and Critical Thought Jason Protass William A. Dyer Jr. Assistant Professor of the Humanities Jason_Protass@brown.edu ART: Asian Religious Traditions Susan Ashbrook Harvey Director of the Program in Early Cultures, Willard Prescott and Annie McClelland Smith Professor of History and Religion Susan_Harvey@brown.edu RAM: Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean Nancy Khalek Associate Professor of Religious Studies Nancy_Khalek@brown.edu ISC: Islam, Society and Culture Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Open details for Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Bookmark this Page