Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies Advising Breadcrumb Home Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines Advising Listing of advisors by area and the advising structure. Advisors Asian Religious Traditions (ART) Jason Protass William A. Dyer Jr. Assistant Professor of the Humanities Jason_Protass@brown.edu Harold Roth Professor of Religious Studies, Director of the Contemplative Studies Initiative Harold_Roth@brown.edu Janine Sawada Professor of Religious Studies and East Asian Studies Janine_Sawada@brown.edu James Fitzgerald St. Purander Das Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Classics James_Fitzgerald@brown.edu Islam, Society and Culture (ISC) Shahzad Bashir Aga Khan Professor of Islamic Humanities, Professor of History Shahzad_Bashir@brown.edu Nancy Khalek Associate Professor of Religious Studies Nancy_Khalek@brown.edu Religion and Critical Thought (RCT) Stephen Bush Director of Graduate Studies, Associate Professor of Religious Studies Stephen_Bush@brown.edu Mark Cladis Department Chair, Brooke Russell Astor Professor of Humanities Mark_Cladis@brown.edu Thomas Lewis Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (Graduate School), Professor of Religious Studies Thomas_Lewis@brown.edu Paul Nahme Dorot Assistant Professor of Judaic Studies, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies Paul_Nahme@brown.edu Andre C. Willis Associate Professor of Religious Studies Andre_Willis@brown.edu Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean (RAM) Susan Ashbrook Harvey Director of the Program in Early Cultures, Willard Prescott and Annie McClelland Smith Professor of History and Religion Susan_Harvey@brown.edu Nancy Khalek Associate Professor of Religious Studies Nancy_Khalek@brown.edu Ross Kraemer Professor Emerita of Religious Studies and Judaic Studies Ross_Kraemer@brown.edu Saul Olyan Samuel Ungerleider Jr. Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Religious Studies Saul_Olyan@brown.edu Michael Satlow Professor of Religious Studies and Judaic Studies Michael_Satlow@brown.edu Stanley K. Stowers Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies Stanley_Stowers@brown.edu Advising Structure For the years prior to advancing to candidacy, the advising structure varies among the three areas. In ART and RCT, students are individually assigned an advisor upone entering the program but are strongly encouraged to consult with other core faculty as well. ART and RCT also have area advisors who are responsible for checking up on all of the area students and advising them regarding requirements. RAM has two area advisors, one for students focusing on the religions of ancient West Asia, and the other for students focusing on the religions of the Greco-Roman or early Islamic Mediterranean. The area advisor generally serves as the student's primary advisor through the Preliminary Examinations phase, except in RAM, where entering students are generally assigned an advisory committee upon matriculation. Graduate students, however, are expected to take primary responsibility for their schedules. This means that while students must carefully consult with the members of the core faculty in their area, the faculty expect students to develop and be able to justify their own schedule. Typically, students still taking courses should develop a preliminary schedule and discuss it with other core faculty as well as the advisor. Dissertation Although students may begin formulating a dissertation topic at any time during their course work, during the early stages of the examination process students should be actively thinking about the formal dissertation proposal and the best person to advise the dissertation. Candidacy Once a student has advanced to candidacy, the dissertation advisor serves as the student's primary advisor through completion. Most graduate students continue to consult with other faculty in their area for advice about various aspects of their professional program. Additional Information Progress & Evaluations The Department of Religious Studies expects that all Ph.D. students will make satisfactory and timely progress through the graduate program, and all funding is contingent on such progress. Graduate Student Handbook The primary purpose of this Handbook is to provide information geared to the needs of graduate students at all levels in Religious Studies. Graduate Student Organization The Graduate Student Organization for the Department of Religious Studies promotes the development of community in the department across faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate concentrators. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Advising Open details for Advising Bookmark this Page