Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Religious Studies Home Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Calendar People Faculty Bookshelf News Contact Welcome The Yale Department of Religious Studies, established in its present form in 1963, is one of the leading scholarly communities dedicated to the study of religion. Our faculty research religions from around the world in an effort to understand the role of religions as social movements, textual traditions, sensory cultures, and arbiters of value. The Yale Department of Religious Studies maintains strong ties to a number of other departments in Yale College and the Yale Graduate School. Faculty and students in Religious Studies programs are able to take advantage of Yale’s rich resources, including six major research libraries. One of the world’s finest libraries for the study of religion is located at the Yale Divinity School. The Divinity School and the Department of Religious Studies share some faculty, and have strong ties, but are distinct entities with separate degree programs. The Department is committed to providing a safe, respectful, and supportive environment for all of its students, faculty, and staff. Nothing is more important to the quality of intellectual community we share. The Department takes concerns about misconduct and other forms of discrimination very seriously, and the University maintains a number of resources to address questions concerning them: Sexual Misconduct Response at Yale Office of the Provost-Title IX Office for Equal Opportunity Programs News Louis Dupré, distinguished philosopher of religion March 1, 2022 Louis Dupré, T. Lawrason Riggs Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies, Catholic phenomenologist and religious philosopher, heralded in Commonweal as “one of the most... Frank Griffel appointed Louis M. Rabinowitz Professor of Religious Studies February 17, 2022 Frank Griffel, who is among the world’s leading scholars of Islamic intellectual history and philosophy, has been appointed the Louis M. Rabinowitz Professor of Religious... Davis named Woolsey Professor of Religious Studies and Professor of History February 2, 2022 Stephen J. Davis, who studies ancient and medieval Christianity with a focus on the eastern Mediterranean, has been appointed the Woolsey Professor of Religious Studies and... More news... RLST @ Yale Twitter Feed Tweets by RLST@Yale Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Defining Religion Since 1963 Contact site editor or department at (203) 432-0828 Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube