Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Religious Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Search Department of Religious Studies For Faculty For Faculty Forms and Other Relevant Information. Reimbursements In order to receive reimbursements for travel, supplies, books, etc; or to get a vendor or guest speaker paid please fill out the Religious Studies Reimbursement Form and submit with necessary receipts to Nicole_Vadnais@brown.edu. In lieu of the form, you may submit an itemized list of expenses, with business purpose and budget information. Receipts should include payment method. All expense reports are due within 60 days of purchase, or if traveling, within 60 days of the return date. Please note the University policy change on car rentals: The University has made an agreement with Enterprise/National Car Rental for all car rentals. University employees should use these two car rental agencies for all vehicle rentals for University business and reserve them through Brown's Travel Portal. The contractual rate includes liability insurance and collision damage insurance. Use of other car rental agencies is permissible when National Car and Enterpise are not available in the region you are traveling. Reimbursement will be based on the contracted rates through Brown's preferred suppliers. More information on Brown's travel policies. Faculty Travel Fund Apply for Faculty Travel Funds Please note on the FTF Homepage that on-line applications must be submitted prior to travel and received by no later than May 30th. The applicant and Department Managers will receive email notification as soon as the application is approved by the manager for the Office of Faculty Governance. The Department Manager may then process FTF transactions through Workday Financials using the FTF Worktags. Department Managers should not charge the Faculty Travel Fund without prior approval from the Office of Faculty Governance. If you have any questions or concerns regarding the Faculty Travel Fund, please feel free to contact Joel Revill. Inviting International Scholars Please check in with the Departmental Manager, Nicole Vadnais, Nicole_Vadnais@brown.edu, before issuing invitations to international scholars to Brown. The scholar must request the proper visa before entering the country in order to be paid correctly. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Advising Courses Capstone & Honors Honors Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Bishop McVickar Prizes FAQ Graduate Doctoral Programs (Ph.D) Coursework and Requirements Advising Progress & Evaluations Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Organization Funding Opportunities TA Guidelines People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Visiting & Affiliated Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Research News Events Cultures and Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Past Events Statement on Equity Equity, Diversity & Inclusion in the Field Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search For Faculty Open details for For Faculty Bookmark this Page