Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Religious Studies Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Standing Faculty Emeriti Faculty Graduate Group Adjunct Faculty Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students Recent Degree Recipients and Job Market Candidates Undergraduate Majors and Minors Staff News Events Courses Undergraduate Major Minor Honors Combined B.A./M.A. Research Opportunities Awards Graduate Research Areas Requirements Application Graduate Awards Resources Search Jamal J. Elias Walter H. Annenberg Professor of the HumanitiesProfessor of Religious Studies he/him/his jjelias@upenn.edu Website Jamal J. Elias is the Director of the Wolf Humanities Center. He specializes in Islamic thought, literature and history in Western, Central and South Asia, with a focus on Sufism and Visual Culture. He regularly teaches courses in his areas of specialization, on Islam and modernity and on comparative religion, as well as advanced graduate courses in Qur'anic Studies as well as Persian and Turkish religious literature. He is the author of Alef is for Allah: Childhood, Emotion and Visual Culture in Islamic Societies (Berkeley 2018); Aisha's Cushion: Religious Art, Perception and Practice in Islam (Cambridge, MA 2012); On Wings of Diesel: Trucks, Identity and Culture in Pakistan (Oxford 2011); This is Islam: From Muhammad and the Community of Believers to Islam in the Global Community (Great Barrington 2011); Islam (London 1999);The Throne Carrier of God: The Life and Thought of ‘Ala’ ad-dawla as-Simnani (Albany 1995); the coauthor of Interpreting the Self: Autobiography in the Arabic Literary Tradition (Berkeley 2001); the editor and translator of Death Before Dying: Sufi Poems of Sultan Bahu (Berkeley 1998); the editor of Key Themes for the Study of Islam (Oxford 2010); the coeditor of Light Upon Light: A Festschrift presented to Gerhard Böwering by His Students (Leiden 2019); and the author of numerous articles. His writings have been translated into at least nine languages. At present he is writing a book on the history of the Mevlevi order (Rumi's followers) from shortly after Rumi's death until the advent of modernity, focusing on the role of interpersonal relationships and the impact of social changes on the use of language. He is also the lead investigator on a project entitled "Art and Islam in Society: Aesthetic Cognition Expanding Religious Meaning," funded by the Temple Religion for Trust. Education Ph.D., Religious Studies, Yale University M.A., Religious Studies, Yale University M.A., Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, University of Pennsylvania B.A., Religious Studies, Stanford University Research Interests Islamic thought and metaphysics Religion and Visual Culture Popular Culture in Western and South Asia Sufi literature Qur'anic Studies Research Areas Islamic Studies Western, Central & South Asian Islamic history Material and Visual Culture Courses Taught Islam and Modernity Love, Sex and Death Sufism Qur'anic Studies Islam and the Religious Image Religion and Visual Culture Islamic Metaphysics The Perisan Intellectual Tradition Sufism in the Ottoman Empire CV (file) Elias_cv.pdf282.62 KB Books Light Upon Light Light upon Light: Essays in Islamic Thought and History in Honor of Gerhard Bowering brings together studies that explore the richness of Islamic intellectual life in the pre-modern period Alef is for Allah: Childhood Emotion and Visual Culture in Islamic Societies Alef Is for Allah is the first groundbreaking study of the emotional space occupied by children in modern Islamic societies. Aisha’s Cushion: Religious Art, Perception, and Practice in Islam Media coverage of the Danish cartoon crisis and the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan left Westerners with a strong impression that Islam does not countenance depiction of religious imagery. Key Themes for the Study of Islam Key Themes for the Study of Islam examines the central themes and concepts indispensable to an informed understanding of Islamic religion and society. On Wings of Diesel: Trucks, Identity, and Culture in Pakistan Illustrated with beautiful colour photos throughout, On Wings of Diesel takes us on a journey through the fascinating world of Pakistani truck decoration. Islam Islam is a concise and readable survey of the history of Islam from the birth of Muhammad in seventh century Arabia to the differing situations of Muslims throughout today's world. Death before Dying: The Sufi Poems of Sultan Bahu These 115 poems introduce readers in English to Sultan Bahu (d. 1691), a Sufi mystical poet who continues to be one of the most beloved writers in Punjabi. The Throne Carrier of God: The Life and Thought of ‘Ala’ ad-dawla as-Simnani This book constitutes a comprehensive investigation of the life and teachings of one of the most famous Sufis of the Iranian world. Main navigation People Standing Faculty Emeriti Faculty Graduate Group Adjunct Faculty Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students Recent Degree Recipients and Job Market Candidates Undergraduate Majors and Minors Staff Contact Us Department of Religious Studies 201 Cohen Hall 249 S. 36th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6304 Anthea Butler Department Chair Donovan Schaefer Interim Graduate Chair Justin McDaniel Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn WebLogin