Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Renaissance Studies Home Graduate Studies Faculty Students Events Early Modern Happenings Welcome The Renaissance Studies program at Yale offers graduate students the opportunity to focus on the history and culture of the late medieval and early modern periods, (circa 1300-1700) with an emphasis on interdisciplinary approaches. The program draws upon the rich resources of various departments, libraries, and museums at Yale. Graduate students who are admitted into the program pursue the Ph.D. degree jointly with one of eight departments: Classics, Comparative Literature, English, French, History, History of Art, Italian, Music, or Spanish and Portuguese Yale University’s doctoral program in Renaissance Studies offers a combined Ph.D. degree with a second department and integrates concentration in that department with interdisciplinary study of the broader range of culture in the Renaissance and early modern period. For more information, please visit the Graduate Studies page. A NOTICE TO PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS 2021 We regret to announce that Yale’s combined Phd program in Renaissance Studies will not be accepting applications during the 2021 admissions cycle. In order to ensure that the program has resources to adequately support its students during the Covid-19 pandemic, we will hold off on bringing new students directly into the program until 2022. However, since we are a combined degree program, you still have the option to apply directly to whichever of our nine affiliated departments you are interested in joining (except for History of Art, which is not accepting applications this year). If you are granted admission to your department of choice, you will have the option during your first year at Yale to join Renaissance Studies. This is an option that has been available since the creation of the combined degree program, and which has been chosen by several of our current students. If you would still like to apply to Yale this year, please return to your application to change the selections on the Program of Study tab. You must remove “Renaissance Studies” as a selection, but you are free to choose one of our nine departments if you wish. You may make any other necessary changes, and resubmit your application when ready. You will not need to pay the application fee again. Please be sure to adhere to program application deadlines. Please know that the decision to eliminate direct applications to Renaissance Studies was not an easy one, but we have decided that our priority during these unsettled times is to take care of those who are already in our program; we believe that this is the most responsible course of action at the present moment. We look forward to reading applications again in the fall of 2021 for the 2022 cohort. If you have any questions, please contact the program chair: ayesha.ramachandran@yale.edu Program Information renaissancestudies@yale.edu Chair and DGS: Ayesha Ramachandran Associate Professor of Comparative Literature Campus Address: Humanities Quadrangle, 320 York Street, New Haven, CT 06511 Fourth floor Mailing Address: Renaissance Studies Program PO Box 208298 New Haven, CT 06520 Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube