Skip to main content Toggle navigation College of Forestry Apply Visit Give Directory Search About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Outreach International Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Alumni + Friends MyCoF About Vision Mission Academic Departments Research Forests Elliott State Forest HJ Andrews Forest Meet the College Our Blog Undergraduate Programs Forestry Forest Engineering Natural Resources Renewable Materials Tourism, Recreation + Adventure Leadership Request More Information Graduate Programs Forest Ecosystems and Society Sustainable Forest Management Wood Science Master of Natural Resources Graduate Certificates Major Professors + Advisors Research Our Research Centers, Institutes and Programs Our Facilities Our Forests Outreach Forestry + Natural Resources Extension Ask An Expert Continuing and Professional Education Fire Program Master Woodland Manager Northwest Fire Science Consortium Oregon Master Naturalist Oregon Natural Resources Education Program Oregon Environmental Literacy Program Oregon Wood Innovation Center PNW Agroforestry Working Group Starker Lectures Women Owning Woodlands Wood Magic Our Impact International Opportunities Abroad Visiting Students and Scholars International Partnerships Funding Opportunities Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Alumni + Friends Donate Get Involved Career Support Connect Events OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation MyCoF Faculty/Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Student Services Renewable Materials Degree Creating a Greener Future Renewable materials major Quinn Smesrud wants to pursue a green building industry career after graduation. Apply Request Info Renewable Materials Degree Building a sustainable economy depends on using wood and organic materials for construction, energy and products we use every day. You can apply state-of-the-art technology to improve manufacturing and manage renewable materials businesses, or even create your own company. You can go on to create innovative products, coordinate supply chains domestically or internationally, market products, start new businesses and more. BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As a renewable materials student, you can engage in learning activities outside the classroom from the moment you step on campus. The renewable materials research programs impact every single person in the state or Oregon, and are important to the environmental, economic and social needs of the rest of the nation and the world. You can also study abroad during your Oregon state career. Programs range from a few weeks to a year in destinations across six continents, with scholarships available to help offset costs. Finally, required internship experiences will allow you to apply your knowledge and make connections throughout the industry. Thanks to a comprehensive and flexible educational approach, you will leave Oregon State ready to make a difference and become a leader in your career of choice. RENEWABLE MATERIALS DEGREE OPTIONS: Advanced Wood Manufacturing Art + Design Marketing + Management Science + Engineering Friends of Renewable Materials Scholarship “Professor Seri Robinson is one of my favorite human beings and they have helped me through some tough times." - Greta Van Calcar, Class of 2021 “My dream is to build a completely self-sustaining home.” - Joshua Stump, BS, 2020 "Deciding what to build and how to construct it and then watching it all come together is a rewarding experience." - Raquel Albee, graduate student "Knowing the importance of mass timber in the context of the environment and sustainability make it a passion I wish to pursue for as long as I can." - Mika Donahue, BS, 2019 Previous Next Paying For College There are a variety of options for you to fund your education. Over $550,000 in scholarships are available - and that's just from the College of Forestry. The College of Forestry is dedicated to making sure our degrees are affordable. General Information CoF Scholarships OSU Scholarships Scholarships for Incoming Students Community Scholarships OSU Financial Aid Possible Careers: Environmental or Sustainability Manager Environmental managers typically work for private companies. Their job is to ensure that their employers comply with both internal and external environmental requirements. In other words, their corporation sets its own standards for keeping its operations environmentally sound and the state and federal government has numerous compliance laws as well. Salary range: $46,000-$133,000 Possible Careers: Materials / Wood Products Scientist Study and learn more about the renewable materials people use every day. Salary range: $44,000-$73,500 Possible Careers: Interior Designer Create spaces appropriate for a variety of applications utilizing a developed sense of color, aesthetics, and appropriate materials. Salary range: $27,200-$47,800 Possible Careers: Specialty wood marketing and production Scout for character wood like curly, birds eye, and spalted to sell to manufacturers; create your own character wood or interact with developing markets across the world in changing perceptions of flawless wood-based products. Salary range: $35,000-$71,000 Oregon Forest Science Complex The OFSC features 20 classrooms, computer rooms and laboratories, including the FERN Student Center and the Peavy Arboretum, where faculty, students, and researchers can participate in active learning and discovery while utilizing state-of-the-art equipment. Visit Full OFSC Site > Experiential Learning Renewable Materials students have the benefit of working extremely close with world-class faculty to find opportunities for work experience, internships and more. Faculty members lead a study abroad program to Alpine Europe especially for their students, to see and study historical wood architecture and modern mass timber construction. The possibilities to gain experience and learn outside the classroom are pretty much endless. Opportunities Abroad Research Internships College Research Forests Mentored Employment Additional Opportunities College of Forestry Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-5704 Tel: 541-737-2004 Contact us Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Forest Ecosystems and Society Forest Engineering, Resources and Management Wood Science and Engineering College Research Forests Forestry and Natural Resources Extension