Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Information Home COVID-19 Information Updates As the spring 2022 semester comes to a close, we have reached a new stage as vaccination and testing availability, treatments, and changes in guidance from the Centers from Disease Control have all evolved. In recognition of this changed reality, President Mun Choi has suspended UM System policy HR-702, which set requirements and expectations of staff and faculty regarding COVID-19 safety practices. Additionally, students are no longer required to submit reports of positive COVID tests to the university. The university’s data-tracking dashboard was suspended at the conclusion of the spring semester on May 13, 2022. Archived data can be found on the case data page. Faculty and staff members are expected to manage their own personal health regarding COVID as they do for other contagious illnesses. We encourage everyone to follow the latest guidance on the CDC website. Vaccines CDC recommends that people remain up to date with their vaccines, which includes additional doses for individuals who are immunocompromised or booster doses at the appropriate times. How to get vaccinated Students Students can call the MU Student Health Center to schedule an appointment for a vaccine or a booster shot (573-882-7481). Faculty and staff There are many COVID-19 vaccinators in our community, and the easiest way to find one near you is by visiting vaccines.gov. Symptom self-monitoring All university community members should be aware of the symptoms of COVID-19 and self-monitor their health for signs of illness. Stay home if you feel unwell, are waiting for test results, have been exposed to someone who has COVID-19 or have tested positive. Testing The CDC recommends that anyone with any signs or symptoms of COVID-19 get tested, regardless of vaccination status or prior infection. MU Students MU students should contact the Student Health Center at 573-882-7481 for testing. Hours Mon./Tues./Thurs./Fri. 8 a.m.– 5 p.m. Wed. 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Please note: The Student Health Center is closed on Saturday and Sunday. Employees and other community members MU Health Care offers several testing options. Costs vary depending on testing location. Options include: Contact your primary care provider’s office. Visit Mizzou Quick Care. Visit Mizzou Urgent Care. At-home COVID-19 tests through university medical insurance or U.S. government Faculty and staff and their dependents enrolled in a university medical insurance plan can obtain up to eight at-home COVID-19 tests every 30 days for each person on the plan for a $0 copay. Visit the Express Scripts COVID-19 Resource Center for information on picking up tests from a participating pharmacy or requesting reimbursement if paying out of pocket. You can also get free at-home COVID-19 tests from covid.gov/tests. Quarantine and isolation The CDC has developed a calculator to help determine how long you need to isolate, quarantine or take other steps to prevent spreading COVID-19. It provides a simple, easy-to-use way to help people follow CDC’s quarantine and isolation guidance and get customized information that applies to their unique situation. Face coverings People may choose to mask at any time. People who have been exposed to someone with COVID-19 should wear a mask. If you have symptoms, you should stay home. If you are at high risk for severe illness, talk to your health care provider about whether you need to wear a mask and take other precautions. Hand hygiene Proper hand washing remains one of our best defenses against the spread of clinical disease: Wash hands (with soap and water for at least 20 seconds) frequently throughout the day. If soap and water are not readily available, you can use an ethyl alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%-95% alcohol. Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing. Throw used tissues in the trash. Wash your hands with soap and water immediately after coughing, sneezing, blowing your nose or using the restroom. Mental health and wellness Mizzou is here to help with a variety of wellness and mental health resources. More information Some units across campus, including MU Health Care, the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, School of Health Professions and certain facilities in the College of Veterinary Medicine, may continue to have requirements that are specific to their units. University facilities and operations in other parts of the state will follow local public health guidance. Case data Accommodations If you have a medical condition that requires an accommodation, students can contact the Disability Center, and employees can contact the Office of Accessibility and ADA. Additional resources Boone County COVID-19 community level Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Missouri Department of Health & Senior Services Columbia/Boone County Public Health MU Health Care Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.