Home Search Browse Collections My Account About Digital Commons Network™ Contact Us Penn Libraries My Account Help About ScholarlyCommons Home Skip to main content ScholarlyCommons Collections by Research Unit Journals Thesis/Dissertations Researcher Profiles Home > SEAS > IME Institute for Medicine and Engineering The mission of the Institute for Medicine and Engineering (IME) is to stimulate fundamental research at the interface between biomedicine and engineering/physical/computational sciences leading to innovative applications in biomedical research and clinical practice. The IME was created in 1996 by the Schools of Medicine (SOM) and Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS) to pursue opportunities for collaborative research. The IME has been successful in obtaining over $80 million in extramural grants, and funded programs. These include a research center in Cell Studies of Pulmonary Artery Hypertension, and a Penn Center for Molecular Discovery. Membership: The Institute houses 11 core faculty, 6 from the School of Medicine and 5 from SEAS, who were recruited to form the basis for the IME; however, the Institute extends beyond the core group to include 106 members from various schools including School of Medicine, SEAS and Arts and Sciences faculty. The Institute interacts with 24 other Centers or departments. Multi-disciplinary Research: The IME mission to foster research at the interface of medicine and engineering is met (i) through 8 central investigators who span these disciplines in both schools, (ii) through the core facilities, pilot grant programs, research training, and educational events involving its very wide membership (of 106). The research conducted by central investigators is quite broad, ranging from cell and molecular biology to tissue engineering, biophysics and nanobiology/medicine. Having established a strong basic research foundation the Institute is now expanding translational programs in medicine and engineering. Strategic Importance: The IME relates directly to 3 major themes of the SOM Research Strategic Plan: Cancer, Neurosciences and Cardiovascular Biology. The University Strategic Plan identifies the link between engineering and medicine as one of the key drivers of success and recommends "fostering advances in engineering, computing, chemistry, mathematics and behavioral sciences that can be applied to life sciences." Because of the multi-disciplinary nature of the Institute, it is well positioned to take advantage of the new NIH roadmap. Because of its unique interface with SEAS, the IME is a strong force in faculty retention by providing unique directions and connections for research among faculty. Follow Browse the Institute for Medicine and Engineering Collections: Institute for Medicine and Engineering Papers Search Enter search terms: Select context to search: in this collection in this repository across all repositories Advanced Search Notify me via email or RSS ABOUT About ScholarlyCommons Services FAQ Policies Contact SUBMIT Submit Research Submission Instructions Browse Collections Subjects Authors Dissertations Authors Author Help Links IME Website RESOURCES Penn’s Statement of Principles on Open Access Penn Law Legal Scholarship Repository Research Data and Digital Scholarship at Penn GUIDES ScholarlyCommons Copyright Data Management Digital Commons Home | About | FAQ | My Account | Accessibility Statement Privacy Copyright