Home Search Browse Collections My Account About Digital Commons Network™ Contact Us Penn Libraries My Account Help About ScholarlyCommons Home Skip to main content ScholarlyCommons Collections by Research Unit Journals Thesis/Dissertations Researcher Profiles Home > Penn History Review Follow To peruse previous editions of the Penn History Review, please use the "Browse" drop down menu on the left side or bottom of the page to choose a specific volume and issue. Founded in 1991, the Penn History Review is a journal for undergraduate historical research. Published twice a year through the Department of History, the journal is a non-profit publication produced by and primarily for undergraduates. The editorial board of the Review is dedicated to publishing the most original and scholarly research submitted for our consideration. For more information about submissions, please e-mail phrsubmissions@gmail.com. Submission Instructions Submissions should meet the following criteria: Minimum 12 pages, double spaced Written by and submitted by an undergraduate Bibliography that distinguishes between primary and secondary sources Submitted as a Word document Never published in another journal (and if we select if for publication, you will have to agree not to publish it in another journal). Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/pennhistoryreview Current Issue: Volume 28, Issue 2 Full Issue PDF Fall 2021 Full Issue Letters From the Editor PDF Letter from the Editor Eden Vance Journal Articles PDF L’Advocacie Nostre Dame and the Professionalization of Canon Law practice and Education in Fourteenth Century Anglo-Norman France Sumant Rao PDF A Network of Communities: Jews, Communal Boundaries, and Movement in Seventeenth-Century Istanbul Elyakim Engelmann-Suissa PDF Anti-Christian Rhetoric and Neoplatonic Thought in Against the Galileans Carson R. Greene PDF Zhang Taiyan’s Response to Evolutionary History and His Revolutionary Discourse Chunhao Luo Journal Home About This Journal Aims & Scope Editorial Board Policies Publication Ethics Statement Undergraduate Research Commons Receive Email Notices or RSS Select an issue: All Issues Vol. 28, Iss. 2 Vol. 28, Iss. 1 Vol. 27, Iss. 2 Vol. 27, Iss. 1 Vol. 26, Iss. 2 Vol. 26, Iss. 1 Vol. 25, Iss. 2 Vol. 25, Iss. 1 Vol. 24, Iss. 2 Vol. 24, Iss. 1 Vol. 23, Iss. 2 Vol. 23, Iss. 1 Vol. 20, Iss. 1 Vol. 19, Iss. 2 Vol. 19, Iss. 1 Vol. 18, Iss. 2 Vol. 18, Iss. 1 Vol. 17, Iss. 2 Vol. 17, Iss. 1 Vol. 16, Iss. 2 Vol. 16, Iss. 1 Vol. 15, Iss. 2 Vol. 15, Iss. 1 Search Enter search terms: Select context to search: in this journal in this repository across all repositories Advanced Search Digital Commons Home | About | FAQ | My Account | Accessibility Statement Privacy Copyright