Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff Brown Digital Repository Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × Feedback Discover Browse Collections Deposited Content Theses & Dissertations Library Collections Recently Added About I Want to Upload Something Assign a DOI Consult on a Project Use an API Read FAQs Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 13 subheader links Home Feedback Discover ▾ Browse Collections Deposited Content Theses & Dissertations Library Collections Recently Added About I Want to ▾ Upload Something Assign a DOI Consult on a Project Use an API Read FAQs Login ⚲ Top ... History of Capitalism bdr:x6qjs69e History of Capitalism Bibliography Full Metadata Overview Year: 2021 Contributor: Rockman, Seth (Author) Ahmad, Osama (Author) Chen, Marine (Author) Conley, Maxmilian (Author) de Oliveira, Augusta (Author) El-Shabazz, Taaja (Author) Erginbas, Ebru (Author) Frazier, Norman (Author) Islam, Nabila (Author) MacDonald, Jonathan (Author) Moral, Radhika (Author) Rosario Rosario, Jorge (Author) Sintetos, Nicole (Author) Ghassan Tadros, Nadia (Author) Yoon, Jongook (Author) Genre: annotated bibliographies Subject: Capitalism History Extent: 90 p. DOI https://doi.org/10.26300/z7sp-2v96 Files View MODS File Download MODS File ViewMODS View PDF File Download PDF File ViewPDF Description Abstract: Featuring scholarship primarily published since 2012, this bibliography is meant to draw on the diverse expertise of the students in the course to define the field as broadly as possible in terms of chronology, geography, methodology, and disciplinarity. Students were tasked with contributing entries, while Professor Rockman contributed an introductory framing for each week. The bibliography follows a general chronology from the era of early modern global integration to the present. Many now-canonical texts in the field were omitted in favor of recent scholarship, much of which was produced by scholars who would not necessarily identify as historians of capitalism. Certain topics (e.g. labor resistance to capitalism, colonialism, slavery and abolition) appear in multiple places.The entries devote less attention to intellectual history and the theorization of capitalism, and instead foreground the “capitalism in action” of people doing specific things in discrete times and places. Views Open Default View Default Open Full Metadata View Full Metadata | Files Download MODS Datastream ViewMODS Download PDF Datastream ViewPDF Content Access Conditions Use and Reproduction Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0) Rights In Copyright Citation Rockman, Seth, Ahmad, Osama, Chen, Marine, et al., "History of Capitalism Bibliography" (2021). History of Capitalism. Brown Digital Repository. Brown University Library. https://doi.org/10.26300/z7sp-2v96 Relations Collection: History of Capitalism Historical research on the economic past has exploded over the last several decades, with much recent scholarship traveling under the label of “History of Capitalism.” This amorphous subfield stretches from the era of early modern global integration to the neoliberal … ... Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University × Feedback Loading... Close