Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation 2020 Research Report Main navigation Home Engaging With Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Collaborations Partnerships Innovations Startups Commercialization Responding to Covid-19 GTRI Impact Research Next What Is Research Next? Framing the Research Landscape The World Beyond Research That Matters Work With Others The World Within Open Search Search Search Covid-19 and the Impact on Research Home A Letter From the EVPR Research at the Georgia Institute of Technology is about finding connections between diverse ideas and disciplines. Those links are where breakthrough discoveries are possible that will enable humanity to continue growing safer, healthier, and wealthier over time. There is no shortage of these ideas at Georgia Tech. Read the EVPR's Message Inside the Report Research at the Georgia Institute of Technology encourages technological innovation that happens at the intersection of many disciplines alongside extensive collaboration between researchers. Advances taking place across the enterprise lead to breakthrough discoveries every day. And this past year saw no shortage of technological advancements that fulfilled the Institute's promise to improve the human condition, even as a pandemic changed the very fabric of our lives. Covid-19 created unprecedented challenges across campus, but our resilient researchers worked together quickly to manufacture PPE, low-cost ventilators, and respirator parts. Georgia Tech scientists created a home-grown asymptomatic surveillance testing system that kept our campus, as well as the Georgia legislative community, safe. Student and faculty entrepreneurs also tackled Covid-19, with startups that focused on creating apps to help with social distancing and contact tracing. Even when faced with the seemingly insurmountable challenges of the pandemic, the research enterprise of Georgia Tech flourished. Dedicated researchers and faculty members kept labs safely operating, ensuring that the Institute's scientific and technological advances did not stop. Throughout this report, you will read about research on robotics, climate change, Alzheimer’s therapies, planetary exploration, and more. We hope you enjoy this look into the state of research at Georgia Tech, as we fulfill our commitment to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN