Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Clinical Trials Office Clinical Trials for Investigators Clinical Trials for Investigators Our mission is to facilitate quality clinical trial research - the effective and efficient evaluation of new pharmaceuticals and medical devices - by providing the Columbia University Irving Medical Center research community with comprehensive administrative services that help move trials quickly from initial proposal through contract execution. We assist with trials supported by federal and foundation grants and industry contracts, including investigator-initiated trials. Expand all Collapse all Study Submissions to CTO The CTO requires the following documents in order to properly negotiate the legal and budgetary items for a study: Protocol Draft informed consent form Draft study budget Draft study agreement Please submit a new study for CTO contract and budget review, negotiation and execution by emailing [email protected]. Cost Estimate Forms If your study involves utilizing the services of other departments with Columbia University Irving Medical Center, forms are required for proper assessment of the costs involved. Please follow this link to the cost estimate forms. NGS/CMS Determination Investigational device studies under an Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-issued Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) that begin with the letter “G”, as well as post-market approval studies of carotid stents or registries of carotid stents, must be submitted to the Medicare contractor, National Government Services (NGS) or Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), for a coverage decision prior to enrollment of subjects into the study. Submission to NGS/CMS cannot occur until the protocol has received Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval and the contract for the study has been signed by all parties. Prior to having the IRB approval documents and executed contract available, you can determine whether you need to submit a full application, or if you can use a short application. A full application includes documents that you can collect prior to having IRB approval, minimizing the time it will take for submission to NGS/CMS. Clinical Research Monitors and Access to NYP and CUIMC Contractors and non-academic visitors with official business with Columbia who require access to our facilities will be permitted access. Evidence of vaccination will need to be provided to their employer who will then attest to the vaccine status of these individuals. A separate proof of vaccination attestation will be utilized for persons in these categories that can be obtained by contacting [email protected] with the person’s name, company, and date of birth. In addition, persons in this category need to adhere to University guidelines in place. Please click here for the University's Visitor Guidelines for Spring 2022. In addition to the above, if visitors require access to NewYork-Presbyterian (NYP) facilities, they will also need to comply with NYP's requirements for external vendors. Effective September 1, 2021, NYP will require all vendors that come onsite to be vaccinated against COVID-19 or to obtain a valid exemption. Please click here for more information. In order to better fulfill its responsibility to protect confidentiality, security and safety, and promote infection control for its patients, employees and visitors, NYP has retained Symplr System (https://www.symplr.com/) to manage Health Care Industry Representative (HCIRs) credentialing for all of its facilities. NYP prefers that clinical research monitors or other sponsor representatives complete the HCIR credentialing process through Symplr. However, if the attestation process is permitted by the applicable clinical trial agreement (CTA), NYP will admit monitors who have completed and signed its medical attestation form. If permitted by the applicable CTA, please provide the attached HCIR Attestation Form to each monitor to complete and sign. The monitor will be responsible for obtaining approval of the form from the clinical department that he or she will be visiting at NYP and submitting it to NYP's HCIR Credentialing Administrator at [email protected]. To provide adequate processing time, it is preferred that the form be submitted at least three business days prior to the monitor’s scheduled appointment. Upon the monitor’s arrival, the monitor must present the signed attestation form at the appropriate Security desk in order to be permitted access to that campus. The monitor must carry the completed form with him or her whenever on-site at NYP. For further assistance or inquiries, please contact the NYP HCIR Credentialing Administrator at: [email protected]. Remote Monitoring For guidance on remote monitoring, please follow this link. Home Clinical Trials Office Clinical Trials for: Patients Investigators Sponsors Related Links Contract Negotiations Budget Negotiations Finance Regulatory Guidance RecruitMe - Join a Clinical Trial! Cost Estimate Forms Research Pharmacy Spanish Translation Center (STC) Regulatory Assistance Clinical Research Systems CTO Budget/Contract Review [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close