Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides Learn at SUL! Spring 2022 Workshops Search this Guide Search Learn at SUL!: Spring 2022 Workshops Guide to Syracuse University Libraries research workshop series. Spring 2022 Workshops Past WorkshopsToggle Dropdown Fall 2021 Workshops Workshop Recordings and Resources Welcome Welcome to SU Libraries' Learn at SUL! Workshop Series. Please take a look at our offerings and register to attend one or more. Saving, Organizing, and Citing Your Sources and Collaborating with Zotero Saving, Organizing, and Citing Your Sources and Collaborating with Zotero, Led by Winn Wasson Description: This introduction will provide an overview of Zotero, a free platform that allows students and researchers to save and annotate sources, collaborate with classmates and colleagues, generate citations and bibliographies in papers, and access references from anywhere. Students and researchers of all experience levels are encouraged to attend and ask questions. Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Faculty, Staff Date and Time: Tuesday, 2/15, 5:30-6:30pm, via zoom Wednesday, 3/23 5:30-6:30pm, via zoom Registration Link "Where Do I Start?" Researching for Beginners, Narrowing your Topic, Finding Resources, etc. "Where Do I Start?" Researching for Beginners, Narrowing your Topic, Finding Resources, etc., Led by Giovanna Colosi Description: You are new to researching and not sure where to begin? How do I know where to find sources? Where are reputable sources? Don't fret, come to this beginner's workshop to have all your questions answered! Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students Date and Time: Tuesday, 3/1, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM, via zoom Thursday 3/10, 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM, via zoom Registration Link Digital Humanities Workshop: Introduction to Text Mining with the HathiTrust Research Center Digital Humanities Workshop: Introduction to Text Mining with the HathiTrust Research Center, Led by Patrick Williams and Rachel Hogan Description: Patrick Williams (Humanities Librarian and Lead Librarian for Digital and Open Scholarship) and Rachel Hogan (Masters Student in Library and Information Science and Information Literacy Scholar) will present an Introduction to Text Mining with the HathiTrust Research Center, a hands-on workshop. Rachel and Patrick will present an overview of text mining & HathiTrust in general and will focus on the ways we can make use of the HathiTrust Research Center to undertake our own experiments. No programming experience is necessary. Participants will learn to create their own research collections and perform text analysis activities like creating token counts and tag clouds, extracting and visualizing named entities, and exploring topic modeling approaches. Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Faculty, Staff Date and Time: Thursday, April 7, 2:00-4:00pm, Bird Library, Room 046 Registration Link Technical Writing Technical Writing, Led by Juan Denzer and Abdulrahman Alzahrani Description: Introduce three main types of technical writing: traditional, end-user, and technical marketing content. Attendees will learn some of the key attributes that can be applied to all styles of technical writing. The session will also cover some useful writing tools along with some examples of technical writing. Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Staff Date and Time: Monday, 4/11, 1:00PM-2:00PM Bird Library Lower Level (046) Registration Link Can I use the Library after I graduate? Can I use the Library after I Graduate? Library Resources for SU Alumni, Led by John Stawarz Description: Congratulations on your upcoming graduation from Syracuse University! After you graduate, you will have access to many, but not all, of the library resources that you've used and enjoyed. This workshop will highlight the services and resources at SU Libraries that will be available to you as an alum, as well as guide you to free resources beyond SU Libraries that you could also access, such as ebooks, audiobooks, and journal articles. Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Students Almost Graduating Date and Time: 4/14, 1:00PM-2:00PM Link to the session recording The Misappropriation and Misrepresentation of Research The Misappropriation and Misrepresentation of Research: Strategies for Facing a Growing and Problematic Trend, Led by Winn Wasson Description: The good news is that your research got published. The bad news is that a group you have never heard of is now misappropriating or misrepresenting it to push an agenda that neither you nor your actual research conclusions support. This workshop provides strategies to prepare current and budding researchers to face this growing problem in how scholarship is portrayed outside of academia. Dinner will be provided. Intended Audience: Graduate Students Date and Time: April 18, 2022 5:00pm – 6:20pm EST Peter Graham Scholarly Commons, First Floor -Bird Library (Room 114) Please email grcolosi@syr.edu with any questions. Sponsored by the GSO and the Syracuse University Libraries Register here! ACT UP Graduate Roundtable Series: ACT UP Workshop: Incorporate a social justice perspective into your research processes Presented by: Kelly Delevan, Information Literacy Librarian Sponsored by: The GSO and SUL Dinner will be provided to participants Description: The ACT UP method was created in 2018 to provide students with a way to incorporate a social justice perspective into their research processes. It acknowledges that information systems and sources are often privileged towards dominant groups. This method enables users to critically examine sources' privilege and to shift the research paradigm to make room for other voices. "Research in its purest form is an act of resistance." - Dawn Stahura, Librarian and Creator of the ACT UP Method Participants will: Learn about the method and its application Put it into practice with sources Discover way to use the method in their own research and/or teaching with students Intended Audience: Graduate Students Date and Time: Wednesday, April 20, 2022, 5:15-6:45pm Peter Graham Scholarly Commons, First Floor -Bird Library (Room 114) Please email grcolosi@syr.edu with any questions. Register here! SCRC Working with Primary Sources and Special Collections Graduate Roundtable Series: SCRC Working with Primary Sources and Special Collections Have dinner on us and learn more about researching using our special collections and primary sources. Workshop will be a combination of hands-on and lecture format. The first half of this session will be in Special Collections’ Lemke classroom, then we will move to Room 114 and offer a lecture style presentation. Note food will be served. Attendance at this Special Collections workshop is limited to the first 17 graduate student registrants. Attendees should meet outside the elevators, 6th Floor Bird Library, Robert Ortwine Gallery Intended Audience: Graduate Students Date: Wednesday, February 23, 2021 Time: 5:00-8:00pm Location: Special Collections Research Center and Peter Graham Room, Bird Library 114 Registration Link The Misappropriation and Misrepresentation of Research: Strategies for Facing a Growing and Problematic Trend The Misappropriation and Misrepresentation of Research: Strategies for Facing a Growing and Problematic Trend, Led by Winn Wasson Description: The good news is that your research got published. The bad news is that a group you have never heard of is now misappropriating or misrepresenting it to push an agenda that neither you nor your actual research conclusions support. This workshop provides strategies to prepare current and budding researchers to face this growing problem in how scholarship is portrayed outside of academia. Intended Audience: Graduate Students, Faculty Date and Time: Thursday, 2/24, 5:30-6:30pm, via zoom Registration Link Library Collections Up Close: Meet SCOPUS Library Collections Up Close: Meet SCOPUS Description: Have dinner on us and learn more about researching with Scopus! Scopus is the largest, curated abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature. STEM and Social Science content. Come learn how to use all of its features with a Scopus expert. In this session, we will cover the training fundamentals of: Basic search strategies—Documents, Authors, and Affiliations Exploring the author profile Using search filters and advanced searching functions Journal source metrics Q&A session Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Faculty and Staff. Date and Time: Tuesday, March 1, 2022 5:00PM- 6:20 PM Location: Peter Graham Room, Bird Library 114 Registration Link How to conduct inclusive research How to Conduct Inclusive Searching: Incorporating Diverse Voices Into Your Research, Led by Brie Baumert Join Brie Baumert for a hands-on workshop focusing on privileging other voices in scholarly searches. While recognizing that academic libraries often work within systems that rely on European and western ways of thinking, organizing, and knowing, we find it essential to reconstruct searching strategies to equitably include underrepresented and underserved voices. Come join our discussion on how to conduct inclusive searching to better incorporate sources from diverse and marginalized voices. Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students Date and Time: Thursday, March 10, 12:00-1:00pm, via zoom Registration Link Publish or Perish Graduate Roundtable Series: Publish or Perish Description: Have dinner on us at this SU Libraries and SU Graduate Student Organization event, where panelists will discuss best practices for crafting a proposal and writing a book-length manuscript, or article from the perspectives of authors and editors. They also will share their experiences, challenges, and success stories, with a question-and-answer period to follow. Panelists from the Syracuse University College of Visual and Performing Arts and College of Arts & Sciences are: Professor Wayne Franits (Distinguished Professor -Art History, Art and Music Histories) Professor Isabel Prochner (Assistant Professor - Industrial and Interactive Design, College of Visual and Performing Arts) Professor Samuel Johnson (Assistant Professor - Art History, Art and Music Histories) Professor Sascha Scott (Associate Professor and Director of Art History Graduate Studies, Art and Music Histories) Intended Audience: Graduate Students Date and Time: March 23, 2022 5:00pm – 7:30pm EST Peter Graham Scholarly Commons, First Floor -Bird Library (Room 114) Please email grcolosi@syr.edu with any questions. Sponsored by the GSO, the Syracuse University Humanities Center, and the Syracuse University Libraries Register here! Preprints: The Who, What & Why Preprints: The Who, What & Why, Led by Juan Denzer and Alayna Vander Veer Description: Publishing your manuscript as a preprint is a great way to share, collaborate, grow, and get noticed. But what exactly is a preprint? How do you know if your research should be published as a preprint? Do you know the different types of copyright? Where should you publish? Do specific journals even publish preprints? Are there alternative repositories for lab protocols, data, code, etc.? This presentation will help answer these questions. The outcomes for attendees of the presentation will include: Learn about preprints, preprint framework Open Science Framework (OSF), OSF repositories for STEM. Learn about the benefits of preprints copyrights Learn about the benefits of preprints Intended Audience: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, Faculty, Staff Date and Time: Thursday, 4/7, 5:00PM-6:00PM Bird Library Lower Level (046) Registration Link Next: Past Workshops >> Last Updated: Apr 15, 2022 1:42 PM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/learnatSUL Print This Page Login to LibApps Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern