Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Funding Opportunities The Office of Research focus is on making key investments in the UC research enterprise that will impact our local, national and global partners to advance multi- and trans-disciplinary initiatives in existing and emerging communities of research excellence at UC. Office of Research Funding The Office of Research offers a variety of internal programs for funding UC researchers. View OpportunitesOOR opportunities External Partner Opportunities The Office of Research provides resources to help finding external partner opportunities View OpportunitesExternal opportunities SPIN: Funding Opportunity Search Engine The University of Cincinnati offers SPIN to provide a platform to search for Funding Opportunities. It features customizable queries for funding opportunities that match exactly what you are eligible to receive. To access this tool go to spin.infoedglobal.com while on a UC network. In order to create custom searches you must create an account using the instructions found here. You can see the SPIN Quick Start and the User Guide for more information. View OpportunitesSPIN opportunities Limited Submission Portal Limited submissions are funding opportunities in which the sponsor restricts the number of applications from an organization. This portal, using data from the SPIN website (see above), allows UC researchers to find these specific opportunities and express interest. To learn more, please review the Limited Submission Process View OpportunitesLimited Submission opportunities Early Career Funding Opportunities A list of funding opportunities from both Federal and non-Federal sponsor that are intended for early career investigators. View OpportunitesEarly Career opportunities Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021