Skip to main content Office of Research and Innovation Menu Close About About Dr. Mladen Vouk Our Team Research Committees ORI Fellows Stats and Rankings COVID-19 Research Continuity Dashboard Awards and Honors Research Initiatives Shared Core Research Facilities Interdisciplinary Initiatives Centers and Institutes Faculty Clusters ERA Project Institutional Training Grants Research Portal Partner With Us Centennial Campus Research Commercialization Contact Staff Directory News Archive Give Now About About About Dr. Mladen Vouk Our Team Research Committees ORI Fellows Stats and Rankings COVID-19 Research Continuity Dashboard Awards and Honors Research Initiatives Research Initiatives Shared Core Research Facilities Interdisciplinary Initiatives Centers and Institutes Faculty Clusters ERA Project Institutional Training Grants Research Portal Research Portal Partner With Us Partner With Us Centennial Campus Research Commercialization Contact Contact Staff Directory News News Archive Give Now Stop Video The Future of Phosphorus A new interdisciplinary center will advance ambitious goals to reduce phosphorus dependence — with the support of a five-year, $25 million grant. Read more about the center We’re at the Forefront of Discovery The Office of Research and Innovation supports the research, scholarship and creative activities of the NC State community by promoting collaborative research and an innovative environment. We’re a dynamic organization for a dynamic institution. As part of a preeminent research university, we encourage the curious and creative to think and do the extraordinary. From securing funding to commercializing research and from cultivating collaboration to educating on best practices, we provide support every step of the way. Learn more about us NC State Unveils Artificial Intelligence Institute The new NSF Institute will focus on AI and the future of education Read more about the institute News More News Too Long, Didn’t Read? Data Scientists Think AI Is up for the TLDR Challenge Data scientists at NC State plan to research how artificial intelligence can create brief, tailored daily reports. The Laboratory for Analytic Sciences is hosting its inaugural eight-week Summer Conference on Applied Data Science from June 13 to August 5. Assistant Vice Chancellor for Research Administration Rick Liston to Retire Later This Year Assistant Vice Chancellor Rick Liston is set to retire effective Nov. 30, 2022, marking more than 30 years of service with the university. Stem Cell-Derived Model Offers Insights on Gene Activity and Addiction The work also offers a blueprint for related research moving forward. National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State’s faculty were inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. NC State Partners with Sandia National Laboratories The Sandia University Partnership Network is a collaboration between the science and engineering research lab and 27 schools to shape the future of engineering for national security. Rob Smart Steps Down as CHHE Director Rob Smart has stepped down as director of the Center for Human Health and the Environment (CHHE), effective April 1. Jane Hoppin has been appointed interim director. 6th in Research Expenditures among public universities without a medical school Our success by the numbers Our Strategic Research Areas Designing Healthy and Resilient Societies NC State researchers find innovative ways to improve our well-being — whether they’re nourishing healthier animals and more nutritious crops or using textile technology to 3D-print fibers that better mimic those in the human body. Harnessing Data for Decision Making In an increasingly data-centric world, our researchers are improving the information we collect — and making sure it’s used for good. We use analytics to predict natural disasters and to advance promising fields like quantum computing. Enriching the Human Experience Our faculty collaborate across disciplines to study our past, our present and what it means to be human. The scientific discoveries we’re making today will become tomorrow’s fundamentals in fields like chemistry and physics. Creating Safe, Secure and Intelligent Systems We use innovative technology to make smarter machines, more efficient processes and safer communities. Driving Food, Water and Energy Solutions NC State research benefits the food we eat, the water we drink and the air we breathe. Delve into our priorities Results Magazine Stay up-to-date with the latest news about research innovation coming out of NC State. See what we’re doing Resources Research Portal Our Research Portal has everything you need for your project from start to finish. Find out how we can help About Our Office We’re invested in the success of our researchers every step of the way. Meet our team Partner With Us Our partners can connect with experts, new technology and state-of-the-art equipment. See what we offer Research Orientation Use the link below to view recordings of events, presentation slides shared by speakers and panelists and additional online resources provided during the 2022 New Faculty Research Orientation. View Resources Research Events Full Calendar Jun 08 Wednesday2:00 PM RSC-Exec Jun 08 Wednesday2:00 PM RSC-Exec Jun 15 Wednesday8:30 AM ROC Office of Research and Innovation Home NC State University Campus Box 7018 Raleigh, NC 27695-7018 Campus Map Intranet Research Development Office Research Administration and Compliance Research Education Accessibility Contact Proposal Development Office Office of Research Commercialization Web Questions or Comments? Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.