Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Research News Research News Biomaterial Improves Islet Transplants for Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes Islet cell transplants are a promising treatment that can cure difficult-to-treat type 1 diabetes. The cells, taken from a donor pancreas, provide patients with a sustainable and tightly controlled source of insulin. A major problem is getting the patient’s immune system to accept the influx of new donor cells; the patient’s protective T-cells… An Evolution of Astrobiology Buoyed by Georgia Tech’s interdisciplinary research on the origins of life and the possibility of it beyond Earth, three researchers from the Colleges of Engineering and Sciences are the lead organizers for astrobiology’s largest national conference. More than 1,000 abstracts will be discussed during AbSciCon 2022 May 15-20. The event takes… Georgia Tech Researchers Develop Wireless Implantable Vascular Monitoring System Vascular diseases are public enemy number one: the leading killers worldwide, accounting for nearly a third of all human deaths on the planet. Continuous monitoring of hemodynamics – blood flow through the vascular system – can improve treatments and patient outcomes. But deadly conditions like hypertension and atherosclerosis occur in long and… Shaping the Future of Light through Reconfigurable Metasurfaces Harnessing the power of “phase-change” materials, Georgia Tech researchers have demonstrated how reconfigurable metasurfaces — artificial materials with extraordinary optical properties — are crucial to the future of nanotechnology. The technological advancement of optical lenses has long been a significant marker of human scientific achievement… Institute Research Award Winners Named for 2022 On Friday, April 29, a group of outstanding members of the Georgia Tech research community were recognized at the annual Faculty and Staff Honors Luncheon. Every year, the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research offers seven awards recognizing the contributions and achievements of faculty and staff in mentoring and research. The… Thackery Brown Probes the ‘Black Box Problems’ in Cognitive Neuroscience Thackery Brown has always viewed the mysteries of the human mind as “black box problems.” The assistant professor in the School of Psychology specializes in cognitive neuroscience because it enables him “to get behind the curtain and understand why cognition succeeds and fails, and potentially study ways of improving it.” Cognition, the mental… New Framework for Cooperative Bots Mimics High-Functioning Human Teams, Decreases Risks from Unreliable Bots A Georgia Institute of Technology research group in the School of Interactive Computing has developed a robotics system that exceeds existing standards for collaborative bots that work independently to achieve a shared goal. The system intelligently increases the information shared among the bots and allows for improved cooperation. The aim is to… U.S. Senator Jon Ossoff Visits Georgia Tech Georgia U.S. Sen. Jon Ossoff visited Georgia Tech’s campus on Friday, April 29. His stop at Tech brought major stakeholders in Georgia together in a roundtable discussion to explore the potential for a hydrogen hub in the Southeast. The Biden administration regards clean hydrogen as a critical component in a plan to transition the American energy… New Study Shows Hybrid Learning Led to Significant Reduction in Covid-19 Spread As communities continue a shift toward normalcy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, researchers in Georgia Tech’s H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering have helped quantify the effectiveness of one of the most commonly-debated mitigation measures taken across the country. A new study published in BMC Public Health shows… Quantum, Classical Computing Combine to Tackle Tough Optimization Problems A research team led by the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) was recently selected for second-phase funding of a $9.2 million project aimed at demonstrating a hybrid computing system that will combine the advantages of classical computing with those of quantum computing to tackle some of the world’s most difficult optimization problems. Over… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN