Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation For Researchers For Industry Calendar Provost Research at Yale About Resources For Researchers For Industry Core Research Facilities Index of All Resources FAQs Policies Science Strategy Announcements COVID-19 Guidance Home > About Us About Research at Yale Yale University is widely recognized as one of the world’s leading research universities. Yale’s excellence in research and scholarship helps solve real-world problems and furthers its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. Through academic leadership and strategic partnerships around the world Yale works to advance research, create knowledge, and further innovation. Yale is renowned for both discovery and teaching. As a unified, innovative, and accessible student-centered research university, Yale’s labs and classrooms are turning out the next generation of world renowned innovators in many areas of research excellence, from biotechnology and environmental science to oncology, pharmaceuticals and quantum computing. The central university offices that work with the Office of the Provost to support Yale researchers include the following: Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Faculty Research Management Services Office of Cooperative Research Office of Research Compliance Human research Animal Research Conflict of Interest About the Vice Provost for Research The Vice Provost for Research works with the research team in the Office of the Provost to encourage and support Yale research, innovative interdisciplinary scholarship, and groundbreaking medical and scientific discoveries, which are expanding human knowledge and helping to improve the human condition. The Vice Provost for Research works in partnership with Yale administration, schools and colleges, and major centers and institutes to advance the research enterprise at Yale, and is part of the Office of the Provost. The Vice Provost for Research has broad responsibility and oversight for the review, development, and implementation of policies related to the organization and execution of academic research. A critical mission of the Vice Provost for Research and the research team in the Office of the Provost is to identify and ease practical impediments to interdisciplinary research, to ensure best practices for education, training, and guidance to promote the responsible conduct of research, and to ensure compliance in all areas of research administration across Yale University. Research Team in the Office of the Provost Michael Crair Vice Provost for Research 203-432-4447 michael.crair@yale.edu Pamela Caudill Senior Associate Provost for Research Administration 203-785-2518 pamela.caudill@yale.edu Lisa D’Angelo Associate Provost for Research lisa.bertetto.dangelo@yale.edu Chris Incarvito Associate Provost for Science Initiatives 203-737-6673 chris.incarvito@yale.edu Meg Kirkpatrick Associate Provost for Research meg.kirkpatrick@yale.edu Carolyn Van Gemert Administrative Associate 203-432-4448 carolyn.vangemert@yale.edu The Office of the Provost is located at 2 Whitney Avenue, Suite 400 New Haven, Connecticut Mailing address: Office of the Provost P.O. Box 208333 New Haven, CT 06520-8365 Tel. 203-432-4448 Contact the Office of the Provost All Resources For Researchers For Industry Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Office of the Provost | P.O. Box 208333, New Haven, CT 06520-8365 203-432-4448 | FAQ | Website Feedback Facebook Twitter YouTube