Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Research Compliance and Training Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Sponsored Projects Certificate Program A certificate program for research administrators. Please note: This program is *not* intended for Barnard and NYSPI employees who do not have a joint appointment with Columbia. Check out our Sponsored Projects Certificate Program FAQs. The Columbia University Certificate in Administration of Sponsored Projects is a certificate program for Columbia administrative staff involved in sponsored projects. The certificate program provides appropriately-trained individuals with a credential that attests to their knowledge and understanding of the policies and processes relating to the administration of sponsored projects at Columbia. The program presents training in four key areas of pre-award and post-award administration: Research compliance and regulatory requirements; Research roles and responsibilities at Columbia; Operational procedures and best practices for proposal development and financial management; and Resources available for compliance and operational support. Audience: Research Administrators, Department Administrators, Research Coordinators, Effort Coordinators, Grants Managers and other administrative staff involved with sponsored projects. Requirements: In order to receive the Certificate in Administration of Sponsored Projects, an individual must complete all of the following requirements: Expand all Collapse all Research Compliance Foundations Research Compliance Foundations is an 8-session (9-session for CUIMC) classroom course that provides an overview of sponsored project regulatory requirements and related Columbia roles, responsibilities, and policies. The course is taught by Columbia subject-matter experts from key research-related offices across the University. Sponsored Projects Essentials Sponsored Projects Essentials is a 5-session classroom course that covers pre-award and post-award operational processes and requirements. The course is taught by subject-matter experts from Sponsored Projects Administration and Sponsored Projects Finance. Note: certain sessions of the Foundations course are prerequisites for Essentials. Review of Online Case Studies As a supplement to the in-person courses, trainees are required to review a series of detailed case studies related to the Responsible Conduct of Research for research administrators. Note: this course should be completed following Research Compliance Foundations. The case studies are in Rascal TC0504. Completion of Rascal Foundations Test Individuals interested in earning the Certificate are required to demonstrate mastery of the material by successfully completing two quizzes in Rascal: one following Research Compliance Foundations and one following Sponsored Projects Essentials. The post-Foundations quiz is campus-specific and can be found here: CUIMC or Morningside/LDEO. Completion of Rascal Essentials Test Individuals interested in earning the Certificate are required to demonstrate mastery of the material by successfully completing two quizzes in Rascal: one following Research Compliance Foundations and one following Sponsored Projects Essentials. The post-Essentials quiz is campus-specific and can be found here: CUIMC or Morningside/LDEO. Timing: Effective January 2021, participants in the Sponsored Projects Certificate Program must complete all in-person and online requirements within 3 years of starting in the program in order to earn the Certificate. Anyone who has started the program before January 2021 will be grandfathered in to this policy: they will have 3 years starting from January 2021 to complete all Certificate requirements in order to earn the Certificate. Each classroom course is taught twice each year: Foundations in summer and winter, Essentials in spring and fall. The online cases and tests are always available. Please note that all Certificate requirements must be completed while you are employed at Columbia. Information: For additional information, please see the detailed descriptions of each Certificate requirement and the Sponsored Projects Certificate FAQs. If you have any remaining questions, please contact the Office of Research Compliance and Training at [email protected]. Sponsors: The Certificate program is sponsored by the Office of Research Compliance and Training, in collaboration with Sponsored Projects Administration and Sponsored Projects Finance. Commonly used research-related abbreviations and acronyms at Columbia Contact Shawna Benston, JD, MBE Associate Director for Research Compliance Education Office of Research Compliance and Training 212-851-2897 s[email protected] [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close