Skip to Main Content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Dartmouth Library Research Guides Dartmouth Library Guides Mathematics Getting Started Search this Guide Search Mathematics Resources for starting your research in Mathematics Getting Started Recommended Resources eBooks Theorem Provers Useful Tools More Article Sources More eBooks Teaching Support Scholarly Communication, Copyright, and Publishing Program Reference Managers LaTeX and BibTeX Librarian Mark Mounts Recommended Resources AMS Publications Books and Journals from the American Mathematical Society. EuDML: The European Digital Mathematics Library The purpose of the library is to provide a Digital Mathematics Library (DML) for the worldwide scientific community as a public service with the aim to help scientists locate the information that is distributed in various digital repositories, discover information related to their work in optimal way and be exhaustive and comprehensive in the field of mathematics. Mathematics at arXiv.org Mathematics at JSTOR Mathematics Subject Classification MathSciNet Searchable database of reviews, abstracts and bibliographic information for much of the mathematical sciences literature. MathSciNet tutorial webinar In this recorded webinar, Michael Jones provides an overview of MathSciNet. Project Euclid Project Euclid offers access to a growing platform of high-quality, peer-reviewed journals, monographs, and conference proceedings in the fields of theoretical and applied mathematics and statistics. SIAM Digital Library zbMATH zbMATH Open (formerly known as Zentralblatt MATH) is the world's most comprehensive and longest-running abstracting and reviewing service in pure and applied mathematics. It is edited by the European Mathematical Society (EMS), the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences and Humanities, and FIZ Karlsruhe. eBooks American Mathematical Society (AMS) Books Online Click on "My Holdings" to determine what Dartmouth has access to. AMS Open Math Notes A repository of freely downloadable mathematical works in progress hosted by the American Mathematical Society as a service to researchers, teachers and students. These draft works include course notes, textbooks, and research expositions in progress. They have not been published elsewhere, and, as works in progress, are subject to significant revision. Visitors are encouraged to download and use these materials as teaching and research aids, and to send constructive comments and suggestions to the authors. Lecture Notes in Mathematics SIAM eBooks Synthesis Lectures on Mathematics and Statistics The basic component of the library is a 50- to 100-page electronic book that synthesizes an important research or development topic, authored by a prominent contributor to the field. Theorem Provers Lean and its Mathematical Library The Lean mathematical library, mathlib, is a community-driven effort to build a unified library of mathematics formalized in the Lean proof assistant. The library also contains definitions useful for programming. Coq Coq provides interactive proof methods, decision and semi-decision algorithms, and a tactic language for letting the user define its own proof methods. Useful Tools Citation Linker Find out if the library has access to the full-text of a citation. Can use just the DOI or PMID. Fifteen awesome cross-platform math apps Handbook of Writing for the Mathematical Sciences, Third Edition Provides advice on all aspects of scientific writing, with a particular focus on writing mathematics. Libkey.io Find an article by DOI or PMID. LibKey Nomad Browser plugin Single click access to library content from publisher websites, PubMed, Wikipedia, and more; link to the full range of available content, including primary publishers, aggregators, open access alternatives; easily install in Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Vivaldi, or Brave. MathDeck Math-aware search interface. Mathematics Journals at Browzine Browse eJournals by topic or title. See latest issues. MIT Mathlets The MIT Mathlets constitute a suite of carefully designed and highly interactive Javascript applets designed to enhance selected university level STEM classes. Off-Campus Access (VPN) SearchOnMath Search for mathematical formulas and/or text. Some results require a subscription. more... less... Web Index: MathsGee MathOverflow NIST DLMF nLab Physics Forums PlanetMath StackExchange - Mathematics StackExchange - Physics Socratic Wikipedia (English version) Wolfram MathWorld Scientific Index: arXiv Next: More Article Sources >> Last Updated: Apr 26, 2022 12:23 PM URL: https://researchguides.dartmouth.edu/math Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Mathematics Tags: MATH, mathematics, physical sciences Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy