Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Innovation Innovation Research Innovation at Temple University Welcome to Temple's entry portal for Intellectual Property and Commercialization. Here you'll find a continuum of support available for Temple's commercialization and startup opportunities. 346 Total Patents $47.7M In FY20 Startup Funding 96 Inventions in FY20 Support for Temple's Commercialization and Startup Opportunities Support include access to early stage funding offered by Temple Ventures—Powered by Ben Franklin, micro grants to assist with Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grant proposals, and the additional resources outlined below. Follow Temple innovations on Twitter @TUInnovations AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGIES SUBMIT YOUR IDEA Temple Ventures | Powered by Ben Franklin Temple University and Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Southeastern Pennsylvania have devel-oped a joint initiative: Temple Ventures—Powered by Ben Franklin. The initiative is a $2 million startup accelerator designed to help create independent startup ventures in the greater Philadelphia area from Temple-based technologies. Temple and Ben Franklin are investing both capital and consulting resourc-es to develop great ideas into promising businesses. Temple Ventures features three main components: A joint Temple/Ben Franklin Seed Fund for prototype and startup funding New business launch resources to support the formation of the new Temple-created tech nology ventures Application Process Temple will identify potential technologies well-suited for seed capital and strategic development from its various departments and labs. Ben Franklin will utilize its capital, counsel, and connections to help develop commercialization strategies from those technologies and provide critical access to the re-gion’s broader technology investment community. Together, Temple and Ben Franklin will invest in those companies from the combined seed fund. $2 million has been allocated to the program. Submit Application Biostrategy Partners Temple University is a member of BioStrategy Partners to gain access to industry guided support for emerging technologies and validate that there is a market for the concept. BioStrategy Partners, an ac-ademic consortium that represents $1.65 billion dollars of research expenditures from its seven mem-bers, has industry partners that produce wish lists connected to small amount of funding to validate the technologies identified via the BioStrategy Partners process. The program is called Germinator and has been one of the primary drivers of company formation for Temple. It also connects the inventor and the commercialization office to bench scientists in the industry partner’s organization, leading to lasting connections between those organizations and the University. Learn More Science Center QED Program The University City Science Center’s QED Program is a multi-institutional proof-of-concept program that provides up to $200,000 in proof-of-concept funding and business development support for aca-demic researchers developing early-stage life science and healthcare IT technologies with high com-mercial potential. Industry representatives serve as mentors to guide projects to a commercially rele-vant milestone. Learn More CSL-Science Center Research Acceleration Initiative CSL Behring is a global biopharmaceutical company with its headquarters in King of Prussia, Penn-sylvania. CSL and the University City Science Center partnered to create the CSL-Science Center Research Acceleration Initiative (CSL-Sc RAI). Investigators from Temple University and other eligible members of the Science Center can apply for up to $400K in funding for projects in CSL’s therapeutic areas of interest. Learn More In This Section Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple