Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Offices Vice President for Research Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Office of Biosafety Department of Comparative Medicine Human Research Protection Office & IRBs Sponsored Projects Administration Institutional Biosafety Committee Research Compliance Office of Research Proposal Development Office of Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property Development Core Facilities Funding Opportunities External Funding Opportunities Corporations & Foundations Grant Opportunities Additional Resources Supporting Impactful Publications Program News & Events Research News Our Team Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... OFFICE OF RESEARCH Tulane Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards The Tulane University Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards are to be given annually to honor outstanding scholars and to recognize exceptional research achievement and impact on advancing knowledge in science, engineering, health, education, or creativity in the arts, the humanities and other academic fields of study. 2022 Tulane University Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards Nominations Process - REVISED Deadline We are proud to announce the opening of nominations for the 2022 Tulane University Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards. This is the second year for these awards and we hope you will nominate deserving faculty for these prestigious awards. REVISED Deadline: Nominations will be accepted until June 20, 2022. The Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards include the following: Research Hall of Fame Award Spirit of Tulane Award Innovation Award Galaxy Award Excellence in Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) Award Student/Trainee Research Mentoring Award Convergence Award Rising Star Award Funding Award (two awards for this category – one for STEM areas of research and one for non-STEM areas of research) – nominations are not accepted for these awards Citation Award – nominations are not accepted for this award Publication Award (two awards for this category – one for a book and one for a journal article) – nominations are not accepted for these awards The Description of Criteria for the 2022 nominations may be found here. Nominations may be sent to the Office of the Vice President for Research: vpresearch@tulane.edu Please ensure that the Nomination Form is completed. A checklist is provided on page two of the Nomination Form. The checklist has specific instructions for supporting documents that need to be submitted. Please follow the instructions. The Nomination Form and Checklist may be found here. Provide all supporting documents as requested. Documents must be submitted in a pdf format. Documents that do not meet the requirements will be returned to the submitter for correction and resubmission. All nominations will be referred to the appropriate school Associate Dean for Research (ADR or the school/unit designee) for review and approval before they are moved forward for further consideration. Therefore, if you have questions about nominating a faculty member, please consult your ADR. A list of ADRs can be found here. If you have questions about the nominations process or submitting documents, please contact Gail Louis, Melissa Bender or Tom Stevens. First Annual Awards Event - 2021 The Office of Research held the first Tulane University Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards on Thursday, Nov. 4, 2021 to honor outstanding Tulane scholars and recognize their exceptional research. The awards ceremony was held at the Higgins Hotel in downtown New Orleans with Meg Farris, WWL-TV medical and general assignment reporter, as the emcee. “We are a great academic research university, and our impact is felt here and across the globe." – PRESIDENT MICHAEL A. FITTS A full list of the award recipients is below: 2021 Research Hall of Fame Award This prestigious lifetime achievement award recognizes a nationally and internationally renowned scholar/investigator who has made substantial contributions to advancing knowledge over his/her/their academic career. ELIZABETH HILL BOONE, PhD, Professor Emerita, Newcomb Art Department, School of Liberal Arts JIANG HE, MD, PhD, Joseph S. Copes, MD Chair in Epidemiology, and Director, Tulane University Translational Science Institute, Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine ROBERT FORCE, LLM, Niels F. Johnsen Chair of Maritime Law, and Director Emeritus, Maritime Law Center, School of Law L. GABRIEL NAVAR, PhD, Professor and Chair, Department of Physiology, School of Medicine 2021 Spirit of Tulane Award This award recognizes outstanding achievement during the prior calendar year of a scholar/investigator whose work embodies Tulane’s motto: Non sibi, sed suis (Not for oneself, but for one’s own) while enhancing the research mission through education, creative expression, mentorship, and collaborative effort to advance knowledge. MONICA VACCARI, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Tulane National Primate Research Center and School of Medicine GREGORY BIX, MD, PhD, Professor and Vice Chair of Clinical and Translational Research, and Vada Odom Reynolds Chair in Stroke Research, and Director, Clinical Neuroscience Research Center, Department of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine MIA BAGNERIS, PhD, Associate Professor, Newcomb Art Department, and Director, Africana Studies Program, School of Liberal Arts 2021 Innovation Award This award recognizes a scholar/investigator who develops and explores novel ideas, approaches and insights through his/her/their interdisciplinary scholarship to address clinical, public health, or societal challenges. TANIKA KELLY, PhD, Professor and Vice Chair, and Director, Center for Public Health Genomics, Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine TONY HU, PhD, Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Biotechnology Innovation, and Director, Center of Cellular and Molecular Diagnosis, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Medicine, and the Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Science and Engineering NORA LUSTIG, PhD, Samuel Z. Stone Chair in Economics, Department of Economics, School of Liberal Arts 2021 Galaxy Award This award recognizes substantial achievement of a scholar/investigator who has a strong five-year history of funding and of enhancing Tulane’s research mission through scholarship, education, mentorship, and collaborative efforts. LISA MORICI, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine LYDIA BAZZANO, MD, PhD, Lynda B. and H. Leighton Steward Professorship in Nutrition Research, and Director, Tulane Center for Lifespan Epidemiology Research, Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine HANK ASHBAUGH, PhD, Professor, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, School of Science and Engineering DOUGLAS HARRIS, PhD, Professor and Schlieder Chair for Public Education Initiatives, Department of Economics, School of Liberal Arts 2021 Provost’s Award for Excellence in Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion This award recognizes a scholar for excellence in research that addresses societal inequalities and promotes social change. Some indicators of excellence include extramural support of related research and dissemination of findings through high-quality peer-reviewed publications and national or international presentations that address societal inequities and promote social change. Broader impacts of EDI refers to the extent to which research advances participation of historically marginalized groups, promotes understanding of EDI, addresses societal inequities, develops community engagement and partnerships, distributes findings widely to support broad research understanding, and/or innovates social change. ROBERT ST. MARTIN WESTLEY, JD, Louisiana Outside Counsel Health and Ethics Foundation Professor of Legal Ethics and Professional Responsibility, School of Law BRIGHAM WALKER, PhD, Assistant Professor, Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine ELISABETH MCMAHON, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of History, School of Liberal Arts THE ALBERT AND TINA SMALL CENTER FOR COLLABORATIVE DESIGN ANN YOACHIM, MPH, Professor of Practice, School of Architecture, and Director, Albert and Tina Small Center for Collaborative Design RASHIDAH WILLIAMS, MUrbDes, Former Assistant Director of Operations, Albert and Tina Small Center for Collaborative Design JOSE COTTO, MArch, Adjunct Lecturer, School of Architecture NICK JENISCH, MArch, Adjunct Lecturer, School of Architecture EMILIE TAYLOR WELTY, MArch, Favrot II Professor of Practice, School of Architecture 2021 Funding Awards These awards recognize a) the scholar/investigator in the STEM fields who has been awarded the largest combined dollar amount of funding for direct costs during the prior calendar year; and b) an artist/scholar/ investigator in the non-STEM fields who has been awarded the largest combined dollar amount of funding for direct costs during the prior calendar year. STEM CHAD ROY, PhD, Professor, Department of Microbiology, School of Medicine, and Director, Infectious Disease Aerobiology, Tulane National Primate Research Center NON-STEM MIA BAGNERIS, PhD, Associate Professor, Newcomb Art Department, and Director, Africana Studies Program, School of Liberal Arts ADRIAN ANAGNOST, PhD, Assistant Professor, and Jessie J. Poesch Professorship in Art, and Director of Graduate Studies, Newcomb Art Department, School of Liberal Arts 2021 Convergence Award This award recognizes a Tulane scholar or team of scholars who successfully collaborate across schools, units, and departments to surpass traditional academic disciplines and further the research mission. STACY DRURY, MD, PhD, Associate Professor, and the Remigio Gonzalez, MD Professor in Child Psychiatry, Vice Chair of Research, Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine JAY RAPPAPORT, PhD, Professor, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine, and Director and Chief Academic Officer, Tulane National Primate Research Center 2021 Student/Trainee Research Mentoring Award This award recognizes an exceptional research mentor. PATRICIA KISSINGER, PhD, Professor, Department of Epidemiology, and Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Development, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine JANA LIPMAN, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of History, School of Liberal Arts 2021 Rising Star Award This award recognizes the work of an assistant professor, within five years of appointment to Tulane, who demonstrates exceptional growth and impact in one or more research areas. COURTNEY BRYAN, DMA, Assistant Professor, Department of Music, School of Liberal Arts MICHAEL NAGUIB, PhD, Assistant Professor, and the Ken and Ruth Arnold Early Career Professor in Science and Engineering, Department of Physics and Engineering Physics, School of Science and Engineering MAEVE WALLACE, PhD, Assistant Professor, Department of Social, Behavioral, and Population Science, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine 2021 Citation Award This award recognizes the Tulane author of the peer-reviewed article with the highest number of citations during the prior calendar year. The recipient must be the corresponding author and Tulane must be the corresponding institution. ROBERT GARRY, PhD, Professor, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine, for “The proximal origin of SARS-CoV-2,” Nature, April 2020 2021 Publication Award This award recognizes Tulane scholars/investigators with the best journal article and the best book published in the prior calendar year. BOOK ANDREW HOROWITZ, PhD, Associate Professor, and Paul and Debra Gibbons Professor, Department of History, School of Liberal Arts, for Katrina: A History, 1915-2015, Harvard University Press, published 2020 JOURNAL ARTICLE J. QUINCY BROWN, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Science and Engineering, for “Pulmonary and cardiac pathology in African American patients with COVID-19: an autopsy series from New Orleans,” Lancet Respiratory Medicine, July 2020 View the Event Program Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University