Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Research 2030: UC's 10-yr Strategic Plan for Research The University of Cincinnati is the leading R1 urban university in our region with unrivaled talent solving problems that matter. We are rigorously pursuing diversity, equity & inclusion in research and actively transforming society through game-changing knowledge and disruptive discoveries. View Plan Latest News Read Story - The Sound of Industry, a trans-disciplinary research project at the University of Cincinnati The Sound of Industry, a trans-disciplinary research project at the University of Cincinnati Research team from across UC to study the impact of sound on workers. Read Story - IRiS Ignite is not your average conference IRiS Ignite is not your average conference Read Story - Meet the Digital Futures Dream Team Meet the Digital Futures Dream Team View All Facts and Figures Facts + Figures The Office of Research is accelerating research at University of Cincinnati and economic growth in our region by connecting industry, government, and community leaders with the University of Cincinnati thought leaders and innovators. Together, we can positively impact the lives, environment, and the economy in our region and beyond. Some of our key research strengths are highlighted below. Analytics Cyber Robotics Sensors Skin Science Adolescence Cancer Digital Humanities Infectious Diseases Medical Devices Neuroscience Smart Cities Sustainability Urban Futures Water 0 Active Awards $0M Active Award Funding 0 Active Externally Funded Researchers 0 FY21 Invention Disclosures View More Facts and Figures Events + Training Online Training Viral Vectors × Online Training Viral Vectors Target Audience: Open to the public and UC researchers who plan to work with viral vectors Research Office: Biosafety This training is required for individuals assigned to projects involving viral vectors. Before an IBC protocol can be approved, PIs and authorized personnel must complete all applicable training modules. Individuals outside UC must login through the "External Login" link and create a new UC account. Go to Training for Viral Vectors Online Training Conflicts of Interest in Research × Online Training Conflicts of Interest in Research Target Audience: All faculty and staff who conduct research at UC Research Office: Office for Ethics in Industry Engagement Faculty and staff who participate in funded research at the University of Cincinnati must complete training on promoting objectivity in research. This training is required every four years, at a minimum, due to federal regulations governing conflicts of interest in research. The course for meeting this requirement is available in the UC online training application CPD (Continuous Professional Development). If you are a UC employee and have not completed the Conflict of Interest Training, you will not be able to complete your Outside Activity Report. Go to Training for Conflicts of Interest in Research Online Training Export Compliance for Researchers × Online Training Export Compliance for Researchers Target Audience: All personnel conducting restricted work Research Office: Export Controls All personnel conducting restrictive work must complete Export Control training. The Export Compliance training is available online and is provided by the Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) at the University of Miami. The courses in CITI, “Export Compliance for Researchers part I and II”, are required for all personnel participating in restricted work. These courses are optional for all other University of Cincinnati faculty, staff and students, but are highly recommended. For a more detailed, in person training, please contact the Export Control Office at exportco@uc.edu. Go to Training for Export Compliance for Researchers Online Training FDA Regulated Research Activities Online Training × Online Training FDA Regulated Research Activities Online Training Target Audience: All principal investigators, co-principal investigators, and study coordinators engaged in FDA regulated research Research Office: Human Research Protection Program This online training includes 11 modules pertaining to FDA regulated research activities. These modules are specific to UC. FDA modules can be found under “Human Subjects Research Compliance Training”. All 11 modules must be completed. Further questions? Please visit our FDA FAQ page. Go to Training for FDA Regulated Research Activities Online Training Online Training BioSafety Cabinets Training × Online Training BioSafety Cabinets Training Target Audience: UC researchers who use biosafety cabinets as part of their research experiments Research Office: Biosafety This online training includes information on the purpose and proper use of biological safety cabinets. Approximately 15 minutes. Marcia Espinola, DVM, Director of Biosafety Office, Office of Research Integrity Go to Training for BioSafety Cabinets Training Online Training Healthcare Worker (Recertification) × Online Training Healthcare Worker (Recertification) Target Audience: Healthcare providers that will work with patients who are undergoing radiation therapy and require recertification. Research Office: Radiation Safety This online course is for the required for annual recertification. Please note, review and completion of the Radiation Safety Self-Learning Package is required prior to taking the online course. Go to Training for Healthcare Worker (Recertification) Online Training Shipping of Biohazardous Materials × Online Training Shipping of Biohazardous Materials Target Audience: UC researchers who plan to ship biohazard materials Research Office: Biosafety This online training provides information on the shipment of biohazard materials and helps the user identify if the materials within the package are regulated and what steps are required to comply. There are four training modules, each with a short quiz. Training certificates for this course are valid for 2 years. Go to Training for Shipping of Biohazardous Materials Online Training RAM Worker Retraining × Online Training RAM Worker Retraining Target Audience: Trained RAM workers needing annual retraining Research Office: Radiation Safety This is a refresher course that is required annually for all RAM workers and can be completed online or in person. Available to be accessed online through the Center for Continuous Development Contact the RSOf directly if you would like to attend a live retraining course. Radiation Safety Office, 513-558-4110 Go to Training for RAM Worker Retraining Online Training Ancillary Worker Awareness × Online Training Ancillary Worker Awareness Target Audience: Anyone with working duties that require entrance into a radiation area or a room where radiation generating equipment (RGE) is in operation. Research Office: Radiation Safety This video provides basic information regarding hazards, warnings, and signage for those individuals required to have limited/minimal exposure to sources of ionizing radiation. It will also provide contact information should for concerns related to Radioactive Materials (RAM) or Radiation Generating Equipment (RGE) Go to Training for Ancillary Worker Awareness View All events Funding Opportunities Office of Research Funding External Funding Limited Submission Back to of the page University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021