Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Clinical Trials Office Clinical Trials Office Directory Clinical Trials Office Directory Administration Contracts Budgets Finance Regulatory Affairs and Clinical Development Applications Spanish Translation Research Pharmacy Zunilda C. Ramirez Yvette Acevedo Roles and Responsibilities Yvette is the Senior Coordinator for Radiation Safety Committees supporting and managing the committees required by regulation to oversee the safe use of radiation at Columbia University, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, the New York State Psychiatric Institute, and affiliated facilities. These include the Morningside Radiation Safety Committee, the Joint Radiation Safety Committee, the Radioactive Drug Research Committee, and a number of associated subcommittees. She also manages the system of submission, review, and approval of research protocols involving radiation and human subjects, and maintains the records of personnel approved by the Joint Radiation Safety Committee to serve as clinical Authorized Users. Yolanda Ruiz Yolanda Ruiz is a Financial Analyst at the Clinical Trials Office. Yolanda provides investigators and their research teams financial accounts receivable services, including ARC account creation and changes, invoicing and reconciliation of industry-sponsored clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center. Yaritza Collazo Senior Manager, IRB 5 Yanira Tavares Xiomara Perez-Betances Xiomara Ogando Windsor M Franco Windsor Franco is a Chemical Barcoder II stationed at Pupin 200. Windsor is responsible for bar-coding chemicals upon delivery and receipt and maintaining accurate chemical inventories through reconciliation and empty bottle handling. William J Berger Will Copeland Whitney D. Meeks Wendy L. Lora Wendy Lora is a Pharmacy Technician. She signs out and delivers study medication and conducts site qualification visits and interim monitoring visits in addition to managing drug inventory and pharmacy supplies ordering. Victoria Hamilton Victoria Hamilton created and directs the Office of Research Initiatives and Development at Columbia University, reporting to the Executive Vice President for Research. This Office works across disciplines, schools, and campuses to foster interdisciplinary research collaboration, particularly among scientists, engineers, and medical researchers. The Office supports efforts to secure external funding for such collaborations, and administers a seed fund for very early-stage research that falls outside the traditional boundaries. The Office also focuses on helping plan and build research infrastructure, such as the Shared Research Computing Facility and the Columbia Nano Initiative facilities. Prior to joining Columbia in January 2007, Ms. Hamilton was a principal of The Washington Advisory Group, consulting with both industry and non-profits on the intersection of scientific and technical research and commerce (1999 to 2006). Previously, she was Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of General American Investors, a NYSE-listed closed end investment fund (1992-1998), and for ten years a senior member in SRK Management Company, a private venture capital firm (1982-1992). Ms. Hamilton holds a BA and an MBA from Harvard University. Veronica Ifill Therese Horn Tasha I Smith Tanusha Satavalli Tanja Selena Holgate Tanja Holgate, CPhT, is a Research Pharmacy Coordinator. She signs out and delivers study medication and conducts site qualification visits and interim monitoring visits in addition to managing drug inventory and pharmacy supplies ordering. Talia Jimenez Susan Richards Role and Responsibilities Susan is the Finance Manager for the Executive Vice President of Research overseeing all Central Finances and Reporting relating to the 9 EVPR units. Biography As a 10 year veteran of Columbia University, Susan served as Contract control specialist in the Department of Sponsored Projects Administration (formerly known as OPG) where she was responsible for the Data entry of awarded information into the grants management system for account creation and account Modifications. She was also responsible for post data entry, review and reconciliation of the information and attributes fed from the grants management system to the University financial system to ensure both systems were synchronized. Susan also served as the Financial Assistant in the Department of Dermatology, as well as the Financial Coordinator for Columbia’s Biomedical Informatics Department. In both capacities, she was responsible for review of financial activities such as reconciling grant and departmental accounts against the university financial systems, liaison between the IRB, IACUC and SPA for departmental requests and completion of such requests. In addition to but not limited to maintenance/execution of subcontract and consulting agreements and assist with the submission of grant proposals. Mrs. Richards earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance and Business Management from Delaware State University in Dover, DE. A native of Brooklyn, NY, Susan likes to learn new concepts to excel at her position at Columbia University, read, and spend time with family. Sujan De Silva Stephanie Stanford Stephanie Peña Stephanie F. Scott Stephanie is responsible for educating and updating the Columbia University and Columbia University Irving Medical Center communities on policies and procedures impacting the day to day management of proposals and awards. She has over twenty years' experience in all aspects of pre-award sponsored projects administration, and has led many special projects involving the implementation and change management of major policies and systems. Stephanie has conducted many training initiatives on complex topics such as, but not limited to, the Uniform Guidance, federal public access policies, and the Fly America Act. She is currently the co-chair of the Federal Demonstration Partnership (FDP) Communications Committee, and a member of their Executive Committee. Previously she was the co-chair of the FDP Subawards Subcommittee. She holds a Master's Degree in Epidemiology, is a Certified Research Administrator (CRA), and is a member of member of the National Council of University Research Administrators (NCURA). Stacy Lynn Siegel Stacy Lynn Siegel, JD, MBA, is a Senior Contract Specialist with the Clinical Trials Office. She negotiates and finalizes an array of research related agreements on behalf of the research community at P&S. Stacy also advises faculty and staff on applicable laws and institutional policies governing human subjects research. Sonia Torres Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to EH&S’s Director, Sonia interfaces with the Department's health and safety professionals to proactively organize and schedule services, processes, interactions and compliance-based activities. Sonia provides client-focused support for the Research Safety Operations, Program Management and Occupational Safety Teams, and is a key part of all efforts to achieve regulatory compliance and a safe and healthy workplace for the Columbia University research community. Her personal interests include theater, music, and travel. Sofia Ioannidou Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to, and under the general direction of, the Associate Radiation Safety Officer/Manager, Clinical Radiation Safety Program, Sofia is responsible for health physics functions and duties relating to the implementation of radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety departmental mission. Sofia is responsible for providing advanced consultation and technical direction to Radiation Safety, Environmental Health and Safety, and Environmental Health and Safety customers, with respect to the safe use of radioactive materials and radiation-producing devices. Sofia provides radiological and related support services to a variety of local and off-site Columbia University, New York Presbyterian Hospital and New York State Psychiatric Institute facilities. Shirin Rahmati Shirin Rahmati, PharmD is a Research Pharmacist. She provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Shiney Kunjukutty Shiny Kunjukutty is a Senior Budget Analyst in the Clinical Trials Office. She is responsible for determining financial feasibility and negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with University policies and procedures. Shawna Benston Roles and Responsibilities Shawna Benston is the Associate Director for Research Compliance Education. Her work focuses on creating educational programs on research compliance and research ethics for the Columbia research community, including faculty and staff, students, and post-doctoral research fellows. Biography Before joining the Office of Research Compliance and Training, Ms. Benston was a Postdoctoral Fellow at Columbia University's Center for Excellence in ELSI Research, where she focused on the ethical and policy implications of gene-editing technologies. She has a J.D. from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, a Masters of Bioethics from the University of Pennsylvania, a Masters in Classics from the University of St Andrews, and a B.A. from Yale University. Her scholarship has utilized case law and bioethical reasoning to explore dilemmas of patient agency at the beginning and end of life. She has taught courses on narrative medicine, bioethics mediation, and end-of-life ethics at the Yale Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics Summer Institute. Shannel Lewis Seth L. Mayersohn Seretha F. Houston Seretha Houston is a Senior Accountant at the Clinical Trials Office. Seretha provides allocation services for industry-sponsored clinical trial projects, which includes lockbox reconciliation and closeout transfers at Columbia University Medical Center. Seda Galstian Sarah Brandoff Sarah Aloe Roles and Responsibilities As the Safety Advisor, Sarah proactively builds relationships with University and University-affiliate research personnel to facilitate the delivery of high-quality safety services and guidance across a broad range of disciplines throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and multiple campuses. Sarah maintains a client-focused approach and is accountable for assessing research safety procedures and practices and developing creative, sustainable and compliant solutions that meet the operational needs of research personnel and are consistent with University standards and best practices. Through collaborations with EH&S colleagues and various University stakeholders and affiliates, Sarah ensures effective and efficient implementation and management of biological, chemical and radiation safety program elements in alignment with the Research Safety Program Strategic Plan. Sara Hastings Sandra Keyser, PhD, ASP Roles and Responsibilities As the Associate Manager for Research Safety Programs, Sandra provides leadership and supervision for EH&S’s Research Safety Operations Team by promoting and supporting a comprehensive laboratory safety, compliance and service program throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and affiliate institutions. Sandra supports and advances a positive, proactive laboratory safety program, working as a leader and member of the Research Safety Team and collaborating with EH&S colleagues and program leaders to coordinate and consistently deliver EH&S’s essential services and safety programs to the University’s research community related to biological, chemical, physical and radioactive materials in laboratories. Sandra develops, maintains and promotes policies, procedures and programs for laboratory safety, and ensures the campuses are compliant with pertinent local, state and federal laboratory health and safety codes, standards and regulations and University policies and best practices. Sandra is accountable for the effective utilization of EH&S’s technology-based systems by the Research Safety Operations Team and establishes ongoing quality assurance/improvement strategies for collected data. Sandra has direct supervisory responsibility for several Research Safety Operations Team personnel across multiple campuses and must maintain flexibility in working from one or more EH&S office locations each day. Biography Sandra joined Columbia EH&S in January 2020 and worked as a Senior Safety Advisor before being promoted Associate Manager for Research Safety in 2021. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry from the College of New Jersey and a Doctorate of Philosophy in Chemistry from the University of Pittsburgh. She taught undergraduate chemistry at Drew University for a number of years before joining Columbia University. She earned her Associate Safety Professional accreditation through the Board of Certified Safety Professionals in 2022. In her free time, she is an active member of the American Chemical Society: North Jersey ACS Councilor and Executive Board member, ACS Career Counselor, 2022 General Chemistry Conceptual Exam Committee member, Steering Committee member for NJACS ChemExpo, and an associate member for the ACS Committee on Chemical Safety. She also serves as Advisor for the Fair for Emerging Researchers. She also enjoys spending time with her family hiking and traveling. Samuel Dindayal, BS, ARRT (N)(CT), NMTCB Roles and Responsibilities Health Physicist, Samuel, is responsible for health physics functions and duties relating to the implementation of radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) departmental mission. He has provided radiological and related support services to research laboratories on a variety of Columbia University campuses. Samira Joussef-Pina, MSc, PhD Roles and Responsibilities As the Biological Safety Officer, Samira promotes and supports the comprehensive biological safety program at all five Columbia University campuses. She provides expert guidance on technical and regulatory matters, including specialized experimental procedures involving BSL-3 materials and containment, NIH Guidelines governing the use of rDNA, including Human Gene Transfer, and shipment and importation of infectious agents or other potentially infectious materials. Ruth Gutierrez Ruth Gutierrez is the Research Applications Analyst at the Clinical Trials Office. Ruth provides application support to the Columbia University Irving Medical Center community. She is also involved in the application configuration, data management, and quality assurance of IBM CTMS. Rosanna Fajar Rosa E. Rivera Roger Lefort Roles and Responsibilities Roger is the Assistant Director for Research Integrity and Compliance. His work focuses on promoting research and data integrity through various workshops and trainings, research group consultations and development of resources to aid in the conduct of research. He also works on matters concerning conflict-of-interest and research misconduct. Biography Before joining the Office of Research Compliance and Training, Roger was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Pathology and Cell Biology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center for 6 years, where his research focused on the molecular mechanism of neurodegeneration and synaptic dysfunction in neurological diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and Angelman syndrome. Dr. Lefort received his PhD in Molecular Medicine from Columbia University Irving Medical Center in 2011. He also has a strong interest in Data Science and Data Visualization and is an avid python programmer. Robert Giordano, MPH Roles and Responsibilities As Safety Advisor, Robert works in collaboration with EH&S’ full team of health and safety professionals to proactively build relationships with University and University-affiliate research personnel to facilitate the delivery of high-quality safety services and guidance. He maintains a client-focused approach and promotes the safety of the University research community by assessing research procedures and practices, and developing creative, sustainable and compliant solutions that meet the operational needs of research personnel. Rivka Shoulson Ria K. Miranda Regina Ines Calvo Gonzales Prada Roles and Responsibilities As Radiation Safety Program Coordinator Regina is responsible for the smooth day-to-day operation of the Radiation Safety Office and provides administrative support to all aspects of the Radiation Safety Programs. She administers the radiation dosimetry program across all campuses of Columbia University, Barnard College, the New York State Psychiatric Institute, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, and ColumbiaDoctors faculty practices. She assists with scheduling, recordkeeping, correspondence, and general office operation. She independently develops projects and programs to improve the overall effectiveness of the Radiation Safety Programs. Ranique Williams Rahel Blessy James Rahel James is a Senior Budget Analyst with the Clinical Trials Office. She is responsible for determining financial feasibility and negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with University policies and procedures. Qiana Quiles-Placencia Phylicia C Obame Roles and Responsibilities As the Manager of EH&S Data Systems, Phylicia is responsible for administrative management of the department’s internal and external technology applications, ensuring that the highest level of service is provided to the Columbia University research community. Phylicia leads and facilitates regularly scheduled collaborations with EH&S leadership, management and staff to produce, support and enhance technology solutions that address the operational needs and requirements of the department. Phylicia excels at working in a team environment supporting and troubleshooting technology applications, and develops relationships with internal staff and external clients and vendors to ensure effective/efficient implementation of existing and planned technology-based environmental health and safety programs. Peter Caracappa, PhD, PE, CHP Roles and Responsibilities The Chief Radiation Safety Officer/Executive Director provides innovative and strategic leadership and directs, leads, promotes and supports a comprehensive radiation safety program throughout Columbia University (CU) and affiliated institutions including the Cyclotron and Radiochemistry Lab, and the New York Presbyterian (NYP) facilities (NYP-Columbia University Irving Medical Center, NYP-Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital, NYP-Allen Hospital, NYP-Lawrence Hospital) (collectively, “Campuses”). The Chief collaborates with EH&S program directors and managers to promote best management practices on all Campuses and works directly with the Chairs of the Radiation Safety Committees to ensure that all activities are in compliance with pertinent local, state and federal regulations and applicable national and international standards of practice. The Chief is responsible for recommending, developing, maintaining and promoting appropriate policies, procedures and programs and maintaining awareness of changes in the regulatory environment including proposed changes to laws, regulations and standards. He oversees the radiation safety training program for faculty, staff, and students who work with radioactive materials or radiation-producing equipment. The Chief applies best practices, including relevant controls (engineering/procedural/administrative) to maintain radiation exposures as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). Biography Dr. Caracappa currently holds an appointment as an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics, Medical Physics Program at Columbia. He is a licensed Medical Health Physicist, a licensed Professional Engineer, and has been certified in the comprehensive practice of health physics by the American Board of Health Physics since 2005. Dr. Caracappa has been a practicing health physicist for nearly 20 years, with more than a dozen of those as the radiation safety officer for broad and diverse programs. Prior to joining Columbia, Dr. Caracappa served as the Radiation Safety Officer at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, with responsibility for oversight of at a 100 MeV electron accelerator facility and a low-power research reactor, in addition to a comprehensive research program. He completed his Ph.D. at Rensselaer in 2006, and also became a member of the faculty in Nuclear Engineering, serving as the primary instructor for courses in Nuclear Engineering and Health Physics. In 2014, he was named the Director of the Reactor Critical Facility, a low-power research and training reactor at RPI. He also remained engaged in diverse research activities, including computational dosimetry for medical physics applications and development of methods for nuclear reactor benchmark experiments. He is responsible for significant contributions to the development of tools to improve the quantification, tracking, and management of radiation dose from Computed Tomography examination, one of the largest contributors to medical radiation exposure. He has authored or co-authored over 25 peer-reviewed papers or proceedings and 100 conference presentation abstracts on a diverse set of topics. Following the nuclear accident at Fukushima Dai-ichi in March 2011, Dr. Caracappa appeared regularly in media coverage regarding the extent and impact of the radiological releases from the plant. He was sought after because he demonstrated the ability to communicate the information available and its implications in a fair, level-headed, and understandable manner. He appeared in the coverage of media outlets including The Wall Street Journal, AP, Reuters, NPR’s Morning Edition, Scientific American, Popular Mechanics, and PBS NewsHour. He was recognized by the American Nuclear Society for his contributions to the response to the Fukushima Accident. In 2013 he was awarded the Elda E. Anderson Award from the Health Physics Society for contributions to the health physics as a young professional. Paul Pires Paul Pires is a Chemical Barcoder I stationed at ChemStores. Paul is responsible for bar-coding chemicals upon delivery and receipt and maintaining accurate chemical inventories through reconciliation and empty bottle handling. Patricia Magdalena Infante De Rozon Patricia is the Lead Research Systems Analyst in the Clinical Trials Office. She assists in overseeing the configuration, data management and quality assurance for all research systems in the CTO. Pamela S Shively Roles and Responsibilities As the Training Coordinator, Pam coordinates and maintains a safety education and training program that enables EH&S and other Columbia University stakeholders to understand and maintain a safe and healthy environment, and ensure compliance with Columbia University and regulatory requirements. Pam is responsible to maintain a support structure for departmental program safety education trainings. Pam conducts assessments, evaluations, and utilize state-of-the-art instructional technology to improve the delivery and content of training in classroom and computer-based trainings (RASCAL and LION). Pam implements an evaluation program drawing on organizational principles to improve training quality and efficiency. In addition to her training program duties, she is the main contact for the Certificate of Fitness (C-14) Certification Program at Columbia University. Biography Before joining Columbia University, Pam had a long career in education, in which she taught math, science, and physical education. Pam served several professional associations in various volunteer leadership roles and volunteered as a support partner to special needs students. In addition, Pam also served as a coach and sports official. Education Manchester College, Bachelor of Science, 1984 Indiana Wesleyan University, Continuing Education Indiana University, Continuing Education Ball State University, Continuing Education Valparaiso University, Continuing Education Interests Collecting Snoopy memorabilia, reading, and pets. Pajareewan (Tippy) Lucarelli Tippy Lucarelli, JD, is the Associate Director of Contract Negotiations with the Clinical Trials Office. She manages the workflow of the Senior Contract Specialists and Clinical Trial Administrator, and oversees the contract negotiation and execution process within the Clinical Trials Office. Oskar Neyra Oriel Averion Oriel Averion, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. He provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Nicholas J. Zanelli Nicholas J. Zanelli, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. He provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Naomi Schrag Naomi Schrag is the Vice President for Research Compliance, Training, and Policy in the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, and the University's Research Integrity Officer (RIO). She oversees work on issues such as research misconduct, conflict-of-interest and international research compliance, and collaborates closely with other offices across the University to develop integrated approaches to compliance and training. Myniare Austin Myniare Austin is the Administrative Manager at the Clinical Trials Office. She provides executive level support for the Associate Vice President and the Senior Director, and manages all administrative duties for the office. Michelle Perez Michelle Avallone Roles and Responsibilities Michelle Avallone is the Director of Export Controls. Her work focuses on matters relating to U.S. export controls and economic sanctions regulations, anti-corruption regulations as well as other international research issues. Biography Before joining Columbia in 2013, Ms. Avallone was a government contracts attorney at Crowell & Moring LLP. She later founded a solo practice focusing on government contracts and export controls for tech startups. Ms. Avallone graduated from Columbia Law School in 2006. Prior to law school, she received an M.A. in Anthropology from Columbia University and a B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley. Ms. Avallone has been a member of the U.S. State Department’s Defense Trade Advisory Group (DTAG) since 2014. Michael A. Klein Roles and Responsibilities Michael Klein is the Director of Research Compliance. His work focuses on research compliance issues such as conflict-of-interest and research misconduct. Biography Before joining Columbia in July 2008, Mr. Klein served for three years as senior attorney with the New York State Task Force on Life and the Law, the state’s interdisciplinary bioethics commission. He also has held legal positions with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett. Mr. Klein graduated from Columbia Law School in 1999. Before entering law school, he received an M.A. in science writing from the Johns Hopkins University. Meredith Elliott Melissa Tamimi Melissa Tamimi Melisa Dionicio Melisa Dionicio is a Budget Analyst with the Clinical Trials Office. She is responsible for determining financial feasibility and negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with University policies and procedures. Melanie Solá Melanie Solá is the Associate Director of Finance in the Clinical Trials Office. Melanie provides investigators and their research teams financial accounts receivable services, including ARC account creation and changes, invoicing and reconciliation of industry-sponsored clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center. She is also responsible for the training of colleagues and assisting in the development of account receivable strategies. Megha G. Thomas Megha G. Thomas, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. She provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Matthew Neky Matthew Gillman Matthew Gillman joins the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research as an EVPR Fellow in Research Management. Reporting to the Executive Director of Research Initiatives and Development, he will support team members in such areas as program analysis, proposal development, and internal communications. A recent graduate of the university, he was previously an instructor in the Core Curriculum, cataloger and guest curator at the Rare Book & Manuscript Library, and dissertation fellow at the Sakıp Sabancı Center for Turkish Studies. Matthew holds a PhD in art history and archaeology from Columbia University, MA in Middle Eastern Studies from the University of Chicago, and BA from the University of Washington. Matt Brennan Mathew A Kaduvettoor Mathew Kaduvettoor is a Financial Analyst at the Clinical Trials Office. Mathew provides investigators and their research teams financial accounts receivable services, including ARC account creation and changes, invoicing and reconciliation of industry-sponsored clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center. Maryanne McGinn Mary Jo Shepherd Having joined Columbia University on August 1, 2011, Dr. Mary Jo Shepherd is currently Executive Director of the Office of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Dr. Shepherd has responsibility for assuring the University’s compliance with all laws, regulations and guidelines pertaining to the care and use of laboratory animals. Dr. Shepherd received her B.S. and D.V.M. from the Ohio State University and practiced small animal medicine for almost 20 years. She entered the laboratory animal field in 1988 and was a member of 5 IACUCs for a number of years while working at a privately owned medical device testing laboratory. She has been employed at two pharmaceutical companies and another large academic institution. Mary Jo was active in Public Responsibility in Medicine & Research (PRIM&R) by serving on the IACUC conference Planning Committee and by serving as faculty for workshops and panels for many years. She also Chaired the founding task force for what was known as the Certified Professional IACUC Administrator (CPIA) credential. She has been active in the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) at the local and national levels and most recently served on AALAS’s Editorial Review Board. She was actively involved in the planning of the New Jersey Association for Biomedical Research’s (NJABR) annual IACUC seminar for over ten years. Dr. Shepherd was also on the Americans for Medical Progress Board of Directors for 5 years. Marta I. Scotto Marta Scotto, RPh, is a Research Pharmacist. She provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Marlon Lowe Maritza Pardave-Martinez Maritza Pardave-Martinez is the Clinical Trials Administrator with the Clinical Trials Office. Maritza provides document services to the Columbia University Medical community by managing the contract routing process and maintaining the contract repository. Maribel Respo Maribel Carmona Maria E. Martinez-Torres Mandy Kain Magdalena Andrzejewska Roles and Responsibilities As the Safety Advisor, Magdalena proactively builds relationships with University and University-affiliate research personnel to facilitate the delivery of high-quality safety services and guidance across a broad range of disciplines throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and multiple campuses. Magdalena maintains a client-focused approach and is accountable for assessing research safety procedures and practices and developing creative, sustainable and compliant solutions that meet the operational needs of research personnel and are consistent with University standards and best practices. Through collaborations with EH&S colleagues and various University stakeholders and affiliates, Magdalena ensures effective and efficient implementation and management of biological, chemical and radiation safety program elements in alignment with the Research Safety Program Strategic Plan. Biography Magda received her Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in chemistry from The City College of New York. During her academic years she actively worked as a research assistant and gained teaching experience by working as an adjunct lecturer for the chemistry laboratory courses. Prior to joining EH&S at Columbia she worked for NYSDEC where she earned experience in environmental field. Magaly C. Garcia Magaly Garcia, MD, is the Director of the Spanish Translation Center. She coordinates all aspects of the translation and review of documents at Columbia University and outside institutions to be used by Hispanic participants in research. Madhavi Nambiar Lynn Miyazaki Luis R. Garcia Luis Garcia is a Senior Contract Specialist with the Clinical Trials Office. He negotiates and finalizes an array of research related agreements on behalf of the research community at P&S. Luis also advises faculty and staff on applicable laws and institutional policies governing human subjects research. In addition, Luis manages the confidentiality agreement process. Luis Irizarry Luis Irizarry is the Lead Administrative Coordinator of the Research Pharmacy. He is responsible for training of Coordinators, managing the cost estimate process, Quality Assurance and inventory control. Lucy Xi Liu Lucy Liu, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. She provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Lucas Desouza Lourdes Fernandez Lourdes Fernandez is the Director of Research Budgets and Billing Review in the Clinical Trials Office. She is responsible for the management and oversight of all industry sponsored clinical projects to ensure accuracy and financial feasibility while adhering to the University's policies and procedures. She also oversees central monitoring of Research Billing Review (RBR) for charges in Epic. Lloyd M. Abraham Lloyd Abraham is a Budget Analyst with the Clinical Trials Office. He is responsible for determining financial feasibility and negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with University policies and procedures. Lillian Vasquez Liana Tascau Roles and Responsibilities Liana Tascau is a Compliance Specialist in the Office of Research Compliance and Training, helping to manage the administration of the University’s policies and processes concerning conflict of interest in research. Biography Dr. Tascau received an M.D. from the University of Bucharest, Romania, and has a Ph.D. in Neuroscience at Rutgers, from The State University of New Jersey. After graduation, Dr. Tascau worked as a postdoctoral scientist, laboratory technician, and research worker at Columbia University. Her research was mostly focused on neuroscience, pediatric cancer, bone biology, and mechanisms of development for atherosclerosis. Dr. Tascau also received a Master of Arts from Columbia University in Clinical Bioinformatics. Leosvaldo Vasquez Leonida Vasquez Laurence Butaud-Rebbaa Lauren M Kelly, CHMM, CDGP Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to, and under the supervision of, the Executive Director of Environmental Health & Safety, the Project Manager – Safety & Regulatory Affairs collaborates with the Hazardous Materials, Safety and Radiation Safety Program personnel, and the Training and Development Coordinator to provide technical and regulatory compliance support at Columbia University, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Barnard College and New York State Psychiatric Institute campuses, on a variety of defined projects. She assists EH&S in advancing safety and sustaining compliance with relevant program policies and regulations related to safety performance, waste management and training. Laura Corredor Laszlo Virag, MS Roles and Responsibilities As the Senior Health Phyicist, Laszlo is responsible for radiation safety functions and duties relating to the implementation of radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) departmental mission. He provides radiological and related support services to research laboratories on a variety of Columbia University campuses. L. Sebastian Flynn-Roach, MS Roles and Responsibilities As the Associate Manager for Research Safety Programs, Sebastian provides leadership and supervision for EH&S’s Research Safety Operations Team by promoting and supporting a comprehensive laboratory safety, compliance and service program throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and affiliate institutions. Sebastian supports and advances a positive, proactive laboratory safety program, working as a leader and member of the Research Safety Team and collaborating with EH&S colleagues and program leaders to coordinate and consistently deliver EH&S’s essential services and safety programs to the University’s research community related to biological, chemical, physical and radioactive materials in laboratories. Sebastian develops, maintains and promotes policies, procedures and programs for laboratory safety, and ensures the campuses are compliant with pertinent local, state and federal laboratory health and safety codes, standards and regulations and University policies and best practices. Sebastian is accountable for the effective utilization of EH&S’s technology-based systems by the Research Safety Operations Team and establishes ongoing quality assurance/improvement strategies for collected data. Sebastian has direct supervisory responsibility for several Research Safety Operations Team personnel across multiple campuses and must maintain flexibility in working from one or more EH&S office locations each day. Kristin Williams Kristin M. Salmi Kristin Salmi is a Regulatory Science Specialist at the Clinical Trials Office. She assists in overseeing the Clinical Trials Office’s regulatory compliance and providing assistance to the research community at P&S in the development and conduct of clinical trials. Kristin also provides application support for RecruitMe. Kristen Leigh Volz Kristen Volz, JD, is a Senior Contract Specialist with the Clinical Trials Office. She negotiates and finalizes an array of research related agreements on behalf of the research community at P&S. Kristen also advises faculty and staff on applicable laws and institutional policies governing human subjects research. Konstantinos Georgiou, MS, DABMP, CLSO Roles and Responsibilities As the Senior Manager for the Clinical Radiation Safety Programs/Associate Radiation Safety Officer, Konstantinos is responsible for the day to day management of the Joint Radiation Safety Program of Columbia university Medical Center, ColumbiaDoctors faculty practices, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital (NYPH) and its affiliates as it relates to non-research clinical operations. Kinara S. Yang Kinara Yang, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. She provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Kin Tse Kin Tse is a Research Systems Coordinator at the Clinical Trials Office. He provides support to the research community at Columbia University Irving Medical Center with the use of IBM CTMS. Kimberly Bazylewicz Kilsia Sanchez Kazuel M. Bailey Kathryn M Somers Roles and Responsibilities As the Associate Director of Research Safety programs, Kathy is responsible for establishing and maintaining relationships with key stakeholders from the University community, including Principal Investigators, Facilities and Compliance teams, Capital Project Management, Public Safety and others across the University’s research enterprise, at all campuses and affiliated locations. Kathy provides leadership, coaching and support to all EH&S staff, and strategic input to the overall direction of EH&S research safety programming, and the safety culture of the organization, at large. In partnership with staff, managers and leaders of all EH&S program areas (Research Safety, Biosafety, Radiation Safety, Occupational Safety, and Hazardous Materials), Kathy serves as the senior member of the Research Safety Program and Project Development Team, driving the initiation and execution of safety-related projects across all disciplines and promoting best practices within the organization. Kathy also serves as a key communicator of EH&S initiatives and services on behalf of the organization. Kathleen Anne Crowley, DrPH, MPH, PA-C Roles and Responsibilities The Associate Vice President (AVP) leads, advances and oversees the comprehensive environmental health and safety program for Columbia University. A team oriented and integrated program is implemented across all campuses of the University including the Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), Morningside Heights (MS), Manhattanville (MHV), Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) and Nevis Campus; Barnard College; New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI/RFMH); and the New York Presbyterian Hospital (NYPH) - Columbia campus Radiation Clinical Program. Dr. Crowley is responsible for providing: strategic leadership and administrative direction, financial and communication oversight, client support and program coordination, and maintaining a safety culture. EH&S is one-stop for all safety matters including biosafety, chemical safety, radiation safety, laser safety in research, industrial hygiene, fire life safety, and the following disciplines: controlled substances, hearing conservation, shop safety, environmental protection, hazardous waste management, emergency spill response, indoor air quality, and, injury and incident investigations. In collaboration with the University community, a proactive safety program coupled with a comprehensive waste management programs for hazardous, radioactive, universal, and regulated waste with a focus on reduce, reuse, and recycle is in place. The safety and health programs are integrated, creating a model leadership program. Biography Before joining Columbia University, Dr. Crowley worked at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and fulfilled various positions including Director of Occupational Health Services, Administrator for House Staff, and staff Physician Assistant. She holds both a Master’s in Public Health (MPH) and a Doctorate of Public Health (DrPH) from Columbia University, Mailman School of Public Health (MSPH) and received I. Bernard Weinstein Academic Excellence Award in Environmental Health Sciences. She is a board certified Physician Assistant with a Bachelor of Science and Physician Assistant Certificate from SUNY Stony Brook Health Sciences. Dr. Crowley’s professional interests include occupational medicine, workplace safety and prevention, environmental stewardship, emergency management and leadership. Dr. Crowley is an active member of the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) Women’s Leadership Advisory Group, former co-chair. She has participated in numerous panels for Women Leading Change, including Columbia Alumni Leaders Weekend and was co-chair of the University’s inaugural Women’s Conference, She Opened the Door (February 2018). She is currently a member of the CAA Strategic Planning Task Force and the Alumni Medalist Committee (2019-2023). Dr. Crowley is a past president of the Mailman School Alumni Board, served on the Board of Directors (2005-2018), was a member of the Governance Committee which includes selection of the annual Allan Rosenfield Alumni Award and the Outstanding Recent Alumni Award, and served on the Mailman DrPH Strategic Planning Committee. She is the founding editor of the e-Mailman, the Newsletter of the Alumni Association. Previously Dr. Crowley served on several other boards including: the American Association of Physician Assistants in Occupational Medicine (AAPA-OM) and was former President, the Hospital Employee Health Directors of Greater New York, and the Advisory Board for the Mt. Sinai Irving J. Selikoff Occupational Health Clinical Center. Dr. Crowley is a 2017 recipient of the University’s highest Alumni Medal Award where alumni are recognized for building Columbia's community. In her spare time, she enjoys spending time with family and friends, is an avid skier, hiker and participates in multi-sport training and participation in long-course triathlons. Kareem Harrison Julissa G. Borbon-Marcelin Juliana Powell Joyee To Joyee To joins the team as the Operations Coordinator for the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research. Acting in support of Victoria Hamilton, Executive Director of Research Initiatives, she will be aiding in calendar management, office operations, and internal communications as well as taking on ongoing special projects as needed. Before joining Columbia, Joyee was working in operations at Givewith, a social impact driven start-up company, leading office operations, recruiting, and HR efforts. With roots in the theater industry, many of her previous experiences include working in production on Broadway with production companies such as Disney Theatrical Group. Joyee holds a BFA in Theater from the University of Central Florida. Joshua Barber Joseph Gilbride Jonell Liriano Jonelie Urena Jonathan Kim Jonathan Kim, MBA, is the Senior Director of Business Operations for the Clinical Trials Office. He is responsible for management and oversight of business operations and finance in the Clinical Trials Office. He works closely with all the teams in the Clinical Trials Office to facilitate research for the Columbia University research community. John Piccolo Joanne McCormack Jillian D Sacheli Roles and Responsibilities As the Business and Information Technology Manager for EH&S, Jillian is responsible for overseeing all business functions including finance management, department purchasing, website content maintenance and collaboration with 7 safety programs as related to these duties in providing high level teamwork, financial reporting and account analysis to each of the safety programs within EH&S. She is the liaison to University Finance administration and IT sectors while representing the needs of staff members and the mission of EH&S. She executes and ensures compliance with University internal controls as well as financial and technology policies. Jessy George Jessica Kozikott Jessenia Hernandez Jessenia Hernandez is a Financial Analyst at the Clinical Trials Office. Jessenia provides investigators and their research teams financial accounts receivable services, including ARC account creation and changes, invoicing and reconciliation of industry-sponsored clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center. Jennifer Rojas Jennifer Rojas, CPhT, is a Research Pharmacy Coordinator. She signs out and delivers study medication and conducts site qualification visits and interim monitoring visits in addition to managing drug inventory and pharmacy supplies ordering. Jenilee Henriquez Jeannette M. Wing Jeannette M. Wing is the Executive Vice President for Research at Columbia University and Professor of Computer Science. In her EVPR role, she has overall responsibility for the University’s research enterprise at all New York locations and internationally. The New York locations include the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, and Nevis Laboratories. She joined Columbia in 2017 as the inaugural Avanessians Director of the Data Science Institute. Prior to Columbia, Dr. Wing was Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Research, served on the faculty and as department head in computer science at Carnegie Mellon University, and served as Assistant Director for Computer and Information Science and Engineering at the National Science Foundation. Dr. Wing’s research contributions have been in the areas of trustworthy AI, security and privacy, specification and verification, concurrent and distributed systems, programming languages, and software engineering. Her 2006 seminal essay, titled "Computational Thinking,’’ is credited with helping to establish the centrality of computer science to problem-solving in fields where previously it had not been embraced, and thereby influencing K-12 and university curricula worldwide. She is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. She received distinguished service awards from the ACM and the Computing Research Association and an honorary doctorate degree from Linköping University, Sweden. She earned her bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral degrees in computer science, all from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Janique Cheesman Roles and Responsibilities Janique's work focuses on matters relating to export controls, international research, and conflict-of-interest. Biography Ms. Cheesman received her Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering from Syracuse University in 2012. She then went on to complete a Master of Science in Sustainable Engineering from Villanova University. Before coming to Columbia, Ms. Cheesman worked as a consultant for two years on projects involving environmental health and safety, environmental compliance, and corporate sustainability. Janelle Ortega Jane Cho Jane Cho, MS, MPH, is the Associate Director of Regulatory Science at the Clinical Trials Office. She is responsible for the management and oversight of the CTO’s regulatory science unit, which is comprised of the IND/IDE Assistance Program (IAP), the Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC) Training Program, the Clinical Trials Monitoring Assistance Program (CTMAP) and RecruitMe. Irfana Ahmed Hong Wacker Hever Tavarez Helen Kim Helen Kim, PharmD, is the Associate Vice President of the Clinical Trials Office. She manages and supervises the budget and the staff in the Clinical Trials Office who are responsible for assisting investigators in preparing applications, negotiating contracts, setting up sub-award arrangements and maintaining certain post-award/contract functions, in addition to overseeing the operations of CUMC's research pharmacy. Heather T. Horgan Guillermo Michelena Roles and Responsibilities As the Associate Radiation Safety OfficerGuillermo is responsible for routine health physics functions and duties relating to the implementation of hospital-centered and clinical radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety departmental mission. Guillermo provides radiological and related support services to a variety of Columbia University and campuses and affiliates. Greg Culler Greg Culler is the Associate Director of Research Initiatives and Development within the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research. He manages all aspects of the internal peer review process for selecting nominees for limited submission funding opportunities. Additionally, he is responsible for program analysis, faculty outreach, and website development relating to both limited submissions and broader research funding opportunities. Prior to joining the Office of Research Initiatives and Development in 2007, Greg was a project management consultant with Fortress Investment Group (2006 – 2007), and Lord Cultural Resources (2005 – 2006). Previously, he was a Project Manager in the Columbia University Oral History Research Office (2002 – 2005) overseeing collection and archiving of oral history interviews for the September 11 Projects. He holds an MA from Columbia University, and a BA from Arizona State University. Grace Kim Geralyn Pelle Gabriela Cardoso, MPH, ASP Roles and Responsibilities As the Senior Health and Safety Specialist, Gaby proactively build relationships with University and University-affiliate research personnel to facilitate the delivery of high-quality safety services and guidance across a broad range of disciplines throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and multiple campuses. Gaby maintains a client-focused approach and be accountable for assessing research and non-research procedures and practices and developing creative, sustainable and compliant solutions that meet the operational needs of all personnel and are consistent with University standards and best practices. Through collaborations with EH&S colleagues and various University stakeholders and affiliates, Gaby ensures effective and efficient implementation and management of safety program elements in alignment with the Occupational Safety and Research Safety Program Strategic Plan. Gaby holds a BS in Biology from State University of New York at Stony Brook. She completed her MPH in Environmental, Occupational, and Geospatial Sciences, at the City University of New York, Graduate School of Public Health & Health Policy. Franklin E. Espinal Flavia Villegas Landivar Roles and Responsibilities As the Research Safety Program Coordinator, Flavia coordinates with EH&S’s team of health and safety professionals to proactively organize and coordinate processes aimed at efficient, client-focused interactions and regulatory compliance for a broad array of safety programs throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and multiple campuses. Flavia is accountable for assisting the Research Safety Team in assessing current procedures and suggesting creative, sustainable and compliant solutions to achieve regulatory compliance, coordinating interactions, such as surveys, follow-up visits, and meetings and maintaining regulatory documents. Evelyn Quero Ericka A. Peterson Erica Pena Ercilia Encarnacion Emily Riber Roles and Responsibilities As the forefront support of the department, Emily is responsible for the direction, coordination and implementation of all administrative duties inclusive of all campuses/affiliations including Columbia University Medical Center, Morningside, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO), Nevis, Manhattanville, Barnard College, New York Presbyterian Hospital (NYPH), and New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI). Emily coordinates and supports day-to-day administrative duties, activities, office functions ensuring administrative concerns are handled efficiently. Additionally, Emily supports the EH&S department culture with a friendly, positive, enthusiastic disposition engaging in and supporting teambuilding events and activities. Emily Capak Elnaz Anjom Elnaz Anjom, PharmD, is the Senior Director of the Research Pharmacy. She oversees the day to day operation of research pharmacy to ensure safe and effective patient care in addition to planning, organizing, and implementing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in accordance with institutional policies and procedures and in cooperation with other departments while following Good Clinical Practice (GCP), FDA and JCAHO requirements. Eliza Skidgel Eliza Skidgel is the Recruitment Applications Specialist at the Clinical Trials Office. She provides application support for RecruitMe. Eliza Skidgel Eliza Skidgel is the Recruitment Applications Specialist at the Clinical Trials Office. She provides application support for RecruitMe. Eliana Cardona Eliana Cardona is the Program Manager of Clinical Research Systems at the Clinical Trials Office. Eliana provides support to the research community at Columbia University Irving Medical Center with the use of IBM CTMS. Eleana Sosnowski Elba Suarez Dwayne Bryant Roles and Responsibilities As the Health Physicist, Dwayne is responsible for health physics functions and duties relating to the implementation of hospital-centered and clinical radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety departmental mission. Dwayne provides radiological and related support services to a variety of Columbia University and New York Presbyterian Hospital facilities. Donalrey Suarez Nieva Donalrey Nieva, CPhT, is a Research Pharmacy Coordinator. He signs out and delivers study medication and conducts site qualification visits and interim monitoring visits in addition to managing drug inventory and pharmacy supplies ordering. Dominik Hajosi Dina E. Amin Diana Lesmes Dennis Farrell, BA, RT Roles and Responsibilities Dennis is a Health Physicist responsible for health physics functions and duties relating to the implementation of radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety departmental mission. He provides radiological and related support services to a variety Columbia University onsite/off-site campuses, Columbia University Irving Medical Center and New York Presbyterian Hospital facilities. Deborah F. Stiles Role and Responsibilties Deborah Stiles is currently the Vice President for Research Operations and Policy, and Chief Operating Officer in the Office of the EVP for Research, a position she has held since 2004, when the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research was established. As the Vice President for Research Operations and Policy, she manages nine University-wide offices that constitute the backbone of Columbia’s $1 billion research enterprise. These operations include grants and contract processing, the clinical trials office, human and animal research review boards, postdoctoral affairs, environmental health and safety and the animal facilities. With the Executive Vice President for Research, she has been responsible for consolidating and restructuring these operations and improving business processes to increase efficiency and develop better client service to the research community. In addition, she initiated the formation of offices for research compliance and training and research initiatives. Biography Prior to joining Columbia, Ms. Stiles was a corporate partner at the international law firm, Debevoise & Plimpton, having joined the firm as an associate in 1976. At Debevoise, she was head of the firm’s Finance Practice Group and had extensive experience in its finance and private funds practices. She was an associate at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton from 1974-1976. Ms. Stiles received her B.A. from Radcliffe College, magna cum laude, in 1969, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. She received her J.D. from Harvard Law School, cum laude, in 1974. Ms. Stiles is a member of the Dean’s Council of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. She is a member of the Board of Directors of The Collegiate Chorale. She is also a member of the Board of Directors of New York Small Business Venture Fund LLC and New York Small Business Venture Fund II & III LLC that invest in economic development projects in New York City. Ms. Stiles is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. David Skorodinsky Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to the Senior Systems Analyst, David Skorodinsky is responsible for monitoring and supporting the department’s internal and external technology applications, ensuring that the highest level of service is provided to the Columbia University research community. David’s role is to process data analysis tasks with high efficiency and quality in a fast paced environment to support technology solutions that address the operational needs and requirements of the department. He has a passion for data, accuracy and efficiency and is part of a team that provides expert guidance and timely service to the University Community through a commitment to health and safety. Employing best practices and collaboration, and by building long term relationships, EH&S promotes a productive and safety conscious work environment. Danna Kalap Danilda Rojas Daniela D'Armetta Roles and Responsibilities As Manager for Training, Development, and Human Resources (HR), Danielais responsible for supervising assigned staff in the Training Program. Daniela develops and manages a safety education and training program that enables EH&S and other Columbia University stakeholdersto understand and maintain a safe and healthy environment, and ensure compliance with Columbia University and regulatory requirements. Daniela and her team utilize state-of-the-art instructional technology to improve the delivery and content of training in classroom and computer-based trainings (e.g., RASCAL and LION). Daniela is responsible for the coordination, direction, and implementation of HR duties relating to EHS.Daniela spearheads leadership program initiatives, seek opportunities to provide direction, consultation, and support to programs to effectively achieve results. Daniela conducts and manages various department and program improvement initiatives such as needs assessments, and goal evaluations. Daniela is responsible for the facilitation and review of the employee and recruitment lifecycle and the annual departmental employee performance assessment review process. Corey M. Chen Corey M. Chen is a Research Pharmacist. He provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Connie Eng Connie Eng, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. She provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Cody Cameron Roles and Responsibilities As the Biological Safety Officer, Cody promotes and supports the comprehensive biological safety program at all five Columbia University campuses. He demonstrates in-depth knowledge of biological safety regulations and professional guidelines and keeps abreast of regulatory changes through networking, seminars, continuing education and the proactive investigation of scientific literature. He cooperatively integrates activities with other EH&S programs and creatively interacts with multidisciplinary staff to address current and evolving health and safety issues. Cindy Han Cindy Han is a Regulatory Science Specialist at the Clinical Trials Office. She assists in overseeing the Clinical Trials Office’s regulatory compliance and providing assistance to the research community at P&S in the development and conduct of clinical trials. Cindy also provides application support for RecruitMe. Christopher M. Pitoscia, MPH, CSP Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to the Assistant Vice President, Chris is responsible for leading the Research Safety Operations and Occupational Safety Teams and establishing and maintaining relationships with key stakeholders from the University community, including Principal Investigators, Department Chairpersons, Deans, Facilities Operations and Compliance teams, Capital Project Management, Public Safety and others to ensure the consistent delivery of Environmental Health and Safety services and guidance across the University's research enterprise, at all campuses and affiliated locations. Chris provides leadership, coaching and support to all Environmental Health and Safety staff, and strategic input to the overall direction of Environmental Health and Safety programming, and the safety culture of the organization, at large. In his capacity as a senior member of the Research Safety Program, in partnership with managers and leaders of each of Environmental Health and Safety’s program areas, Chris, facilitates the initiation and execution of safety-related operations and projects across all disciplines, promoting best practices within the organization. Chris serves as a primary communicator of Environmental Health and Safety initiatives and services on behalf of the organization. Biography Chris joined Columbia EH&S in 2004 and worked in a variety of roles in the Research Safety and Biological Safety programs before being named Director. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Vermont and a Master of Public Health from the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. He earned his Certified Safety Professional accreditation through the Board of Certified Safety Professionals in 2016, and has been a guest instructor in the Mailman School’s Environmental Health Sciences Methods course, focusing on risk assessment, since 2015. His current professional interests include advancing measurable safety criteria in Columbia’s laboratories and improving the overall safety culture of the University. Chris enjoys playing golf, spending time with family and friends, seeing live music and traveling. Christopher F. Pettinato, MPH, CSP Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to the Associate Vice President of Environmental Health and Safety, Christopher directly leads, promotes and supports a comprehensive, proactive environmental health and safety program for Columbia University at all sites including Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Morningside Heights, Manhattanville, Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory and Nevis Campuses, as well as affiliate site at Barnard College and New York State Psychiatric Institute. Christopher is responsible for providing leadership and operational oversight of institutional research safety and regulatory compliance programs in the areas of chemical and physical safety, environmental protection, laboratory waste management, industrial hygiene, occupational safety, laboratory fire safety, HAZMAT emergency response, research safety training and EH&S data management/systems. Christopher establishes, supports and develops strategic relationships with University and affiliate leaders to develop, maintain and promote policies, procedures and programs for safe work practices and environmental protection, and ensure the campuses are compliant with pertinent local, state and federal health and safety codes, standards, regulations and best management practices. Christopher Aston, PhD Roles and Responsibilities Chris joined Columbia EH&S in December 2011 and directs the Biological Safety Program. He is responsible for providing professional leadership, administrative oversight and for directing biological safety operations, services and programs on all campuses. He serves on several University committees including the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). He is the Responsible Official for the Select Agents Program. Other areas of expertise include performing biological risk assessments, medical surveillance, biological exposure investigations, laboratory design and biological material shipping. He is active in the broader community of Biosafety Professionals through participation in the American (ABSA) and Mid-Atlantic (MABSA) Biological Safety Associations. EH&S Print & Go sheets for medical surveillance received a 2018 CSHEMA innovation award of merit. Biography Growing up in the United Kingdom, Chris was interested from an early age in infectious diseases and the germs that cause them. He received his bachelor’s degree in immunobiology from the University of Wales and his D.Phil. (Ph.D.) from the University of Oxford in molecular and cellular biology, during which time he spent two years as an exchange student at the Rockefeller University. Prior to becoming a safety professional, he was a Principal Investigator at NYU Medical Center, and then at NYU Department of Chemistry. He led a transcriptional profiling team at Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Research in Princeton, and was a CLEP and ELAP-accredited lab director at the New York City Department of Health’s Biothreat Response Laboratory. Prior to joining Columbia, he held a biosafety position at Weill Cornell Medical College. Christina Winnicker Christina Claudio Charlene V. Watson Charlene Melvins Catherine Singer Casey Rollins Casey Rollins is the Assistant Director of Research Proposal Development within the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research. Reporting to the Director of Research Proposal Development, Casey partners with teams of scientific, engineering, and biomedical research faculty to develop innovative and high-impact grant proposals that support the University’s long-term research vision. Prior to joining Columbia, Casey was the Project Manager of Compliance for Charles H. Greenthal Management, one of the largest privately owned residential management and leasing firms in New York metropolitan area. During her time working in compliance she ensured that the over 250 properties in the portfolio were closely monitored to adhere to new and existing laws and regulations. Prior to her time at Charles H. Greenthal Management, Casey was a Graduate Academic Advisor for Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University working with graduate level students from admission through graduation across nineteen degree programs including aeronautics, aerospace engineering, systems engineering, unmanned aircraft systems, cybersecurity management, human factors, logistics and supply chain management, and other degree programs. Casey holds a Bachelor of Science in Paralegal Studies from Mississippi College and a Master of Science in Leadership from Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. Carri-Ann Gay Carol R. Tycko Carmen Nieves Roles and Responsibilities Carmen Nieves is the Senior Coordinator in the Office of Research Compliance and Training, providing support to RCT’s conflict of interest, export control and research misconduct activities, as well as our many training programs. Biography Carmen G. Hoepelman Roles and Responsibilities A Columbia University veteran, Carmen G. Hoepelman has navigated and enjoyed her career journey from Senior Secretary, with the IRB, to Senior Manager for EH&S Administration and Human Resources. As Senior Manager for EH&S Administration and Human Resources, she is responsible for the administration, coordination, direction, and implementation of human resource duties relating to EH&S. Carmen’s communication and collaboration with staff and leaders is critical while providing high quality service as situations arise on a day-to-day basis. The Senior Manager is responsible for the recruitment and placement, onboarding, compliance and maintenance of present and new EH&S personnel. Carmen has maintained long term relationships with Columbia University colleagues, and always offers opportunities to collaborate, advise, or point someone in a positive direction. Candace Castagna Bryan Lui Bryan Lui Bryan George Brian Kim Roles and Responsibilities As the Health Physicist, Brian is responsible for routine health physics functions and duties relating to the implementation of University research radiation safety programs and the Environmental Health and Safety departmental mission. Brian provides radiological and related support services to a variety of Columbia University campuses and affiliates. Brian Karolewski Brian Devonish Brian Devonish is a Chemical Barcoder I stationed at ChemStores. Brian is responsible for bar-coding chemicals upon delivery and receipt and maintaining accurate chemical inventories through reconciliation and empty bottle handling. Brenda L. Ruotolo Role and Responsibilities Brenda is the AVP for Human Research Protection of the Human Research Protection Office / IRBs and is responsible for ensuring that research involving human subjects, including behavioral research (e.g., surveys) and biomedical investigations (e.g., clinical trials), is conducted ethically and in a manner that promotes compliance with all applicable ethical and regulatory requirements. Biography Brenda has been at Columbia University since 2003. She previously served as the Interim Executive Director (since 2013). From 2004-2012, Brenda served as Associate Director, Institutional Review Board and prior to that, she served as Administrative Coordinator (2003-2004). Before joining Columbia University, she served as Sponsored Programs Administrator at Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey from 2000-2003. Her earlier career includes positions at UMDNJ – Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, J&J Temporaries and CCR Electronics, Inc. Brenda received her B.A. in Liberal Studies from Thomas Edison State College. Beverly Shelton Barbara Szolc Roles and Responsibilities Barbara Szolc is the Compliance Specialist in the Office of Research Compliance and Training, helping to manage the administration of the University’s policies and processes concerning conflict of interest in research. Biography Dr. Szolc received an M.D. from University of Lodz, Poland, and completed her postdoctoral training in biomedical science at Northwestern University and Columbia. She was also part of the NASA Space Radiation Exploration Program (NSRSS) in 2007. Dr. Szolc has published many scientific papers in peer-reviewed journals including J. of Rad. Bio., J Vasc Interv Radiol, Magn Reson Med., Radiology, Radiation Research, Nanomedicine and Gastroenterology. Her research was mostly focused in radiation biology, immunology, neurology and social science. Prior to returning to Columbia, Dr. Szolc worked at New York University in education management, providing oversight and monitoring of pre-doctoral academic administration. Ashley L Halinski Ariana Vasquez Ariana Vasquez is a Research Pharmacy Assistant. She signs out and delivers study medication and conducts site qualification visits and interim monitoring visits in addition to managing drug inventory and pharmacy supplies ordering. Araceli Viruet Antoine Florestal Anthony M. Galante Anthony Galante, PharmD, is a Research Pharmacist. He provides essential investigational drug services to investigators and research personnel according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements of FDA and JCAHO. Investigational Drug Services include but are not limited to: dispensation, inventory management, communication with clinical team, communication with study sponsors, sterile compounding of hazardous and non-hazardous agents, creating study specific pharmacy guidelines, handling of on-call studies and conducting Site Initiation Visits (SIV), Close Out Visits (COV) and Monitor Visits (MV). Annie Barry Annette Whyte Anna J Womack Angie Tse, MEng Roles and Responsibilities Reporting to Environmental Health and Safety’s Research Safety Program Leader, Angie, along with a team of health and safety professionals, proactively builds relationships with University and University-affiliate research personnel to facilitate the delivery of high-quality safety services and guidance across a broad range of disciplines throughout the University’s expansive research enterprise and multiple campuses. Angie maintains a client-focused approach and be accountable for assessing research safety procedures and practices and developing creative, sustainable and compliant solutions that meet the operational needs of research personnel and are consistent with University standards and best practices. Through collaborations with Environmental Health and Safety colleagues and various University stakeholders and affiliates, Angie ensures effective and efficient implementation and management of biological, chemical and radiation safety program elements in alignment with the Research Safety Program Strategic Plan. Angela Meng, MS, CHP Roles and Responsibilities Angela, the Associate Director of the Research Radiation Safety Program and Deputy Radiation Safety Officer, is responsible for the day to day management of the research radiation safety program at Columbia University’s Morningside (including Barnard College), Manhattanville, Nevis Laboratories (Irvington, NY) and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (Palisades, NY) and Medical Center (CUIMC) campuses, and the use of radioactive material in international waters. She manages a team of health physicists that supports these programs, and develops and implements the policies and procedures necessary to ensure the safe use of radioactive material and ionizing radiation producing equipment in research. She and her team are responsible for ensuring compliance with City, State, and Federal regulations. Andrew Edward Kraycirik Jr Andrea Hubbard Andie Nguyen Andie Nguyen is a Senior Financial Analyst at the Clinical Trials Office. She provides investigators and their research teams financial accounts receivable services, including ARC account creation and changes, invoicing and reconciliation of industry-sponsored clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center. Anderson Smith Roles and Responsibilities Anderson Smith is the Administrative Manager for the Office of Research Compliance and Training. He is primarily responsible for day-to-day office operations and finance management. Biography Anais Richardson Ana Rivas Ana Julia Alvarez An Nguyen, MS Roles and Responsibilities As the Health and Safety Specialist II, An works in collaboration with EH&S’ full team of health and safety professionals to implement the University’s Occupational Health & Safety strategic plan. As a member of the occupational safety team, An conducts exposure assessments, compiles risk assessment reports and supports the engineering control certification program. She provides expertise on industrial hygiene, ventilation, respiratory protection, use of personal protective equipment, and indoor air quality matters. An promotes a safe work environment for the University community, by recommending feasible and effective controls and supporting their implementation in both laboratories and non-research spaces. An holds a BS in Environmental Studies from Wesleyan University. She completed her MS in Environmental, Occupational, and Geospatial Sciences, at the City University of New York, Graduate School of Public Health & Health Policy. Amanda Kelly Alicia McLuckie Alicia Bergdolt-Batista Alice Reuther Ali A. Capulin Ali A. Capulin is a Financial Analyst at the Clinical Trials Office. He provides investigators and their research teams financial accounts receivable services, including ARC account creation and changes, invoicing and reconciliation of industry-sponsored clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center. Alexander S. Rowe Alexander Romanov Alexander Cruz Aleksandra Tutka Alana Bannerman Adrian Reyes Gloss Addisalem Admassu Sort Office Group Function Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter edit edit Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close