Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Research Compliance › Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Review Board The mission of Temple University's Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) is to protect the rights, dignity, and welfare of human subjects who participate in the research programs of the Temple System. Specifically, the HRPP has authority over all human subjects research conducted using any property or facility of Temple and under the direction of any employee, student, or agent of Temple. This authority extends to Temple University Hospital System employees, who must submit human subjects research to HRPP. Human subjects research is reviewed via three methods: a convened IRB; expedited review; or exempt review. Note that the determination for exemption is made by HRPP, not the investigator, and therefore must always be submitted formally. The HRPP supports Temple's dedication to excellence in research by promoting the ethical principles of respect for persons, beneficence, and justice as discussed in The Belmont Report. Investigators have ethical and Institutional responsibilities in conducting human subjects research. For more information, please refer to the Human Research Protection Program Plan and the WORKSHEET: Human Research Determination. For example, the Human Research Protection Program Plan provides the FDA definition of research and the DHHS and FDA definitions of human subjects. The Human Research Determination worksheet can guide you through the analysis of whether an activity is human subjects research. If you have questions about whether an activity is Human Research, submit a synopsis of the proposed activity to: irb@temple.edu. The IRB will provide a written determination. As a reminder, you must not conduct human subjects research without prior IRB review and approval. Please visit the IRB ERA Training and review the training materials and tutorial videos for more information and instructions on how to submit items electronically to the IRB using the ERA system. Research personnel are required to complete human research protection training which includes the Biomedical Research or Social/Behavior Research courses and the Practice Runs Training. Please follow the instructions on our IRB Trainings and Resources page to get CITI training information. HRP-001 POLICY –Definitions is provided here Announcements: Access the IRB Committee Meetings & Deadlines: Human Subjects Schedule A1 Human Subjects Schedule A2 Electronic submission via the ERA system is required for all IRB submissions - including new applications for human subjects protocols, continuing reviews, Reportable New Information submissions, requests for amendments to approved human subjects research, initial (only) WIRB reviews, and study closures. Please visit the ERA Documentation & Training page and review the training materials and tutorial videos for more information and instructions on how to submit items electronically to the IRB using the ERA system. In This Section Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) IRB Guidance on Human Subjects Protections Considerations Related to COVID-19 Investigator Quick Links IRB Forms & Standard Operating Procedures FAQs | Institutional Review Board IRB Trainings and Resources Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple