Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides Government Information Home Search this Guide Search Government Information: Home A guide for finding government information. HomeToggle Dropdown Searching for Government Documents at SU Libraries First Places to look for Gov InformationToggle Dropdown Hot Topics, Consumer links, Media Fact Check/PACs/Lobbying/Open Gov/Pork Patents and Census Sources Grants, Funding & Tutorials State/Local Government InfoToggle Dropdown City & County links State (New York & Other States) New York State Legislation US Government Information LinksToggle Dropdown Executive Branch - President/Agencies Legislative Branch - Congress Judicial Branch - Courts/Legal Policy Resources & Statistics Gov Doc Databases U.S. Gov Documents - The Basic Collection International Government Info International statistics U.S. Constitution Citing Gov. Publications - Federal and State Copyright Webcasts - TV feeds FOIA / FOIL resources Income Tax Forms January 6th Committee Government Documents Government Publications at Syracuse University The government documents collection includes all types of government publications in all formats. The SU Libraries has been a part of the Federal Depository Library Program for more than 140 years since it was designated by US Congressional Representative Frank Hiscock on Feb 7, 1878. We currently select 70% of all documents available to depository libraries. We also collect other government publications that include: New York State, City of Syracuse and Onondaga County documents Documents from the Council of Europe, United Nations, Great Britain The collection includes over 500,000 paper items, thousands of items in electronic format, over 4,000 CD-ROMS and DVDs, and over 2 million microfiche. Materials are located on the 3rd floor of Bird Library. Most government publications can be searched for by using the Classic Catalog or SUMMON This library is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. government documents. Public access to the government documents collection is guaranteed by public law. (Title 44 United States Code) BREAKING NEWS Updated April 4, 2022. I-81 Viaduct Project - July 2021 The Library has the newly released environmental impact statement, both in digital and print format, for the I-81 Viaduct Project now available at the 1st and 3rd floor service desks. Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change The report provides an updated global assessment of climate change mitigation progress and pledges, and examines the sources of global emissions. President's Budget for FY 2023 This year's budget focuses on inequities and disparities in health care, housing, education and addresses civil rights and justice reforms. Congressional Pictorial Directory From the 117th Congress. Color photographs of each member of the House of Representatives and the Senate. January 6th Committee Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. Links to the Committee's activities, hearings, schedules, and reports. JFK Assassination Records released The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) is processing previously withheld John F. Kennedy assassination-related records. E-Code of Federal Regulations New searchable version of the CFR from GPO and the National Archives. Scanned issues of the US Monthly catalog of Government publications Digital versions of the Monthly catalog from 1895-2004 now available from GPO. NEWS - Upcoming release of 2020 Census redistricting data August 16th the US Census will release the latest data set on the racial and ethnicity makeup of neighborhoods. United States Government Policy and Supporting Positions (Plum Book) Also known as the PLUM BOOK. Updated 12/01/2020. It lists over 7,000 Federal civil service leadership and support positions in the legislative and executive branches of the Federal Government that may be subject to noncompetitive appointment, nationwide. Senate Intelligence Committee’s bipartisan Russia Report - All volumes Volume 5 with 1,000 pages, just released, stands as the most comprehensive examination of ties between Russia and the 2016 Trump campaign. Links is for all volumes of this report. Pandemic Fund Oversight The Pandemic Response Accountability Committee (PRAC) composed of federal Offices of Inspector General to "promote transparency and conduct and support oversight of covered funds and the Coronavirus response to (1) prevent and detect fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement; and (2) mitigate major risks that cut across program and agency boundaries." Rather than a stand-alone organization. Constitution Annotated From the Library of Congress. This site provides a comprehensive overview of how the Constitution has been interpreted over time. Pig Book - 2019 NEW and UPDATED!!!! The 2019 Pig Book is now out and searchable. Find all that government porkbarrel spending Congress and the Executive agencies are engaged in. Mueller Report This is the Official archived version from GPO of the newly released Mueller Report. United Nations Digital Library This site incorporates digital content from official UN documents and selected UN maps as well as speech and voting records. Contact John Olson Email Me Contact: 358 Bird Library Individual appointments for in-depth reference inquiries are also welcome through MS Teams or Zoom. 315.443.4818 Social Media: Twitter Page Subjects: Earth Sciences, Geography, Maps and GIS, Government Information Preservation Steward Syracuse University Library has entered into a Preservation Stewardship agreement with the US Government Publishing Office (GPO). The Libraries will be one of four geographically dispersed locations around the country to permanently preserve and retain the print volumes of the United States Statutes at Large. Next: Searching for Government Documents at SU Libraries >> Last Updated: May 2, 2022 9:40 AM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/government Print This Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Government Information Tags: general_and_interdisciplinary, government_information Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern