Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Research Ethics & Compliance — Film Discussions Research Ethics & Compliance — Film Discussions This discussion series examines research ethics issues raised in popular films and documentaries. We welcome multidisciplinary perspectives. Anyone from any University department is welcome to attend any or all of these events. Please stay tuned for future events in this series! Please direct any questions to the series' organizer, Shawna Benston, at [email protected] Past events: Expand all Collapse all May 2022: "The Eugenics Crusade" Tuesday, May 3rd, 2PM to 3:30PM. This event was held online via Zoom. Discussion of the documentary, "The Eugenics Crusade," and the ethical issues it raises with expert panelists, Dr. Robert Klitzman and Ms. Erica Spiegel. Where to watch the film: Columbia affiliates can view the full film for free here. December 2021: "Remembering Anarcha" Thursday, December 16th, 1PM to 3:00PM. This event was held online via Zoom. Please note that this event was not recorded. Discussion of the documentary "Remembering Anarcha," about Dr. James Marion Sims' controversial legacy as the "father of modern gynecology" who conducted experiments on enslaved women. This event welcomed: Harriet Washington Hilda Hutcherson J.C. Hallman Michelle Browder Speaker Bios Where to view the film: See options here. To watch for free, click here or here. Sample Bibliography for this Topic Medical Apartheid: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans from Colonial Times to the Present, by Harriet Washington A medical hell recounted by its victims, by Harriet Washington Statues that perpetuate lies should not stand: Monuments to the 'father of gynaecology' cannot be defended as historical documents because they hide grave injustices, by Harriet Washington Apology Shines Light on Racial Schism in Medicine, by Harriet Washington Monumental Error: Will New York City finally tear down a statue? by J.C. Hallman Anarcha, by J.C. Hallman (forthcoming book; see here for more information) The Cry of Alice, by J.C. Hallman J. Marion Sims statue: a questionable monument in a questionable place, by J.C. Hallman The statue of a doctor who experimented on enslaved women still stands in Alabama. But now there’s also a monument to his victims. [about Michelle Browder’s monument of Anarcha, Lucy, and Betsey, called “The Mothers of Gynecology”] Memory and Medicine: A Historian’s Perspective on Commemorating J. Marion Sims, by Susan M. Reverby [includes the image of Robert Thom’s painting of Sims] An Antebellum Hero, but to Whom? by David Gonzalez Sculpture of Paradox: Doctor as Hero and Villain, by David Gonzalez June 2021: "Miss Evers' Boys" Wednesday, June 9th, 2PM to 3:30PM. This event was held online via Zoom. Please note that this event was not recorded. Discussion of "Miss Evers' Boys." View the full film here (available to only Columbia affiliates). This event featured Harriet Washington and Robert Fullilove in a discussion moderated by Hilda Hutcherson and involving audience participation. March 2021: "Gattaca" Monday, March 8th, 2pm to 3:30pm. This event was held online via Zoom. Please note that this event was not recorded. Discussion of "Gattaca." This event featured NYU's Arthur Caplan and Columbia's Maya Sabatello in a discussion involving audience participation and moderated by Shawna Benston. December 2020: "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks" Thursday, December 10th, 3pm - 4:30pm. This event was held online via Zoom. Please note that this event was not recorded. Discussion of "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks." View the full film here (available to only Columbia affiliates). This event featured a full Columbia panel including Dr. Robert Fullilove and Dr. Jacquelyn Taylor in a discussion involving audience participation and moderated by Dr. Sandra Soo-Jin Lee. June 2020: "Charly" Wednesday, June 24th, 3:30pm – 5pm. This event was held online via Zoom. Please note that this event was not recorded. Discussion of "Charly" The third session focused on the 1968 film, "Charly." Featuring Columbia’s Paul Appelbaum and the University of British Columbia's Judy Illes in a discussion involving audience participation and moderated by Shawna Benston. February 2020: "Voices from the Grave" Monday, February 24th: 2-4pm with light reception to follow, Joseph D. Jamail Lecture Hall in Columbia Journalism School (2950 Broadway) Discussion of "Voices from the Grave" The second session of this series focused on the 2010 documentary, "Voices from the Grave" and the research leading to the film and book that inspired it. Co-hosted by the Office of Research Compliance and Training and the Human Research Protection Office/IRBs. Featuring Columbia’s Mary Marshall Clark and the documentary’s producer Ed Moloney in a discussion involving audience participation and moderated by Columbia’s Geraldine Downey. October 2019: "Three Identical Strangers" Monday, October 21st, 3-5pm, Vagelos Education Center Room 201 Discussion of "Three Identical Strangers" The first session focused on the 2018 documentary, "Three Identical Strangers." Triplets who had been adopted in infancy by three different families in infancy accidentally reconnect as young adults and ultimately discover nefarious reasons for their initial separation. Audience members came prepared to experience and investigate a riveting narrative of a NYC-based family who were unknowing subjects of an intense research study with wide-ranging implications. Co-hosted by the Office of Research Compliance and Training and the Human Research Protection Office/IRBs. Featuring Columbia's Robert Klitzman and Neil Schluger in a discussion moderated by Shawna Benston and Challace Pahlevan-Ibrekic. Contact Shawna Benston, JD, MBE Associate Director for Research Compliance Education Office of Research Compliance and Training 212-851-2897 s[email protected] [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close