Skip to main content Research Funding Menu About this Database Contact us Search Opportunities Subscribe Subscribe to the Funding Alert Newsletter The Duke Funding Alert newsletter, published every Monday, provides information on all new and updated grants and fellowships added to the database during the prior week. This listserv is restricted to members of the Duke community. Request Subscription The Office of Research Support provides this extensive, on-line database of funding opportunities as a resource for the entire Duke University research community. Search Funding Opportunities Discipline Arts & Humanities Community Outreach and Engagement Curriculum Development Engineering and Physical Sciences Environmental & Life Sciences Interdisciplinary International Opportunities Medical -Medical - Basic Science -Medical - Clinical Science -Medical - Translational Social Sciences Who's Eligible African American Asian Disabled Faculty Grad/Prof Students Hispanic Institutional Junior Faculty Medical Fellow/Resident Minorities encouraged Native American Post Doctoral Fellows Women Women and minorities encouraged Women of Color Institutionally Limited? - Any - Yes No Funding Type Award Fellowship Grant Prize Professorship Scholarship Stipend Funding Agency Name Funding Agency Type - Any - Federal Non-Federal External Deadline Date Posted Search all opportunities Search open opportunities only If you want to export your Search results to a spreadsheet, log in with your NetID before searching. Advanced Search Resources Federal grants Grants.gov allows organizations to electronically find and apply for more than $400 billion in Federal grants. Foundation Directory Online Foundation Center's Foundation Directory Online is the most comprehensive search tool available for locating the funding interests of foundations on local, regional, national, and international levels, as well as past foundation grants and grantees. The Foundation Center publishes the free electronic newsletter, Foundation Center's RFP* Bulletin. Access the database through Duke Libraries. (NetID required) myRESEARCHhome Using this ORS funding database, the Funding Opportunities widget in myRESEARCHhome recommends relevant internal and external funding opportunities based on your research profile. Opportunities can be sorted with filters, saved or removed with relevancy feedback, and shared with others. Recommendations are updated in real time as ORS finds new funding. Pivot PIVOT maintains a database of grants, fellowships, and other funding information from public and private, domestic and international sources. Though the name refers to holdings on science funding, this service also offers a wealth of information on social sciences, humanities & community outreach funding. Duke Internal Funding Information regarding funding opportunities within Duke. Shared Resources at Duke A list of links to shared instrumentation and other resources at Duke. Office of Foundation Relations Duke's Office of Foundation Relations connects faculty with foundation funders and provides assistance with proposal development, strategy, stewardship, and more. Subscribe to the Funding Alert Newsletter The Duke Funding Alert newsletter, published every Monday, provides information on all new and updated grants and fellowships added to the database during the prior week. This listserv is restricted to members of the Duke community. Request Subscription Announcements Institutionally Limited Opportunities posted 5/22/2022 - 5/28/2022 Institutionally Limited Opportunities posted 5/15/2022 - 5/21/2022 Institutionally Limited Opportunities posted 5/8/2022 - 5/14/2022 Institutionally Limited Opportunities posted 5/12022 - 5/7/2022