Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Research Development The Office of Research is dedicated to enhancing UC’s ability to conduct innovative, transformative and cross-disciplinary scholarly research and creative activities. overview Staff opens a new page Events + Trainings opens a new page Announcements opens a new page All Forms, Policies and Procedures are now located within Research How 2, where faculty and staff will find a centralized location for all their transactional needs. Welcome to the University of Cincinnati’s Research Development Services (RDS). We focus on increasing University of Cincinnati competitiveness for sponsored research, support and develop faculty research leadership, oversee internal grant programs, and identify strategic opportunities to engage faculty and staff across the entire campus in cross-disciplinary research and scholarly activities. The following initiatives are led or managed out of the RDS unit: Professional Development Develop your research toolkit & sharpen your skill set. Program Development Find opportunities & collaborators to build your research network, grants, funding, and award base. Proposal Development Identify funders, write better proposals and improve award success rates. Contact Mailing Address Research Development Services University of Cincinnati University Hall, Suite 540 ML 0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Street Address University Hall, Suite 540 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 View on map General Inquiries Phone: 513-558-0026 View All Offices Animal Care and Use Program Biosafety Export Controls Government Cost Compliance Human Research Protection Program Office of Research - Security & Ethics Office of Research Integrity Office of the Vice President for Research Radiation Safety Office Sponsored Research Services Programs & Initiatives Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021