Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search Georgia Tech Research Find a Mentor HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Find a Mentor Find a Mentor Undergraduate students entering the innovation-oriented culture of Georgia Tech enrich their experience through mentoring relationships with faculty and other students who have been there and done that. Mentors not only provide intellectual stimulation for an understudy; they help make a large, complex research university like Georgia Tech a tight-knit and supportive community. Helping to knit together that web of mentors with motivated undergrads at Georgia Tech is a group called the Undergraduate Research Ambassadors (URA). Created by the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP), the ambassadors are undergrads with research experience committed to helping fellow students navigate Tech’s research landscape. URA hosts ‘Office Hours’ every week, meets with undergrads, maintains and provides an exclusive data base of research positions, and hosts events throughout the year, all designed to help undergrads find research mentors and opportunities. Most of Georgia Tech’s colleges and schools offer undergraduate research programs and tips on how to find mentors. Here are some useful resources to help students launch the journey to achieving their research goals: The Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program offers face-to-face mentoring, as well as links to different undergraduate research opportunities/mentors, across campus and beyond. UROP provides links to all of the Georgia Tech schools and departments that participate in the undergraduate Research Option. The Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering launched a mentorship program in 2014 that matches each incoming freshman with a student mentor. The Center for the Study of Women, Science and Technology offers a program that links students with a female faculty mentor from a closely related discipline. The KNIT Mentorship Program (Knowledge, Nurture, Interaction, and Tradition) aims to empower and prepare new students, encompassing all majors and co-curricular involvements. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN