Skip to menu Skip to content WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Menu Menu Close Research Home COVID-19 Funding Opportunities OR Suggestion Box! Research Strengths Achievements Statewide Impact WSU Research Admin Awards Events Centers, Institutes, facilities, and capabilities Centers, Institutes, and Collaborative Units Regulated Data Environment Facilities and capabilities Research Computing Libraries Office of Research Supported Centers and Laboratories Researcher Resources Ethics and Compliance Animals Involvement and Care Campus Vet Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Research Development & Funding Support & Operations Research Support and Operations Conflict of Interest WSU Cannabis Research Undergraduate Research Office of Research About Vice President/Vice Chancellor Research Misconduct Reporting Offices Partnerships Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Policies Authorship Determination Matching Funds for Equipment Ethics University Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems – Research Activity Faculty Resource Guide for Washington Public Records Requests National Level Reports Research Council Reports 120-day study CILs Taskforce Recommendations Innovation and Entrepreneurship Review F&A Report OR Blogs VPR Blog WSU Research Highlights Contact Us The Northwest Hydrogen Hub The Northwest Hydrogen Economy The Washington Edge Regional Clean Hydrogen Hubs: Fueling the Clean Energy Future CHARGE-The Consortium Charge Conference VPR Lecture – Dr. Rosalyn LaPier Close WSU Research Building knowledge for a healthier world WSU Research Washington State University researchers untangle complex problems to enrich quality of life for us all. Their work safeguards the health of humans and animals. It helps ensure the security and abundance of our food supply. It cultivates sustainable sources of energy to power future generations. Discoveries and innovations of this Tier 1 research institution fuel prosperity across the Pacific Northwest. WSU researchers, students develop agriculture water monitoring website A growing number of fruit and vegetable growers in the Columbia Basin are working with researchers in WSU Extension to find an easier way to track and share data on […] The WSU Vancouver Research Showcase must go on: Virtually Research Showcase is one of the largest events for graduate and undergraduate students on the Washington State University Vancouver campus to showcase their research. But when the “Stay Home, Stay […] Researchers Solve Construction Waste Problem with Help of Amazon Catalyst Grant Construction waste is a growing problem in the United States. Waste consists of unwanted materials left over during new construction or renovations from both residential and commercial buildings. The waste […] Who goes there? Secret weapons come in surprising shapes and sizes. For the National Park Service, it’s Washington State University’s Public Opinion Laboratory where, by simply asking questions, the agency wins battles over […] Research news Recent WSU News Stories CNBC December 9, 2021 FAA research grants aim to tackle aviation’s massive deficit of greener fuel The Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday announced a series of new university research grants in hopes of making greener aviation fuel cheaper and less scarce. KIRO TV December 2, 2021 WSU study: Cannabis affects sperm counts in mice A Washington State University study showed that an intense but short-term exposure to cannabis vapor lowered sperm counts and slowed sperm movement not only in male mice that were directly exposed, but also in their sons. Science November 29, 2021 How one society rebounded from ‘the worst year to be alive’ After a global catastrophe, Ancestral Puebloans built a stronger, more cohesive culture Spokesman-Review November 27, 2021 WSU study: Shoppers want to return to stores The majority of Pacific Northwest shoppers support local businesses and are willing to shop in-store this holiday season, but have concerns about COVID-19 mandates and supply chain issues. This is according to a Washington State University study recently released that surveyed more than 1,700 people in Washington, Idaho and Oregon. The Columbian November 18, 2021 WSUV breaks ground on science building Officials say space will help meet growing demand for STEM programs Big Country News November 16, 2021 Four WSU Faculty Recognized on the 2021 Highly Cited Researchers List The 2021 list recognizing the top 1% most cited researchers in the world includes four Washington State University faculty. Washington state minorities die at younger ages from opioids than whites Some nomadic birds look for social cues to stop migrating Smart pacifier developed to monitor infant health in hospitals AI predicts infant age, gender based on temperament More WSU News research stories Office Of Research Annual Reports Office of Research Annual Reports 2020 (pdf) 2019 (pdf) 2018 (pdf) 2017 (pdf) 2016 (pdf) 2015 (pdf) 2014 (pdf) 2013 (pdf) Partnerships, commercialization, and financial support Research partners Economic development and commercialization Support WSU research Partners in discovery Collaboration accelerates and strengthens the discovery of WSU scholars. Partners in industry, government, and academia help WSU faculty address a set of Grand Challenges—priorities that focus on urgent problems of the state, nation, and world. Bringing innovations to the marketplace WSU researchers’ technological innovations drive economic expansion for the state of Washington and the nation. Find out how WSU partners with private industry to move from invention to commercialization. Your gift touches lives worldwide WSU’s growing research agenda is fueled by the generous sponsorship of government, industry, organizations, friends, and alumni. Their financial support also makes possible unparalleled learning experiences in the lab and the field for WSU students. Please join us in shaping the future. Make a gift to support life-changing research at WSU. Donate Now More Resources Economic Development Commercialization WSU Strategic Plan MyResearch Portal Donate Here! WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU