Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › OVPR Updates › Research Development Resources Research Development Resources Research development at Temple University provides strategic, proactive, and capacity-building activities that serve the research enterprise at large by supporting individual faculty members, teams of researchers, and college/school research administrations in attracting extramural research funding, fostering relationships, and developing and implementing grantsmanship strategies that increase institutional competitiveness and innovation. Resources that enhance and expand Temple’s research agenda include: Onboarding faculty, staff, and students to Temple’s research enterprise; Identifying and analyzing funding opportunities and contact with funding sponsors; Developing researcher capacity to improve the number, size and quality of grant proposals; Improving the success rate of submitted proposals, especially those targeted to larger, more complex grant programs; Providing strategic direction and expert support for Temple’s research community. Limited Submission Opportunities Program Temple InfoReady Internal Funding Program External Funding Opportunities Limited Submission Opportunities Program What Is A Limited Submission? Limited Submission opportunities are external funding announcements from federal agencies, foundations, and professional associations with restrictions or limits on the number of applications that an institution may submit. Typically, these involve the number of proposals or letters of intent that Temple University may submit for a specific funding cycle. In such cases, pre-proposals from internal candidates will be reviewed and evaluated to determine which may be selected for submission to the funding sponsor on behalf of Temple University. The overarching objective is to make Temple as competitive as possible for these external competitions through an internal review process that ensures transparency and fairness. What is Temple University’s Process For Limited Submissions? The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) oversees and manages the Limited Submission Opportunities Program. OVPR has an Internal Review Peer Committee drawn from faculty, deans, and senior administration with expertise in the targeted research area. Committee members review and evaluate the pre-proposals, using sponsor guidelines and review criteria and make recommendations to the Vice President for Research based on the merits. The committee’s aim is to identify the best pre-proposals that have the greatest potential for success for each limited submission opportunity. Faculty must observe the following process to secure OVPR authorization for proposal submission. Limited submission opportunities are posted on Temple InfoReady with an announcement sent to Associate Deans for Research for dissemination to faculty; Eligible candidates submit pre-proposals through Temple InfoReady; Peer reviewers evaluate the pre-proposals based on sponsor guidelines and review criteria; All candidates receive a review critique through Temple InfoReady; Selection notification for the approved candidate is sent through Temple InfoReady to candidates, department research administrators, Associate Deans for Research, and OVPR Pre-Award Management; The selected candidate is approved to move forward with submission of a full proposal to sponsor. How Does OVPR Identify Limited Submission Opportunities? Standard, regular recurring programs Limited Submission FOAs Here Ad hoc opportunities presented by faculty or staff Strategic opportunities developed in response to an urgent national or global concern For questions please contact funding@temple.edu. Temple InfoReady The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) uses Temple InfoReady to support the internal review of external funding opportunities that limit institutional or investigator eligibility. The portal also supports the dissemination, submission, and review of OVPR funding initiatives. The aim is to foster and enhance the highest possible quality research culture and to broaden participation in internal and limited submission competitions. Please note that for externally sponsored limited submission opportunities (including but not limited to federal and foundation sponsors), investigators will use Temple InfoReady as the platform to submit pre-proposals. OVPR will manage a peer review process to determine which proposal(s) will be approved by OVPR to go forward for submission to an external funding agency. Applicants will be able to monitor the status of their submission using their Temple InfoReady account. Temple InfoReady will not take the place of the university Electronic Research Administration (ERA) system used for proposal submissions to external agencies. OVPR-approved institutional candidates or nominees selected for limited submission competitions must use ERA to submit full proposals to external sponsors. Investigators will also use Temple InfoReady to submit complete application packages in response to OVPR-sponsored funding initiatives. Information about initiatives will be posted on the Temple InfoReady site. Peers will review proposals for internal funding. Applicants will be able to monitor the status of their submission using their Temple InfoReady account. Log In/User Profile Set-up In order to begin submitting applications and/or pre-proposals, the first step is to log into the Temple InfoReady site and complete a User Profile. The User Profile only has to be completed once. To log into Temple InfoReady: Click the white hyperlink "Log in" at the top right corner of the Home page Enter your Temple credentials on the Login screen Click the Login button To Set Up Your User Profile: Click on your name at the top right corner of the Home page You are now on the User Profile page Complete the information for Primary Organization as follows: Click on the Add Primary Organization box You will see a list of Temple schools, colleges, and offices Find your listing and click on the drop-down arrow. This will take you to a listing of divisions within your school/college Click on the drop-down arrow for the division name pertinent for you Find your department name and put a check mark in the box next to the name; there should be a 5-digit code next to this name Click the Save & Close button at the bottom right of the screen This takes you back to the User Profile page Scroll down and click the Save Changes button This will take you back to the User Profile page You do not need to complete the Secondary Organization box Degree(s): you may enter your pertinent degree(s) Email Address: Do not change the email address that is shown for you, even if you use a different version Phone Number: Only Temple phone numbers should be used Roles: This should show as Applicant When you have finished setting up your User Profile, click the Save Changes button at the bottom right of the screen. You should see a message at the top of the page that says, “User Profile updated successfully.” Click the Home tab at the top left of the page to exit the User Profile page. Please direct questions or requests for assistance with Temple InfoReady to funding@temple.edu. Internal Funding Program The Office of the Vice President for Research conducts an annual Internal Funding Program for faculty to help bolster individual research programs and develop a framework to attain extramural funding. Complete guidelines and application information is highlighted on the OVPR website when the submission window for each program is active. This program focuses on faculty-led research in these areas: early-stage interdisciplinary research projects in specific targeted areas; novel interdisciplinary projects with strong potential for external funding; bridge (gap) funding so existing research programs and staff can be maintained while extramural funding is secured; innovative research, scholarly or creative projects in the humanities and arts disciplines. Catalytic Collaborative Funding Initiative-The CAT Program The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) at Temple University invites university investigators to apply for internal funding to support catalytic and cross-cutting research with potential to expand on existing strengths or develop new and innovative research related to thematic and strategic research areas of emphasis. The aim of this initiative is to enhance Temple University's competitiveness to leverage prospective funding in specific thematic areas from federal agencies, including but not limited to National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, and Department of Defense divisions. The CAT Program will prioritize funding for interdisciplinary and/or multi-college efforts that have the potential to advance the university's contribution to the understanding of one of the following thematic topics: Sustainability Science, Rules of Life Research, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Design Innovation for Infrastructure and Engineered Environments, Cancer Research and COVID-19 Research. Applications will be accepted through March 26, 2021. More information on each theme and the program requirements can be found here. Bridge Research Funding Program Bridge funding provides financial support for existing research programs when external funding sources are expended. The funding needs to support the continuation of the operations of a lab or program to avoid ending the program while external support is being reviewed or pursued. Bridge funding must be used in a strategic and coordinated way to maintain project/lab momentum while assuring effective use of limited resources. Bridge program funds may be used to retain key personnel, the performance of limited laboratory or other research activity to permit the accumulation of new data essential to renew a source of external funding, or to prevent major disruptions in the continuation of research activities that would negatively impact the ability to secure continuation funding from external sponsors. Applications will be accepted through March 19, 2021. More information on The Bridge Research Program can be found here. Temple University Humanities and Arts Research Program The Humanities and Arts Research Program fosters faculty research, scholarship and creative activity in the humanities and arts. The fund supports creative, scholarly activities that have the potential to drive external gifts, foundation funding, donations, and grant competitiveness of an individual or team. Eligible projects for this program include publications, performances, films, artistic or museum installations, digital arts and humanities projects, and other arts or humanities works. Proposals may be discipline specific or interdisciplinary in nature. A call for proposals is typically issued in the spring. External Funding Opportunities A vast array of external funding opportunities are available to Temple University researchers. The sites below offer listings for federal, state, foundation, and other non-profit sponsors. These sites are monitored and updated regularly to provide the mose accurate and current information. Federal and State Sponsors Foundation and Non-Profit Sponsors Go to top In This Section About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources Student Research Opportunities Guide To Research Funding Portals Faculty Grantsmanship Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple