Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Innovation › Temple Startups Temple Startups Temple University Startup Companies Temple University actively places its technology into newly formed entities commonly called spinouts or startups. Our model for the creation of new companies is intended to enable the most efficient mechanism of moving a technology forward toward commercialization to secure investment only when the technology is significantly de-risked. Our process focuses on capital efficiency and resource identification. Temple’s New Venture model is designed to use seed and angel funding in combination with early engagement with a strategic partner. Key startup resources offered by Temple include: Dedicated support under the Sr. Director of New Ventures and Business Development, who will guide faculty members, interested entrepreneurs and companies through the process. SBIR/STTR assistance through a partnership with the Innovation Partnership and NSF I-Corps Northeast Hub. Venture funding through Temple Ventures—Powered by Ben Franklin and easy access to Mid-Atlantic Diamond Ventures (MADV) via Gust. Prototyping and other services for engineering-based technology through our partnership with Ben Franklin FabNet™ Startup coaching and mentoring for students and alumni via the Blackstone LaunchPad at Temple University. Additional resources are available and will be aligned to meet the specific needs of each startup. This customized approach is critical for meeting key technical or scientific milestones that can efficiently de-risk the technology in an effort to attract further investment, management and other resources. View our portfolio of startup companies actively working to commercialize Temple discoveries. Contact J. Todd Abrams todd.abrams@temple.edu if you are interested in exploring a new venture for your technology. In This Section Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple