Close menu Global Navigation VPR Funding Find Funding Pre-Award Support Post-Award Support Proposals Proposal Services Proposal Development Collaboration Training Grants Compliance Research Regulatory Support Animal Care Human Subjects Environmental Health & Safety Export Control Conflict of Interest Research Integrity Stem Cell University Research Organization Outside Influence Guidance MSU Policies Commercialization Innovation Center Business Connect MSU Technologies Spartan Innovations Bioeconomy Institute AgBio Product Center Resources Getting Started in Research Resource Contact List Core Facilities Centers & Institutes Library Training Acronyms Find an Expert Events & Workshops Event Archive COVID-19 Research Response Students VPRGS Local navigation About Initiatives Facts & Figures Administrative Units People Communications News Search Search Skip to Main Content Menu Global Navigation VPR Funding Find Funding Pre-Award Support Post-Award Support Proposals Proposal Services Proposal Development Collaboration Training Grants Compliance Research Regulatory Support Animal Care Human Subjects Environmental Health & Safety Export Control Conflict of Interest Research Integrity Stem Cell University Research Organization Outside Influence Guidance MSU Policies Commercialization Innovation Center Business Connect MSU Technologies Spartan Innovations Bioeconomy Institute AgBio Product Center Resources Getting Started in Research Resource Contact List Core Facilities Centers & Institutes Library Training Acronyms Find an Expert Events & Workshops Event Archive COVID-19 Research Response Students Office of Research and Innovation Search Search Main navigation About Initiatives Facts & Figures Administrative Units People Communications News Global Impact Initiative Michigan State University has been advancing the common good with uncommon will for more than 160 years. But today, the world requires more from us. The pace is faster and the problems more complex. The ability to anticipate change and respond nimbly is crucial, and it will differentiate the 21st century’s leading institutions of higher education. Through the MSU Global Impact Initiative, MSU plans to recruit more than 100 new faculty investigators to our research team to help accelerate finding solutions to the recognized “Grand Challenges.” This comprehensive investment will focus new and enhanced research endeavors around energy, health, education, the environment, national security, and global development. Concurrently, this initiative will propel Michigan State University forward, allowing us to aggressively pursue big ideas, innovation, and global impact. We invite you to learn more and share our enthusiasm as we tackle some of the world’s toughest problems. Priority Areas New Global Impact Faculty Open Faculty Positions Background In June 2014, the Michigan State University Board of Trustees approved the Academic Competitiveness Fund (ACF) to provide resources for hiring tenure system faculty who will enhance the national and international excellence and competitiveness of MSU as a research university. From this resource, the Global Impact Initiative was launched with a goal to recruit 100 new faculty in some of the most exciting new areas of research. The Global Impact Initiative (GI2) continues to make excellent progress in bringing the best and brightest faculty to MSU. Over the last five years, the Office of the Provost and the Office of Research and Innovation, have worked with individual colleges and departments to conduct searches focused on key areas of innovation, such as machine learning, precision medicine, computational genomics, autonomous vehicles, advanced materials, gene-editing, advanced plant science, and more. Nearly 90 positions have been filled, with candidates hired from Harvard, Stanford, Princeton, MIT, Johns Hopkins University, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, Los Alamos National Lab, and many other top institutions. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube The Conversation Quick Links Contact Us MSU Home Page Centers & Institutes Campus Map Core Facilities & Resources Campus Directory Find an Expert The Graduate School MSU Libraries Student Research MI Spartan Impact Together We Will University Research Corridor Join Our Team Office of Research and Innovation 517-355-0306 Hannah Administration Building 426 Auditorium Rd. East Lansing, MI 48824-1046 Michigan State University Info Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University