Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Offices Vice President for Research Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Office of Biosafety Department of Comparative Medicine Human Research Protection Office & IRBs Sponsored Projects Administration Institutional Biosafety Committee Research Compliance Office of Research Proposal Development Office of Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property Development Core Facilities Funding Opportunities External Funding Opportunities Corporations & Foundations Grant Opportunities Additional Resources Supporting Impactful Publications Program News & Events Research News Our Team Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Funding Opportunities / Supporting Impactful Publications Program Supporting Impactful Publications Program A communication from the Provost regarding Supporting Impactful Publications: June 23rd, 2020 Dear Colleagues, Many of you have heard me speak about our commitment to enhancing the impact of the work of our faculty. One idea that has been met with enthusiasm is the idea of central support for open access publication in high impact journals. With that in mind, I am pleased to notify you of our new SIP (Supporting Impactful Publications) program. The Tulane SIP Fund covers publication fees for high impact open access publications for Tulane scholars who do not have grant or other funds available to cover these costs. Details including the guidelines, procedures and the application form are available at https://provost.tulane.edu/sip_application. Note that the manuscript must be accepted for publication but prior to publication in a high impact journal that offers an open access option, and you must make the case that the journal should be considered high impact for the manuscript in question (but journals with impact factor of at least 8 are automatically approved). A useful tool for exploring the impact factor of journals, and learning which offer an open access option, can be found here https://www.scimagojr.com/journalrank.php. This program is open to Tulane faculty, fellows, staff, students and trainees who are the corresponding author on a peer-reviewed journal article that lists Tulane University as their primary institutional affiliation. This program is administered by the Provost’s Office, and is co-sponsored by David Banush, Dean of Libraries and Academic Information Resources. Funds are limited and an application is required. For logistics, contact Program Manager, Natasha Coen (988-8998, ncoen@tulane.edu). We look forward to receiving your applications! Best, Robin Robin Forman Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost Professor of Mathematics Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue 200 Gibson Hall New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5261 www.tulane.edu/provost Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University