Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Human Research Protection and IRBs Information for Research Participants Information for Research Participants Should I Participate in Research? People have many different reasons for volunteering for a research study. Some of those reasons are to: Help find a cure for an illness. Help find ways to provide better care for sick people. Help gather information about how people think and behave. Help discover more about how the body and mind work together. Take part in a study with the hope that they themselves will get well or better. (There is no guarantee, though, that this will happen.) Opportunities for Research Participants ClinicalTrials.gov RecruitMe ResearchMatch Expand all Collapse all Research at Columbia University Columbia University is one of the top research institutions in the world. Thousands of studies are conducted by the university's faculty and research staff each year. Much of this research has led to important results that help us lead healthier and better lives. There are a wide range of areas where research can take place. These areas include research on health and medical issues, and research on ways of learning, and answers to person and social problems. What is Research? Research can be described as an investigation of an issue to learn more about it. It is usually funded by the government, private foundations, and/or drug companies with the hope that the new information will be useful to the public and to other researchers. Some research can only be done with human participants. Until the medicine or equipment is proven to be useful for people, it cannot be approved by the government for medical use. Not all research conducted at Columbia University is medical. Some researchers focus on issues related to human behavior or learning and others investigate complex social issues. What is Clinical Research? Much of the research that involves people is conducted by medical doctors, nurses, dentists, social workers, and other health professionals. Their work to find new medicines and treatments is called clinical research. What about Research with Children? It is important that children, as well as adults, be involved in research so that scientists can understand more about the health and behavior of children. The laws and regulations that apply to all research have special rules to protect children. Children under 18 years of age cannot agree to participate in research for themselves. Parents and/or guardians who are thinking about having their child involved in research are encouraged to talk with the researchers and to ask them as many questions as they may have. What is informed consent? Informed consent is a process. People who agree to participate in research must first understand and agree to volunteer based on the information provided to them by the researcher. That information must include details about the research, how long it will last, how many visits it will take, and all the risks and benefits. The Informed Consent Form must contain the names and phone numbers of the researchers and of the Institutional Review Board so that the participant can ask questions about the research or report any problems. What is the Institutional Review Board (IRB)? Research in which people will be asked to participate cannot begin until it has been approved by an Institutional Review Board (IRB). This group of people often includes doctors, social workers, nurses, scientists, and people from the local community. They all work together to make sure that human research is well planned and ethical. The IRB decides, when approving studies, that it is reasonable to ask people whether they want to be involved. Both before and during the research study, the IRB serves to protect the rights and welfare of research participants. It makes sure that any risks in the research study are as small as possible. The IRB also reviews each study while it is going on to make sure volunteers continue to be protected. Columbia University IRB If you have any questions about your rights as a participant in a research study, you may contact: Human Research Protection Office Institutional Review Board 154 Haven Avenue, 1st Floor New York, NY 10032 Telephone: (212) 305-5883 University Compliance Hotline Phone: 866-627-3768 Home Human Research Protection and IRBs Related Links Protocol Resources IRB Consultation Service Maintaining IRB Approval sIRB Review Process What Training do I Need? Human Subjects Protection Training Program Information for Research Participants Human Research Policy Guide Human Subjects Research Regulations The Revised Common Rule Human Research Protection Office and IRBs Directory and Contact Information Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close