Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer University of Houston The Big Idea Research and Innovation Scratching your head about research issues? Join the club... Menu Masthead Home About Topics University Research Explained What Went Wrong The Big Bang Startup Experience Perspectives Magazine Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Contribute Subscribe Main Content University Research Explained Changing The Model of Research November 22, 2021 By Claudia Neuhauser The proposed 2022 White House Budget — is more money the only answer? By Claudia Neuhauser, Ph. D. Associate Vice President for Research and Technology Transfer, Professor of Mathematics, University of Houston Brian Herman, Ph. D. Professor, Department of Biomedical Engineering and former … [Read More...] about Changing The Model of Research Featured Stories New Open Index of Scholarly Articles Helps Researchers Connect March 2, 2022 By Cory Thaxton We have all needed scholarly articles to cite in our academic careers. Now, there is a place where researchers can get millions of them, all on one site. Named after the Library of … [Read More...] about New Open Index of Scholarly Articles Helps Researchers Connect Eric Lander Resigns from OSTP Among Accusations of Disrespectful Behavior February 28, 2022 By Sarah Hill Fresh on the heels of an Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) integrity overhaul, its leader, Eric Lander resigned in early February. This doesn’t look particularly good for the OSTP, an … [Read More...] about Eric Lander Resigns from OSTP Among Accusations of Disrespectful Behavior Recent Posts How Small Business Incubators Help Startups Grow May 19, 2022 By Cory Thaxton If you plan to start a new business or already have but you don’t have an office or lab space, why should you consider working with a small business incubator? An incubator is an organization … [Read More...] about How Small Business Incubators Help Startups Grow Unintentional Plagiarism: Is it Avoidable? May 2, 2022 By Sarah Hill Plagiarism is the use of someone else’s words, ideas, or visuals as if they were your original work. Unintentional plagiarism is plagiarism that results from the disregard for proper scholarly … [Read More...] about Unintentional Plagiarism: Is it Avoidable? Expanding The Story of Your Research with Altmetrics April 20, 2022 By Sarah Hill Alternative metrics, or “altmetrics,” refers to the use of non-traditional methods for judging a researcher’s reach and impact. Being published in a peer-reviewed journal is surely a great feat. … [Read More...] about Expanding The Story of Your Research with Altmetrics Primary Sidebar Search the site ... University Research Explained What Went Wrong The Big Bang The Startup Experience Perspectives Subscribe Receive our monthly selection of top stories from The Big Idea. Name Email HP Get Connected Facebook Twitter Footer UH Division of Research The Division of Research supports sponsored projects, industry partnerships, and major initiatives to advance the faculty and students of the University of Houston. The University of Houston is home to 5 national and 6 university-wide research centers and a 74-acre campus for startups and industry-connected research. All site content and original artwork copyright © University of Houston System. All rights reserved. For republishing requests, contact thebigidea@uh.edu Visit UH DOR Recent Posts How Small Business Incubators Help Startups Grow May 19, 2022 Unintentional Plagiarism: Is it Avoidable? May 2, 2022 Expanding The Story of Your Research with Altmetrics April 20, 2022 Entrepreneurship: Where Do I Start? April 11, 2022 Dark Data March 23, 2022 Search Search the site ... Tags Research (10) Faculty (7) COVID-19 (7) Compliance (6) Startups (6) lab (4) lab safety (4) IRB (4) NSF (3) non-dilutive funding (3) © 2022 · University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page. Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies