Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Sponsored Projects Administration Subawards Subawards As the recipient of an award for a sponsored research project, the University may award financial assistance to a subrecipient to facilitate performance of, and payment for, specific work to be conducted for the sponsored project. A subaward may be made by the University as the recipient of a primary award or as the subrecipient of another institution’s primary award. Subawards are governed by the University’s Policy on Sponsored Project Subawards (the Subaward Policy). Subawards - Proposal Preparation (Columbia as Prime Recipient) Subawards - Award Management (Columbia as Prime Recipient) Inbound Subawards (Columbia as Subrecipient) Issuing Subawards to Columbia (information for outside entities) Subaward Definitions The following definitions will help you become familiar with subaward terminology and the issuance and acceptance of agreements. Expand all Collapse all Definitions Pass-through Entity (PTE) - also referred to as the Prime Recipient, Awardee, "the Prime", Grantee or Prime Grantee, or Lead Institution. A pass-through entity provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a sponsored program. Subrecipient - also referred to as the Subawardee, Collaborating Institution, Collaborator, or Subgrantee. A subrecipient receives a subaward from a pass-through entity (PTE) to carry out part of a sponsored program. Subaward - an award provided by a pass-through entity (PTE) to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to carry out part of an award received by the PTE. It does not include payments to a contractor/vendor. A subaward may be provided through any form of legal agreement. While the general term subaward is used interchangeably for both subawards and subcontracts, an actual subaward agreement is meant to carry out part of a prime grant award or cooperative agreement (as opposed to prime contracts). Subcontract - an award provided by a pass-through entity (PTE) to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to carry out part of a contract award received by the PTE. It does not include payments to a contractor/vendor. A subcontract may be provided through any form of legal agreement. While the general term subcontract is used interchangeably for both subawards and subcontracts, an actual subcontract agreement is meant to carry out part of a prime contract award (as opposed to prime grants or cooperative agreements, also known as financial assistance awards). Outbound subawards - are issued by the SPA Subawards Team when Columbia University is the prime awardee/pass-through entity (PTE) and another entity is the subrecipient. Inbound subawards - are received by Columbia University when Columbia will be the subrecipient, another entity is the PTE. Inbound subawards are reviewed by the assigned SPA Project Officer (not the Subawards Team). Inbound subawards follow the same process as when proposals are reviewed by SPA Project Officers. Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close