Jump to navigation Search form Search Give Contact Toggle navigation MAIN MENU Open Navigation Home About About Communications & Marketing Contact Directory Leadership RII Meet Yourself RII Org Chart Reports & Publications Research Magazine Research Support Announcements Research Support Home Development Administration Compliance Services COVID-19 Updates Frequently Asked Questions New Systems Information Request for Startup Space Students Undergraduate Research Opportunities Office of Undergraduate Research Industries Find a Researcher Tech Launch Arizona Arizona FORGE Tech Parks Arizona Facilities & Units Applied Research Building (ARB) Arizona Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory Core Facilities Grand Challenges Research Building (GCRB) Institutes and Centers Mission Integration Lab Museums Native Peoples Technical Assistance Office Office of International Development RII Business Center Impact Arizona Initiative for Resilience and International Development Civic Engagement in the Digital Age Convo with Cantwell Native American Advancement, Initiatives, and Research Societal Impact Technology and Research Initiative Fund (TRIF) Toward Achieving Racial Equity in Research Women of Impact News & Events News Events Tech Launch Arizona activities contribute to economic wellbeing University of Arizona Innovation Generated $1.6 Billion in Economic Output Over 5 Years Read the Story Research with a bold, distinctive and differentiated vision The Office for Research, Innovation and Impact supports the world-class research enterprise at the University of Arizona, which has more than $761 million in research activity. Our researchers continue to forge innovative pathways, form powerful collaborations and make remarkable discoveries. 109 109 total startups 3rd among top producers of Fulbright U.S. Scholars #1 in astronomy and astrophysics # 2 High Hispanic enrollment Top 4% of all U.S. universities in research and development 1,878 invention disclosures research_initiatives_header.jpg Building a Better Future Environmental Resilience Building robust interdisciplinary groups of faculty, students, and projects across campus, the University of Arizona leads the way in addressing the crises of climate and global environmental change. We show how it’s possible for life in arid regions to adapt and thrive, not only in Arizona but across the globe. Explore this topic Healthy Futures At the University of Arizona, personalized medicine, improved therapies, and better health technologies are advancing thanks to investment in biosciences infrastructure, research, and industry engagement. We attract world-class students to solve complex challenges of disease, hunger, water scarcity and quality, food insecurity, resource conservation, and climate. Explore this topic Space Exploration The University of Arizona has an unparalleled history of involvement in space missions dating from the founding of the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory and the first Ranger missions to the Moon, to the current exploration of the asteroid Bennu in humanity’s ongoing quest to examine the origins of the universe. Explore this topic Inspiration for Tomorrow’s Leaders Research at the University of Arizona informs and inspires the new possibilities of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Innovations point to new markets, products, and ways of operating that will shape the 21st century economy. We invent and prove potential solutions, envisioning how emerging, transformative tech can be deployed to benefit humanity. Explore this topic Data Science & Cyber Security The University of Arizona pursues breakthroughs in data science, data engineering, communications, mathematics and statistics that will not only speed the parsing of ever more data, but also enable the highest confidence, availability, and integrity of data to ensure resilient and highly trusted systems and discoveries. Explore this topic Economic Impact We develop innovation spaces where university and industry connect. As an important economic driver for the region, the University of Arizona includes a collective of research experts and a robust talent pipeline. We assist in diversifying the economic portfolio of the state by supporting local high-tech startups and shining a light on innovation. Explore this topic Corporate Engagement The University of Arizona’s mission is to improve the prospects and enrich the lives of the people of Arizona and the world through education, research, creative expression, and community and business partnerships. Connect with Corporate Engagement Services Arizona FORGE Arizona FORGE serves as a unique innovation community that combines start up acceleration with experiential student education. Visit the Website Tech Parks Arizona Tech Parks Arizona comprises three facilities: UA Tech Park at Rita Road, UA Tech Park at The Bridges, and The University of Arizona Center for Innovation. Visit the Website Tech Launch Arizona UArizona fosters a culture of commercialization through Tech Launch Arizona, the vehicle for moving inventions, technologies, and intellectual property from the laboratory into the marketplace. Visit the Website The Latest Research, Innovation & Impact News Want to see a moon rock? There's one in downtown Tucson Wednesday, May 25, 2022 A lunar rock collected during the 1971 Apollo 15 mission is on display until mid-August at the Alfie Norville Gem & Mineral Museum. It is the largest moon rock NASA loans to museums. Read the Story Udall Center for Studies in Public Policy hosts inaugural workshop for federal agencies May 24, 2022 At the UArizona Washington DC Center for Outreach & Collaboration, Udall Center for Studies in Public Policy in partnership with the Udall Foundation, hosted the first ever workshop in the United States focused on federal agency use of geospatial online tools for public participation. Read more UArizona innovation generated $1.6B in economic output over 5 years Wednesday, May 18, 2022 A new report indicates that startups and business generated through Tech Launch Arizona supported over 2,500 jobs and $561 million in labor income between fiscal years 2017 and 2021. Read the Story More News Stay Connected with Us on Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Events Support for Researchers Project Lifecycle Proposal Planning Proposal Planning Proposal Preparation Proposal Preparation Routing and Submitting Routing and Submitting Funder Review Funder Review Award or Review and Submit Award or Review and Submit Post Award Post Award Announcements Important Changes to Data Sharing Requirements are Coming for NIH Grants Link: Thursday, March 31, 2022 The NIH’s new Data Management and Sharing Policy will go into effect January 2023. This is an entirely new policy that will apply to all NIH-funded projects that generate scientific data. As a PI on a current NIH award (or an active applicant for NIH funding), we want to make you aware of this coming change and encourage you to begin preparing for it. University Libraries and Research, Innovation & Impact are actively developing resources to support you in this endeavor. Next steps Please review existing resources and preliminary guidance to prepare your current NIH grant(s) and any new proposals for the policy change. Under the new NIH policy, researchers are required to include detailed plans on how data will be managed and shared during the entire funded period, including: Data storage Access policies and procedures Preservation Metadata standards and distribution approaches You must submit a Data Management and Sharing Plan to comply with the new policy. Compliance with the submitted DMS plan will become a term of condition during the award funding period. More information For more information, please review the NIH DMS Policy resource webpage. For questions or to request a consult, email the Library Data Management team. We will provide ongoing updates to assist researchers and research assistants with this transition. COVID-19 Update – Research Restart Plan Phase 6 Link: Friday, March 25, 2022 Dear Colleagues, With the recent update to the face covering guidance and FAQ, we will transition to Phase 6 of the Research Restart Plan. Under this final phase of the plan, all types of on-site research are allowed. It is important, however, that we all remain vigilant in protecting the University community and continue to follow campus recommendations for testing, vaccination, and work arrangements. Face Covering Guidance The Research Restart Plan follows University's face covering guidance. Based on current public health conditions and aligned with CDC guidance, masks are recommended, but not required, in most indoor spaces including classrooms. We will continue to require that surgical masks or higher-grade masks be worn: in any building/facility that is operated by or affiliated with the University where patients or human research subjects participating in clinical research are seen in person; in locations where personal protective equipment (including masks) has always been required to maintain safety protocols for situations with high hazards, such as areas where regulated chemicals are used or stored and other laboratory settings; and inside a Cat Tran shuttle or any other public transportation provided by the University, as recommended by the CDC and TSA. Surgical masks are three-ply disposable masks. Higher grade masks include KN95 or KF94 masks. Locations and/or environments that require the use of respiratory protection (N95) must be enrolled in the University Respiratory Protection Program. Researchers are responsible for ensuring their staff – including employees, students and DCCs – and visitors use the appropriate face coverings and/or PPE for the setting. Voluntary use of N95 Respiratory Protection Use of self-supplied N95 respirators continues to be allowed, but individuals choosing to use an N95 must follow the UArizona Voluntary Use of Respiratory Protection During COVID-19 guidelines. Although employees voluntarily choosing to wear an N95 mask are not required to have their N95 mask fit tested, the University will offer N95 fit testing for faculty, staff or students who voluntarily choose to provide and wear their own N95 respirator. Contact Risk Management Services at 520-621-1790 or risk@arizona.edu to request an N95 fit test. RII will continue to monitor conditions and changes to University protocols and communicate the most updated information to this group. I am grateful for your thoughtful approach to continuing research as we mark the two-year anniversary of navigating the pandemic response. Elizabeth "Betsy" Cantwell Senior Vice President for Research and Innovation Updated UAccess Research (UAR) System Now Available Link: Tuesday, January 25, 2022 UAccess Research (UAR) has been updated and is now available for proposal routing, and other sponsored project modules. Thank you to the campus research community for all the cooperation and patience in completing three major system implementation projects in close succession! Thank you, especially, to the UAR Campus Experience Advisors for diligently representing the campus user perspective and providing support for campus users along with volunteer Campus Ambassadors. For information on using UAR, please consult the following resources: Video demos, instructional materials, and support contacts: See the Resource page for the UAccess Research Update (NetId required). Training and office hours: See UAR Update Training (registration required). Zoom training followed by virtual office hours: Days and times vary through Feb. 4 In-person office hours: Mondays from 10-11 a.m., Feb. 7 through Mar. 28 In-person office hours: Wednesdays from 2-3 p.m., Feb. 9 through Mar. 30 Zoom office hours: Alternating days and times, February through March As always, please check with your individual department and college Research Administration team for additional guidance and support. How will the UAR update affect you? New UAR location: The UAccess portal will be updated with the new UAR system at 9 a.m. on Jan. 25. To access the system now or update saved browser bookmarks, use the new URL: https://arizona.kuali.co/dashboard. Fully re-route proposals in the new UAR system by 5 p.m. on March 4 if the temporary Smartsheet proposal routing tool was used for approval and sponsor submission during UAR system conversion. Immediate updates: The University will receive security updates and new system features on a continuous basis. No more VPN: Say goodbye to your VPN woes. You will be able to log in with your UA NetID, password, and NetID+ authentication without having to connect through VPN. This is great for traveling faculty or those places where VPN access is blocked. Fewer routing stops: Lead unit pre-approval will no longer be required. Proposals will route simultaneously and immediately to investigators and department approvers. Convenient dashboard: The new dashboard will increase transparency by providing greater visibility to work in progress. The “proposals not routing” feature enables reviewers / approvers to see which proposals include them in the route path and will be routed to them, whether they are the Lead Unit or not. Search everything: Searching for what you need just got a whole lot more flexible. The dynamic Search Records feature scours all available fields for your specified words or numbers. For questions or more information, contact Sponsored Projects Services at sponsor@arizona.edu or UARHelp@arizona.edu. All Announcements FAQs Researchers ask great questions. We've done our best to answer them. Below is a random sampling of a few of these. I was selected to move forward with a submission. What happens now? Once you have received the “ticket” you should work with your department administrator and, if available, the RDS Associate designated to support the proposal development. All limited submissions submitted to an external funding agency or sponsor are handled through Sponsored Projects and Contracting Services. Topic(s): Limited Submissions Research Development What activities at the UA are impacted by export control laws and regulations? Export control laws and regulations affect various University activities including, but not limited to conducting research (sponsored and unsponsored), international travel, publishing research, procurement, hiring non-U.S. persons, sponsoring foreign persons (e.g., visiting scholars), collaborations with non-U.S. individuals or entities, international shipments, non-disclosure agreements, and certain services to embargoed or sanctioned countries. Topic(s): Export Control in a University Environment Export Control How do I find funding opportunities? We recommend that you take a proactive role in identifying relevant funding opportunities. To assist you, we have provided helpful resources including a list of hand-curated funding opportunities for Early Investigators, and a compilation of search databases, funding sources, and distribution lists. Topic(s): Early Investigators Research Development See all FAQs Research Facilities Centers and Institutes Transportation Research Institute The TRI is equipped with the interdisciplinary expertise necessary to address the challenges of an ever-evolving transportation ecosystem. transportation.arizona.edu Center for the Philosophy of Freedom The mission of the Freedom Center is to promote the understanding of the ideals of freedom and responsibility. freedomcenter.arizona.edu Arizona Space Institute The University of Arizona Space Institute (UASI) leverages the expertise of the university’s large space science community, advancing areas including space exploration, astrobiology, space situational awareness, and planetary defense. space.arizona.edu See all Institutes and Centers Core Facilities Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Facility The Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) facility provides high-resolution analysis of organic compounds, peptides, oligonucleotides, small biopolymers, and small proteins to elucidate the structure and conformation of complex molecules in solution. More about this facility Molecular Discovery Core (Phoenix) The vision of the Molecular Discovery Core (MDC) is to build a highly collaborative and state-of-the-art facility at the Phoenix Biomedical Campus to accelerate early-stage drug discovery in the Arizona research community with several instruments geared toward the analysis of biomolecules. This core supports a wide variety of research activities that depend on the detection and analysis of proteins, nucleic acids, compounds, bioactive molecules and biomolecular interactions. More about this facility > Genetically Engineered Mouse Models (GEMM) The Genetically Engineered Mouse Models Core (GEMM) provides a variety of mouse genetic engineering services. These services include vector design and construction, gene targeting and blastocyst injection for the production of gene-targeted mice, as well as vector design and construction and DNA microinjection for the production of transgenic mice. More about this facility See all Core Facilities Return to the top of this page. Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Support for Researchers Announcements FAQs Administration Compliance Development Services Log in Resources Directory Organizational Chart Campus Map Local Attractions Land Acknowledgement We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.