Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides New York Times Digital New York Times Search this Guide Search New York Times A Syracuse University Libraries guide to options for students, staff and faculty for access to current and historical New York Times content at Syracuse University. Digital New York Times New York Times Newspaper ProQuest TDM Studio (Text Mining) Public Communications Librarian New York Times Short video sharing access points for the New York Times Thanks to SU Libraries Video Intern, Benjamin Piers, for creating this Digital New York Times New York Times Digital Edition via Syracuse University Libraries: Access available to all current Syracuse University NETID holders, with @syr.edu email addresses Provides access to: New York Times content from 1851 to present, from the print and digital editions Digital journalism that includes videos, podcasts, interactive media and more, from mid-1990s to present Page image print edition content: via the Times Machine from 1851-2002 Note: PDF viewing/downloading of Times Machine content from 1923-1980 is limited to 5 per day Via New York Times app for 7 days If seeking article text and page imaged print edition New York Times back issues only, these are also available via the library's subscription to ProQuest News & Newspapers (including print editions beyond the end date of coverage by the Times Machine) Does not provide access to: Crossword Puzzles Note that access is limited to current NetID holders with @syr.edu accounts only, and will expire after four years for current faculty and staff. Student accounts expire in December of the anticipated graduation year entered when registering for an account. Registration Instructions - Digital New York Times To register for a New York Times Digital Edition account: Go to this registration page, and if off-campus, log in to the EZProxy page with your NetID. Click: Create Account Create a New York Times account using your @syr.edu address and a password of your choice. Do not use your NetID login/password. Note that access is limited to current NetID holders with @syr.edu accounts only. If you register as a student, enter your graduation year. After registering, you can access the New York Times directly (without going through the SU Libraries site) by going to nytimes.com or connecting via mobile app, if enabled. Please note the New York Times Terms of Service and Privacy agreements. If you are having problems registering or accessing your account subsequently, see troubleshooting instructions on this guide for "renewing an existing registration" OR submit the problem using the library's Electronic Resource Problem Report form OR contact Newhouse School Librarian, Michael Pasqualoni (315) 443-3715. (new as of 2021) Access will expire after four years for faculty and staff, and in December of the stated graduation year for students. New York Times does not email faculty, students, or staff with reminders about account expiration dates. Access does not apply to Alumni This university access is digital only and does not include print editions available to personal NYT subscribers Personal subscriptions for readers who desire print delivery can continue, but cannot ALSO use an @syr.edu email address for those accounts Continuing students with a change of graduation year should follow up directly with the New York Times to extend access. Students should contact customer support for academic subscribers at edu@nytimes.com OR use the general New York Times Contact Us page [and phone or email options listed under the heading for general contact channels]. Additional information: The New York Times in Education site provides information about educational resources available to account holders. Already have a personal account: It is not possible to use the same @syr.edu email address for both a personal and a Syracuse University Libraries digital New York Times account. Call NYT's Customer Service Department at 800-698-4637 to cancel a paid account that uses an @syr.edu email address, before registering for NYTimes.com access through SU's campus-wide site license. Visit NYT's contact us website to see additional options for contacting NYT regarding personal accounts. Renewing An Existing Registration - Digital New York Times Syracuse University Faculty and Staff: The access period for faculty and staff has been extended by NYT to four (4) years Syracuse University Students: Your access concludes in December of the anticipated graduation date year noted when you first registered for your account TIPS FOR RENEWING/ACCESS TROUBLESHOOTING For continuing faculty, students, or staff, here are steps to consider if your current registration for SU Libraries supported digital NY Times access needs renewal or is not working: Forgot password: Try using NYT’s “forgot your password” link when you login from nytimes.com OR NY Times in Education site: Visit the account activation page called NY Times in Education and select Syracuse University from the “find school” window OR Email NY Times customer support: Directly email NY Times customer support for academic subscribers at edu@nytimes.com and confirm with those representatives your status as a current SU student, faculty, or staff member Additional SU Libraries support: Those steps will work for most. If not, contact SU Libraries - Librarian for the Newhouse School, Michael Pasqualoni or report persistent access problems using the Library’s Electronic Resource Problem Report Form. Quick Links To Print Edition NY Times (via ProQuest) Back issue print edition New York Times content is available (without need for personal subscription) via Syracuse University Libraries: Proquest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times (1851 thru to within 4 to 5 years of the current date - full page image scans) Proquest Recent Newspapers: The New York Times (2008 thru to within 3 months of the current date - full page image scans) ProQuest (article text only up thru current date). ProQuest also collects some article text from the New York Times website (excluding multimedia elements). Ask Us! Ask Us! Live Chat Call Us: 315-443-4083 Text Us: 315-464-0744 Email us: libref@syr.edu Find a librarian Report an Electronic Resource Issue Policy on Access to Licensed Web Resources Suggest a Title Coronavirus Misinformation (via NewsGuard) Coronavirus Misinformation Center (NewsGuard Technologies, Inc.) Founded in 2018, NewsGuard is a for-profit venture that assigns a nutrition label assessment – and ultimately a color coded rating - to digital news sources. The inventory of dubious news websites tracked by NewsGuard has always been free to access NewsGuard is waiving its $2.95 personal membership fee for the duration of the COVID-19 crisis for those interested in downloading their full browser plugin (works on Chrome, Safari, Edge and Firefox browsers, and on Edge mobile browsers for iOS and Android devices) The tool can be applied for news website evaluation not limited to coverage of the Coronavirus Students and other researchers are encouraged to apply a wide assessment criteria when evaluating sources, and in most cases not limit their assessments or rankings to any single review source or service (seek out multiple points of view in multiple respected sources). See also the section of short online learning modules, under "Evaluating Information," within SU Libraries Credo Information Literacy Tutorials. These review key principles for assessing information sources. More about NewsGuard: Coverage of NewsGuard by Vox - Feb 13,2019 NewsGuard Profile in American Libraries magazine - Nov 1, 2019 NewsGuard Rating Process and Criteria “Why Trust Us?” >and see also, subpages identifying NewsGuard’s leadership team, advisory board and investors Next: New York Times Newspaper >> Last Updated: Apr 7, 2022 10:34 AM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/nyt Print This Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Communication, Economics, Journalism, Political Science and Public Administration Tags: digital journalism, new york times Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern