Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Research Funding Research Funding As an R1 Research University, Georgia Tech relies heavily on funding from federal agencies, private foundations, and state and local agencies to support our research efforts. Private industry and international sponsors are now have an increasingly important role, as well.  GT internal seed funding programs play a vital role in igniting research ideas that often translate into extramural research. Information about all of these funding sources is provided below. The Office of Sponsored Programs also provides information about resources for accessing support from these sources. Pivot is a comprehensive global source of funding opportunities available free to all Georgia Tech researchers. Researchers can search for funding opportunities or sign up for e-mail alerts based on areas of interest or specific sponsors. Keep in mind, once a potential funding source has been identified, all proposals submitted to an external funding source must be routed through the Office of Sponsored Programs before submission. The Office of Research Development can provide strategic guidance as well as practical support or the development of large-scale research funding proposals, as appropriate. External Funding Federal Agencies Federal Agencies offer a wide variety of funding opportunities and as a result provide significant support for GT science and engineering research. Federal programs support everything from single investigator basic science, to large-scale engineering centers and beyond. Here is a list of the primary agencies that traditionally provide support to our researchers. National Science Foundation National Institutes of Health Department of Defense (DARPA / IARPA / ARO / AFOSR / ONR) Department of Energy National Aeronautics and Space Administration Private Foundations Foundations support all types of science and engineering research activities including basic, translational, and applied research, professional development and postdoctoral fellowships. The most critical aspect of obtaining support, is to be sure that your area of interest is well matched to the mission of the foundation. The Office of Foundation Relations can assist you with all stages of foundation fundraising from prospect research, to cultivation, solicitation and stewardship.  State and Local Agencies The Office of Institute Relations is a great place to start if you wish to learn more about Georgia statewide and local community priorities and programs that you might be able to plug into. Corporate Sponsors The Office of Corporate Relations is committed to building strong partnerships between Georgia Tech and the corporate community. You can reach out to this team to learn more about companies with a demonstrated interest in working with our researchers to solve critical global issues. GT Internal Programs Seed Funding Seed funding programs provide the opportunity to test a novel idea and generate the preliminary data required to solicit extramural funding from sponsors. Campus-wide Seed Funding Opportunities Forming Teams and Moving Teams Forward Seed Grant Program General Seed Grant FAQ Limited Submissions Limited submission competitions are funding opportunities for which the sponsor limits the number of applications an institution can submit. Extra submissions may result in the rejection of all submissions from the institution. Therefore these opportunities often require an internal selection process to determine which proposal teams can move forward with an application.  The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research (EVPR) facilitates limited submissions  for Georgia Tech. Looking for something else? Go to Researcher Resources Index Have a question? Contact: vprdo@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN