Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA UDisclose Instructions for the UDisclose System AAA Instructions for the UDisclose System COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms The new UDisclose is an upgraded system that allows users to disclose all interests, not just conflicts of interests, and enables the quick and thorough review and management of conflicts throughout the institution. It is no longer isolated to research, as stated in the expanded COI policy, and is leveraged by Research Compliance, UHealth Compliance, and Audit and Advisory Services for review and determinations. Additionally, it is a one stop shop for faculty and staff as it is integrated with IBISResearch and will be integrated with the eProst System by the end of 2022. The policy articulates that all Covered Persons, on an annual basis, must: complete training, and complete a Disclosure Profile to disclose interests to UM, such as: Outside interests (including fiduciary responsibilities) Receipt of non-UM other support Foreign affiliations/income/support Non-UM Scholarly Activities (e.g., teaching & research) Non-UM “C”-suite positions and fiduciary responsibilities Financial interests of spouse and dependent children related to UM responsibilities, and with entities that do, or propose to do business with UM Has separate UHealth and Scholarly Activities sections Covered Persons, inclusive of a broad spectrum of the UM community, are required to access the UDisclose System to submit their Disclosure Profile (disclose their interests) and complete required training on an annual basis. After the initial disclosure, new and changed interests are entered/updated within thirty (30) days. A Disclosure Profile is the focal point of the UDisclose System. It provides a summary of discloser's interest and everything that was disclosed previously. A Proxy is a person who is authorized to act for a Covered Person. A Pre-Approval Request (when used by a school/college/department) allows you to submit a request to participate in certain non-UM activities, which is then reviewed by the appropriate individual before making a determination. The UDisclose System is accessible via the website at UDisclose.miami.edu. Click on the links below to access helpful information and UDisclose System instructions: UDisclose System Glossary UDisclose System Discloser 101 Training, a series of short videos, is available in the ULearn System (keyword search, “UDisclose) UDisclose Ancillary Reviewer Guide UDisclose System Ancillary Reviewer & Department Reviewer/Chair Training, a series of short videos, is available in the ULearn System (keyword search, “UDisclose”)that require UM to follow PHS regulations to receive their funding List of PHS and PHS-like funding entities that require UM to follow PHS regulations to receive their funding Contact Us If you have questions on how to use the UDisclose System, please call DSAM at the UDisclose System help line at (305) 243-0877. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices