Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Unmanned aerial vehicles (“UAVs”), also known as unmanned aircraft systems (UAVs) or drones, can be useful research tools. However, before you start flying, it is important to understand the Federal Aviation Administration’s regulations governing the use of UAVs in the U.S. as well as Columbia’s policy governing drone use on campus. FAA and UAVs in Columbia Research The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) considers the use of UAVs in university-related research to be “commercial use” and, therefore, regulated by the FAA. In 2016, the FAA issued the Small UAV Rule (Part 107), available on the FAA’s UAV Website. This rule permits commercial operation of small UAVs (< 55 lbs.) as long as operators abide by the rule’s required safety restrictions. These restrictions include, but are not limited to, a maximum airspeed of 100 mph and a maximum altitude of 400 feet above ground level. The UAV must remain within the operator’s visual line of sight; the UAV cannot be flown directly over people; and flights are limited to daytime or civil twilight operations only. UAVs can be flown in unrestricted (Class G) airspace without prior approval; however, additional approvals are required for flights within restricted airspace. Finally, UAV operators must obtain a Remote Airman Certificate before operating the UAV. A complete list of Part 107’s safety restrictions as well as information about how to obtain a Remote Airman Certificate is available on the FAA’s UAV website. If you propose to fly a UAV outside of the Part 107 restrictions, the FAA has included a waiver process. The operator must submit an application to the FAA requesting authorization to deviate from certain waivable restrictions. The FAA will then review the waiver request on a case-by-case basis. FAA Registration Requirement Apart from the FAA’s Small UAV Rule (Part 107), the FAA requires that all UAVs > .55 lb. be registered with the FAA. Most UAVs can be registered online. For more information on registering a UAV, visit the FAA’s registration website. Columbia University's UAV Policy If you’d like to fly your UAV on any of Columbia’s campuses, you must comply with Columbia’s policy on the use of UAVs on campus. The policy requires that UAV operators obtain approval from Columbia’s Department of Public Safety prior to flying a UAV on campus. For more information about Columbia’s policy and the approval process, see Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems on University Campus and Property, available in Columbia’s Administrative Policy Library. Other Regulations If you plan to use a UAV in Columbia research outside the U.S., additional regulations may apply. Local laws: Other countries regulate the use of UAVs in their airspace. Before you fly your UAV outside the U.S., you should be aware of and must comply with local laws. U.S. Export Controls: If you plan to send or hand carry a UAV outside the U.S. for use on a Columbia research project, U.S. export controls restrictions may apply. Prior to export outside the U.S., an export analysis should be conducted by Columbia’s Research Export Control Officer. Where to Go for Help Contact Columbia’s Research Export Control Officer – If you are interested in using UAVs in Columbia research activities If you are registering a UAV that will be used in Columbia research activities If you plan to export a UAV outside the U.S. for use on a Columbia research project If you have questions about the FAA’s Small UAS Rule (Part 107), if you will be using a UAV > .55 lbs. or otherwise outside the scope of FAA’s Part 107, or if you are interested in applying for a waiver from the FAA Home Office of Research Compliance and Training Contact Michelle Avallone, JD Director of Export Controls Office of Research Compliance and Training 212-851-9822 [email protected] Janique Cheesman, MS Assistant Director for Research Compliance Office of Research Compliance and Training 212-853-1686 [email protected] Related Links Anti-Boycott Anti-Corruption Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close