Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides Maps and Cartographic resources Home Search this Guide Search Maps and Cartographic resources: Home Come to the Map Room and travel the world. The collection has cartographic and reference materials in a variety of formats that cover the entire Earth. Home News & Other Links Sanborn / Fire Insurance Maps Digital ResourcesToggle Dropdown Digital - NY State, Cities & Counties Digital - Other States & Cities Digital - US Digital - International Air Photos Antarctica - photos & aerial photography Other Map Collections The Map Collection The Collections The Library's Map Room is the location for cartographic materials in a variety of formats. With a collection of over 200,000 sheet maps, 5000 atlases, 80,000 aerial photos, and 50,000 maps in microform, the map collection also has an expanding collection of maps in a digital format. The Map Room also has a collection of Sanborn fire insurance atlases, along with a teaching collection of globes and wall maps and has an extensive reference collection of gazetteers, place-name guides, geographical dictionaries, encyclopedias, bibliographies, directories, and guide-books. The Map Room has three large worktables for patrons to use. Scans of maps in print or from microform can be made from the two computers located in the workstation area next to the 3rd floor service desk. Also use the Virtual Map Room Tour to discover the what kinds of cartographic collections can be found in the Map Room. Searching for a Map or Atlas in the collection The maps, atlases and other cartographic materials are cataloged in the Classic Catalog or in SUMMON. A member of the staff will be glad to assist you with any questions you may have regarding the collections or finding the materials you need. Classic Catalog: To search only the map collection start by using the Advanced Search tab. Scroll down to Location and select E.S. Bird Library – MAPS from the drop down menu. Now enter your search subject terms and place names, etc. into the search boxes at the top to find maps and atlases SUMMON: Enter your search terms in the search box. When you see the list of results, look for the "CONTENT TYPE" in the facets list on the left. Click the "MORE ..." link under the "CONTENT TYPE" and then click the green check mark next to MAPS and then click the APPLY button at the top. You will now see a list of maps that match your search terms. Circulation Most maps can be circulated or checked out at the Maps/Documents Service Desk on the 3rd floor. A valid SU or SUNY-ESF ID is required. Atlases, Reference titles, and aerial photographs do not circulate. Please look for the map of the floor plan of the Map Room when you enter the collection where the various collections are located and a complete list of items that circulate. SU CAMPUS MAP Map Room Hours The map room is open the same hours as the third floor in Bird Library. Please check the HOURS page on the Libraries homepage. Other LibGuides of interest GIS - Geographic Information Systems Links to many online sources of data and maps Geography - Human and Physical Sources of information that focus on all aspects of geography What's in the Map Collection Atlases A wide range of atlases of the world and foreign national atlases, current and historical atlases of the US and New York State in paper and microform are available. Extensive Sanborn Atlas collection: Nation-wide digital coverage online (1867-1970). Additional years (1960-1990) on microfilm for MA, VT, CT, RI, PA, NJ, DC, and NY and NYC as well as paper for NYC (1916-1980). Topographic Maps Topographic series providing coverage for most areas of the world at a scale of at least 1:250,000 Comprehensive coverage of the United States, including all published U.S.G.S. topo maps at 1:250,000, 1:100,000, 1:62,500 and 1:24,000 Coverage for Canada and European countries at 1:50,000 Current editions of NOAA and NOS charts Thematic Maps Coverage of all parts of the world, especially North America, the United States and major cities. Subjects include: road maps, physical and biological sciences, human, cultural and political geography, economics, forestry, agriculture, manufacturing, technology, communications, trade, the military, and historical geography. Extensive coverage for New York state and the city of Syracuse. What Circulates in the Map Room Contact John Olson Email Me Contact: 358 Bird Library Individual appointments for in-depth reference inquiries are also welcome through MS Teams or Zoom. 315.443.4818 Social Media: Twitter Page Subjects: Earth Sciences, Geography, Maps and GIS, Government Information Next: News & Other Links >> Last Updated: May 11, 2022 2:48 PM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/Maps Print This Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Geography, Maps and GIS Tags: geography Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern