Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search NASA Astrobiology Unveils New Research Coordination Network at AbSciCon 2022 GTRI’s Cobb County Impact Showcased to Military Support Organization Faces of Research: Meet Diyi Yang HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Covid-19 and the Impact on Research Celebrating 30 Years of Sustainability at Georgia Tech “Thirty years ago not many folks were interested or thinking about sustainability. BBISS was. At Georgia Tech, we do cover many areas in sustainability, and right now after 30 years, BBISS has the history and the ability that can provide expertise to those that are seeking solutions.” Chaouki Abdallah, Executive Vice President for Research The Brook Byers Institute for Sustainable Systems (BBISS) is one of Georgia Tech’s 10 interdisciplinary research institutes. Learn More » $1.2 billion in research and other sponsored awards in FY21 $4 billion in economic impact on the state of GA $781 million in research awards received by GTRI in FY21 Research Next Learn more about a new strategy for the future of research at Georgia Tech. Faculty, researchers, staff and students at Georgia Tech are building a cohesive plan that assesses the world’s largest challenges. Strategic Initiatives At Georgia Tech, we create the most exciting areas of tomorrow’s research through our collaborations today. Learn more about research initiatives in artificial intelligence, quantum information systems, hypersonic technology, advanced manufacturing, pediatric technology, and the internet of things. Interdisciplinary Research Georgia Tech’s 10 interdisciplinary research institutes bring together scientists, engineers, and clinicians from various research areas, students, and partner organizations to work together to find answers to some of society’s most challenging questions Faces of Research Learn more about our Georgia Tech researchers and how they are pushing the boundaries of science and technology every day to improve the human condition. Podcasts Listen to the latest podcasts from Georgia Tech. Episodes range from learning about the development of Georgia Tech’s strategic plans to understanding the Covid-19 vaccine and severe storms research and its impact on regional weather prediction. Leadership Led by Chaouki T. Abdallah, executive vice president for research, Georgia Tech research is about executing on a mission to improve the human condition. Learn more about the leadership team driving the Institute’s research enterprise. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN