Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home 2021 Research News 2021 Research News Focus on Fossils: Paleobiologists to Unearth Ancient Megafauna in East Africa, Forecast How Humans and Climate Affect Wildlife Jenny McGuire plans to use the late Cenozoic fossil record in Africa — a span of 7.5 million years — to study the long-term relationships between animals, their traits, and how they respond to changes in their environments. The goal is to use the data to forecast future changes and help inform conservation biology decisions for the continent.… STAR Particle Tech Lures Venture Capital Funding Skin diseases affect more than 2 billion people, of all ages. These diseases can be congenital, infectious, degenerative, inflammatory, sometimes cancerous, and often are hard to treat. Drugs applied topically are poorly absorbed across the skin barrier, while oral or injected therapeutics can lead to unwanted side effects. But a medicinal skin… Office of Sponsored Programs Executive Director Rebecca Caravati to Retire Rebecca Caravati, a longtime Georgia public servant who is currently executive director for Georgia Tech’s Office of Sponsored Programs and interim vice president for research administration, has announced her retirement effective Dec. 31. For more than 25 years, Caravati served in finance and research administration for the University System of… Georgia Tech Student’s Microchip Startup Reduces Energy Waste, Amplifies Power Systems in 5G Space In 2015, Edgar Garay sent an email to a Georgia Tech professor asking to join his lab. “I want to go to your lab because I want to improve the efficiency of power amplifiers,” Garay wrote in his email to Hua Wang, Garay’s advisor and director of the Electronics and Micro-System Lab in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. That email… Researchers Lead Microelectronics Advances from Lab-to-fab, Bolstered by Synergy with GTRI A hotbed for semiconductor innovation, the Georgia Institute of Technology offers deep domain expertise in device and integration technologies, as well as high-assurance tools for chip security. The Institute, along with Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), leads in areas such as emerging materials/devices, innovative circuit/architectures, and… GTRI uses LIDAR to Improve Tracking of Aerial Systems Bullet Time, a visual effect made famous by the 1999 film, "The Matrix," has implications well beyond Hollywood. Researchers at the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) have developed a new optical tracking technology called Bullet Time that uses a LIDAR system to track small airborne targets – such as drones… Faces of Research - Meet Courtney Crooks Meet Courtney Crooks, Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) What is your field of expertise and why did you choose it? Although I have many interests within the field of psychology as evidenced through the various specialties that I have pursued throughout my professional career, my identity as a… Virtual Sensing in Predictive Maintenance Helps Boost Rotorcraft Availability Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques, Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) simulations and data analytics procedures are being used jointly to help improve the availability of a critical U.S. Air Force helicopter while reducing maintenance costs and extending how long the aircraft can remain in service. The… Georgia Tech Leads Effort to Strengthen State’s Defense Manufacturing Industry The global supply chain has been rocked by disruptions triggered largely by the coronavirus pandemic, resulting in a cascade of shortages on a host of products ranging from computer chips to medications. But supply chain disruptions also highlight the potential vulnerabilities in the U.S. manufacturing sector’s critical segments like defense.… Wavelet Technology Allows Measurement of Long-Distance Infrasound Phenomena that generate a type of low-frequency sound known as infrasound could become easier to detect and measure thanks to a new technique under development at the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). Infrasound, which cannot be heard by humans, is produced by tornados, earthquakes, explosions, wind turbines, the motion of large vehicles,… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN