Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home 2019 Research News 2019 Research News Tweaks Behind the Rebirth of Nearly Discarded Organic Solar Technologies A solar energy material that is remarkably durable and affordable is regrettably also unusable if it barely generates electricity, thus many researchers had abandoned emerging organic solar technologies. But lately, a shift in the underlying chemistry has boosted power output, and a new study has revealed counterintuitive tweaks making the new… Moths and Perhaps Other Animals Rely on Precise Timing of Neural Spikes Extracting nectar from flowers that may be dancing in the wind requires precise, millisecond timing between the brain and muscles. By capturing and analyzing nearly all of the brain signals sent to the wing muscles of hawk moths (Manduca sexta), which feed on such nectar, researchers have shown that precise timing within rapid sequences of neural… Tiny Magnetic Particles Enable New Material to Bend, Twist, and Grab A team of researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology and The Ohio State University has developed a soft polymer material, called magnetic shape memory polymer, that uses magnetic fields to transform into a variety of shapes. The material could enable a range of new applications from antennas that change frequencies on the fly to gripper… Armored With Plastic ‘Hair’ and Silica Shell, New Perovskite Nanocrystals Show Enhanced Durability Perovskite nanocrystals hold promise for improving a wide variety of optoelectronic devices – from lasers to light emitting diodes (LEDs) – but problems with their durability still limit the material’s broad commercial use. Researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology have demonstrated a novel approach aimed at addressing the material’s… El Nino Swings More Violently in the Industrial Age, Hard Evidence Says El Ninos have been very intense in our times, which stands to worsen storms, drought, and coral bleaching in El Nino years. A new study has found compelling evidence in the Pacific Ocean that the stronger El Ninos are part of a climate pattern that is new, strange and appears unique to the industrial age. This is the first known time that enough… Exoplanet Axis Study Boosts Hopes of Complex Life, Just Not Next Door “They’re out there,” goes a saying about extraterrestrials. It would seem more likely to be true in light of a new study on planetary axis tilts. Astrophysicists at the Georgia Institute of Technology modeled a theoretical twin of Earth into other star systems called binary systems because they have two stars. They concluded that 87% of exo-… Observing a “Cosmic Symphony” Using Gravitational Wave Astronomy Shrouded in mystery since their discovery, the phenomenon of black holes continues to be one of the most mind-boggling enigmas in our universe. In recent years, many researchers have made strides in understanding black holes using observational astronomy and an emerging field known as gravitational wave astronomy, first hypothesized by Albert… Metagenomics Unlocks Unknowns of Diarrheal Disease Cases in Children Using advanced metagenomics techniques, researchers have found that conventional culture-based lab tests may misdiagnose as many as half of the microbial causes of diarrheal diseases in children. The study, based on samples from Ecuadorian children, also found that a common strain of the E. coli bacterium may be more virulent than previously… Informatics Accelerates Design of Hybrid Membrane Materials for Chemical Separations Vast amounts of energy are consumed each year for chemical separation processes – a precursor to the production of everything from gasoline to food. A $1.7 million award from the National Science Foundation (NSF) will help a team at the Georgia Institute of Technology develop much cheaper ways to separate chemicals using membranes that could… Novel Solar Cells Arrive at International Space Station for Testing Five different types of solar cells fabricated by research teams at the Georgia Institute of Technology have arrived at the International Space Station (ISS) to be tested for their power conversion rate and ability to operate in the harsh space environment as part of the MISSE-12 mission. One type of cell, made of low-cost organic materials, has… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN