Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides Ukraine Home Search this Guide Search Ukraine: Home A guide of sources and links about the current crisis in Ukraine, and other sources on Ukrainian history and culture. Home News Databases Maps, Data, and More History Culture Submit Suggestions Introduction to this guide As we witness history unfolding before us with the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, there needs to be a free flow of information about what is happening, and to understand more about the people, culture and history of the Ukraine. This guide provides some avenues to learn more. Some of the links are updated daily while others are for seeking more in-depth information about Ukraine. To contribute more sources to this guide, please fill out the suggestions form. Image Credit: Statue of Berehynia, atop Independence Monument in Maidan Nezalezhnosti (Independence Square), Kyiv, Ukraine. By Amit just amit - Own work, CC BY-SA 4.0 Display in Bird Library There is a small display in Bird Library's Map Room on the 3rd floor of two maps, one of Ukraine (2007) and Kyiv (2004), as well as the National Atlas of Ukraine (2007) and the Historical Atlas of Ukraine. The maps are large and they show details and spatial relationships that a laptop or phone screen just cannot provide. Stop in and take a look. Local Syracuse Engagement and News SU News: Education, Action, Solidarity: A Rallying Cry to the Campus Community From the Student Ukrainian Club Syracuse.com: Few U.S cities are more Ukrainian than Syracuse Films about the Ukraine relationship with Russia To provide further context on Ukraine and its tense history with Russia, browse these twenty-five films through the SU Libraries' access to Kanopy. You can also access more films through Academic Video Online. Next: News >> Last Updated: Mar 31, 2022 10:15 AM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/Ukraine Print This Page Login to LibApps Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern