Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › OVPR Updates › OVPR Staff Forms OVPR Staff Forms OVPR Leave Process Employees and supervisors are mutually responsible for planning and scheduling the use of leave throughout the fiscal year. Supervisors are responsible for the overall planning, coordination, and approving of their employees' annual leave throughout the year so that the organization’s mission and employees' needs are met. Employees, in turn, are responsible for the timely coordination with their supervisors about leave throughout the year so that the organization’s mission and business continuity are met, and so that employees do not approach the end of the leave year with a significant amount of annual leave that must be used or forfeited. For the fiscal year starting July 1, 2021, please follow the below instructions for requesting annual leave and documenting the use of personal and sick time. Annual Vacation Leave Process: Employees must use the Quarterly Leave Request Form to request annual vacation leave in advance of each quarter (whether a partial, full, single or multiple days). Employees will submit the form to their supervisor (a new form will be provided for each quarter). Upon supervisor approval the form will be submitted to the Executive Director for review. The Executive Director will notify the employee and supervisor of final approval/denial. Requests for additions and/or modifications to quarterly annual leave are required to use the Alternative Leave Form. Quarterly Leave Request Cycle 1st Quarter Dates: July 1st – Sept. 30th Deadline for 1st Quarter Requests: June 1st Link to FY 22 Q1 Request Form 2nd Quarter Dates: October 1st – December 31st Deadline for 2nd Quarter Request: September 1st Link to FY 22 Q2 Request Form 3rd Quarter Dates: January 1st – March 31st Deadline for 3rd Quarter Requests: December 1st Link to FY 22 Q3 Request Form 4th Quarter Dates: April 1st – June 30th Deadline for 4th Quarter Requests: March 1st Link to FY 22 Q4 Request Form Personal and Sick Leave Process: Employees must use the Alternative Leave Form. Employees will submit the form to their supervisor. Employees will submit the form to their supervisor within one business day of returning to work following sick leave. Upon supervisor approval, the form will be submitted to the Executive Director for review. The Executive Director will notify the employee and supervisor of final approval/denial. Please refer to the Employee Handbook for more details regarding the use of all forms of leave time. For questions or concerns regarding the leave process, please contact me directly at kreinagel@temple.edu. In This Section About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple