Skip to menu Skip to content WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Menu Menu Close Research Home COVID-19 Funding Opportunities OR Suggestion Box! Research Strengths Achievements Statewide Impact WSU Research Admin Awards Events Centers, Institutes, facilities, and capabilities Centers, Institutes, and Collaborative Units Regulated Data Environment Facilities and capabilities Research Computing Libraries Office of Research Supported Centers and Laboratories Researcher Resources Ethics and Compliance Animals Involvement and Care Campus Vet Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Research Development & Funding Support & Operations Research Support and Operations Conflict of Interest WSU Cannabis Research Undergraduate Research Office of Research About Vice President/Vice Chancellor Research Misconduct Reporting Offices Partnerships Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Policies Authorship Determination Matching Funds for Equipment Ethics University Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems – Research Activity Faculty Resource Guide for Washington Public Records Requests National Level Reports Research Council Reports 120-day study CILs Taskforce Recommendations Innovation and Entrepreneurship Review F&A Report OR Blogs VPR Blog WSU Research Highlights Contact Us The Northwest Hydrogen Hub The Northwest Hydrogen Economy The Washington Edge Regional Clean Hydrogen Hubs: Fueling the Clean Energy Future CHARGE-The Consortium Charge Conference VPR Lecture – Dr. Rosalyn LaPier Close WSU Research About the Office of Research Strategic foundation for WSU innovation and discovery Office of Research Vision We support Washington State University’s vision of being one of the nation’s leading land-grant universities, preeminent in research and discovery, teaching, and engagement. Office of Research Mission The Office of Research supports the WSU land-grant mission by partnering with the University community and other stakeholders to advance, extend, and apply knowledge across the full range of scholarly disciplines pursued at WSU. WSU research, scholarship, and creativity advance new ideas that benefit the state, region, nation and world. The Office of Research fosters a culture of inclusion, openness, innovation, and entrepreneurship that leads to creative discovery and its application, including bringing innovation to the marketplace. We lead the WSU research community in conducting research in a safe manner that is also ethical and cultivates individual and institutional integrity, and is in compliance to state, federal and international applicable regulations and laws. The Office of Research serves the University community by supporting the research infrastructure needed for discovery to flourish and for researchers to collaborate effectively across campuses and disciplines. We work collaboratively and form partnerships with federal and non-federal agencies on research to advance society. Office of Research Values Collaboration and Partnership We work to advance the research enterprise through collaboration and partnership with all 11 colleges and University leadership among WSU’s six campuses. This collaboration and partnership is central to our operations. Together, we all strive to grow our research enterprise in a thoughtful and meaningful way. Research, Scholarship, and Creativity: We are committed to the pursuit of inquiry and discovery in all WSU disciplines; and to the creation and dissemination of knowledge for the public good. Service, Stewardship, and Accountability: We are committed to providing the range of services and infrastructure required to support WSU’s researchers in today’s fast-changing environment. We will be ethical and responsible stewards of the University resources that provide this support. Safety and Compliance: We are committed to building and supporting a safety mindset and culture across the entire University system. We lead the WSU community in the shared responsibility of conducting research that is ethical and in compliance to state, federal and international applicable regulations and laws. Quality, Excellence, and Thought Leadership: We are committed to providing quality and excellence in all of our efforts to advance WSU’s reputation as a thought leader of a top-tier research institution. Integrity, Trust, and Respect: We are committed to ensuring trust and respect for all persons in an environment that cultivates individual and institutional integrity in all that we do. Freedom of Expression: We are committed to the free exchange of ideas in a constructive and civil environment, including the canons of academic freedom in research, teaching, and outreach. Diversity and Global Citizenship: We embrace a worldview that recognizes and values the importance of domestic and global diversity, global interdependence, and sustainability. Land-Grant Ideals: We are committed to achieving the land-grant ideals of access, engagement, leadership, and service to bring the practical benefits of education and research to the state, nation, and global community. We will support the pursuit of research with broad societal impact. Responsibilities Provide vision, strategic direction, and priorities for WSU research Develop and implement the WSU Strategic Plan in collaboration with the WSU research team Provide policy and general guidance to all WSU campuses and units involved in sponsored research Manage system-wide operational activities in support of WSU research Organizational Chart Office of Research Support and Operations Office of Research Advancement and Partnerships Office of the Campus Veterinarian Office of Research Assurances Research Misconduct Communications Institutional performance assessment: development and tracking of metrics Advance the WSU research enterprise by developing institutional skill in proposal development and project execution, effective partnership with other WSU offices, fostering collaborations, and other means Manage selected centers, institutes, and core laboratories Represent WSU research and the University in internal and external interactions More Resources Economic Development Commercialization WSU Strategic Plan MyResearch Portal Donate Here! WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU