Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › ERA › FAQ FAQ FAQ | Electronic Research Administration What is my University AccessNet username and AccessNet password? I do not have a Temple University AccessNet Account OR I am TUHS/FCCC employee OR I am an Alumni. What do I do? How do I obtain access to the ERA application? Why can't I login to ERA? Go to top What is my University AccessNet username and accessnet password? OR I forgot my AccessNet username and/or password OR I don’t know my account information. An AccessNet Account allows you to use Temple University's web and computing resources like TUMail, TUPortal, TUBlackboard and provides a secure login to the ERA application. The best way to determine your AccessNet ID is to look for your information at: https://accounts.temple.edu; if you can login successfully, then your Accessnet account is active. Just click the X to exit out of the change password process at that point. For security purposes, Temple requires you to change your password every six months. Ten days and three days prior to your password expiration date, you will receive an e-mail reminder. You will receive another reminder, one day prior to your password expiration date. To change your password, go to the Manage Account tab on the CS homepage and click Reset password / security questions. If your password has already expired, reset it so you can continue to access Temple's online resources. Go to top I do not have a Temple University AccessNet Account OR I am TUHS/FCCC employee OR I am an Alumni. What do I do? You will need a Guest Account. A "Guest" is defined as an individual who is not a current Temple University employee, faculty member, or student. Guests can include, but are not limited to employees of the Temple University Health System, visiting faculty, visiting scholars, contractors, vendors, volunteers, volunteer faculty who are not considered "faculty of record," temporary agency employees, University Alumni, and summer program participants. Contact the business administrator for the University department/college you are performing research for, to login to the GARS system to be your Sponsor for Guest Access. The Guest Access Request System is available through TUportal. The department should request a guest account to be created using the GARS system for ‘Limited Guest Access’. For TUHS or Fox Chase employee’s, the email you provide on the Guest Info section of the form should be your TUHS or Fox Chase email address, not your personal email address. Make sure they include the 5 digit number for the Sponsoring Department that you will be doing Research with at the University. For Example, if this is for TUSM: Bioethics, then that department number will be 04780. Likewise, if it is for the Temple Hospital, the department number is 61000. University policies on system access can be found here: https://computerservices.temple.edu/topic/systems-access-only The following information is required and maintained for each Guest: Sponsor’s TUid and Email Expiration date of access Guest’s TUid (if previously or newly issued), date of birth, first name, last name, and contact information. For the Guest’s Contact personal email address; please use the @TUHS.temple.edu or @FCCC.edu email address of the Guest if they are employed of the Temple Health System. The last 4 digits of Guest’s Social Security Number. This information is needed to avoid generating a duplicate TUid in the chance that the Guest is a former Temple University faculty member, staff member, alumni, or student. For University Alumni, having an active AccessNet Account and email is not enough information for a profile to be created in ERA. You will also need to request a Guest account as described above, as well as the 5 digit number for the Sponsoring Department (also known as an Organization or Org) that you will be doing Research with at the University. Alumni are not automatically assigned a Department, thus the need for a Guest Access Request. Go to top How do I obtain access to the ERA application? To login to the ERA application you need to have a Temple University AccessNet account. A select group of Employees are automatically imported into ERA daily from Temple’s Banner HR system. For those who aren’t imported into ERA automatically, you will notice the first time that you login to ERA with your AccessNet account, you well then see some of your profile data based on your Banner HR, STUDENT or GUEST information on the screen. Upon successfully clicking Continue, you will be added automatically to our import process for the upcoming night. All accounts will get activated in ERA the next day by 8 am. If there is an issue with your department or other information appearing on the web page, Please fill out the text box to indicate any incorrect information (however, if there is incorrect information, you will need to contact the respective HR or Student office to get the information changed; as ERA only consumes information already available in TUportal). Please Note: All ERA profiles are required to have an active TUmail or TUHS/FCCC email account. For TUHS/FCCCC guest users; the process will use the TUHS/FCCC email account if it is listed as the email you provide on the Guest Info section of the GARS form within TUportal. More information on screen prompts and error screens can be found here. Go to top Why can't I login? An AccessNet account is required to login to the ERA portal. We have the following error message that will be displayed if there are errors when you try to login to eRA: Error 102 or 102b: If you see the above error message, then please double check your Accessnet Username and TUsecure Password. If you have difficulties or have forgotten your password then please go here: https://accounts.temple.edu. Go to top In This Section ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple