Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Funding Opportunities The Office of Research focus is on making key investments in the UC research enterprise that will impact our local, national and global partners to advance multi- and trans-disciplinary initiatives in existing and emerging communities of research excellence at UC. SPIN: Funding Opportunity Search Engine The University of Cincinnati offers SPIN to provide a platform to search for Funding Opportunities. It features customizable queries for funding opportunities that match exactly what you are eligible to receive. To access this tool go to spin.infoedglobal.com while on a UC network. In order to create custom searches you must create an account using the instructions found here. You can see the SPIN Quick Start and the User Guide for more information. External Partner Opportunities InnoCentive InnoCentive offers a comprehensive suite of externally and internally focused programs, providing the methodology, technology, expert support and problem-solving network for you to crowdsource solutions to important problems. The range of offerings is comprehensive with a focus on providing actionable solutions. Externally focused programs tap some of the world’s smartest problem solvers to provide new ideas and solutions while internally focused programs allow you to draw ideas and solutions from internal crowds and invited audiences. View Opportunities InnoCentive opportunities Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) University Partnership Like never before, universities today face serious challenges in securing research funding and attracting students into scientific and technical fields necessary to compete in a global arena. ORAU addresses these challenges by providing research grants; promoting opportunities for collaboration among government, universities, and private industry; and creating smart partnerships for innovation and advances in scientific research and education. View Opportunities ORAU University Partnership Funding Opportunities Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021