Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Clinical Trials Office Clinical Trials for Patients Clinical Trials for Patients Interested in joining a clinical trial? Click to RecruitMe for more information. Welcome to the Clinical Trials Office Web site at Columbia University Medical Center! As you consider treatment options for yourself or a loved one, you may be considering participation in a clinical trial. But what is a clinical trial? Why do people participate in these studies? The information and links below will provide you with more information about clinical trials: what they are, how they work, and other resources that may be available to you. What is a clinical trial? A clinical trial is a study designed to answer a specific question about the safety or efficacy of a drug, a device, or other interventions. These studies provide opportunities for patients to volunteer for cutting-edge treatments, which allow doctors to examine the benefits and risks of using these drugs. Clinical trials are designed to find out if a drug works and is safe for people to take. Why participate in a clinical trial? People choose to participate in clinical trials for reasons as individual as they are. Clinical trials can either enhance treatment, or be a treatment option. Some people seek clinical trials when other treatment options have not been successful. Here are just a few of the many reasons people choose to participate in these studies: Many, if not all, treatment drugs and tests are free to study participants. Successful clinical trials may improve the length and quality of life for study participants. Clinical trials provide an opportunity to take positive action by contributing to the understanding of a disease or condition and by furthering treatment options available to others. Patients in successful clinical trials are the first to benefit from these cutting-edge treatments. To search for clinical trials at Columbia University Medical Center, please visit recruit.cumc.columbia.edu. [email protected] Home Clinical Trials Office Clinical Trials for: Patients Investigators Sponsors Related Links Contract Negotiations Budget Negotiations Finance Regulatory Guidance RecruitMe - Join a Clinical Trial! Cost Estimate Forms Research Pharmacy Spanish Translation Center (STC) Regulatory Assistance Clinical Research Systems Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close