Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Dartmouth Library Research Guides Dartmouth Library Guides Newspapers and News Home Search this Guide Search Newspapers and News Home Contemporary Newspaper and News Historical Newspapers and News Contemporary International Newspapers and News Television and Radio Archives Guides, Companions, and Encyclopedias Librarian Wendel Cox Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: 180 Berry (Research & Instruction Services) HB 6025 Baker-Berry Library Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Subjects: English and Creative Writing, Government, History, Law, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Newspapers and News Contemporary Newspaper and News Collections Nexis Uni Full-text resources on current and general news from around the globe in English and other languages. Factiva Global and multilingual full-text current and general news and newspapers. ProQuest central The largest single periodical resource available. Highlighted Resources PressReader A remarkable array of full-text newspapers and magazines from the United States and around the world. Selections in English, Spanish, French, Chinese, and other languages. Ethnic newswatch Ethnic NewsWatch is a full-text collection of the newspapers, magazines and journals of the ethnic, minority and native press in the United States, published 1990- . Current Digest of the Chinese Press A digest of Chinese press materials in English. The digest aims for breadth and a comprehensive look at coverage. Current Digest of the Russian Press. A weekly selection of carefully translated Russian-language press. Retrospective to 1949. Historical Newspaper Collections Chronicling America A vast publicly-accessible full-text database representing many -- but not all -- states with coverage largely prior to 1923. ProQuest Historical Newspapers Select historical newspapers for national, regional, and local events. Coverage includes the United States, China, Britain, India, and Canada. America's Historical Newspapers Numerous American newspaper titles. Extensive geographic and chronological coverage. Contemporary American Newspapers USA Today Wall Street Journal (Web-Based Subscription via Dartmouth College Library) Wall Street Journal (Full-Text Databases) New York Times (Web-Based Subscription via Dartmouth College Library) New York Times (Full Text Databases) New York Post Los Angeles Times Washington Post Minneapolis Star Tribune Newsday Chicago Tribune Boston Globe New Hampshire Newspapers Valley News (West Lebanon, NH/Digital) Valley News (West Lebanon, NH/Print and Microfilm) Concord Monitor (Concord, NH) New Hampshire Union Leader (Manchester, NH/Microfilm) Contemporary English-Language International Newspapers Financial Times: Multiple Platforms Leading financial and business publication available on multiple platforms; current and historical content. Financial Times: Web Edition One of the worlds leading business news organizations, providing essential news, comment, data and analysis for the global business community. Dartmouth users must register here using your @dartmouth.edu email address. Haaretz (Israel): PressReader The most recent 90 days of the newspaper. Stable and reliable access to content of the most recent print editions. I strongly recommend PressReader for daily readers of Haaretz. Extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz (Israel): Web-Edition Haaretz's website. Access to Dartmouth's subscription has been extremely erratic. We continue to press the newspaper for effective customer support and hope for a resolution of these problems in the near future. Please, immediately report any problems to the creator of this research guide and inquire about alternative access. I strongly recommend PressReader for daily readers of Haaretz. Extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz (Israel): Newsbank Access World News Collection. Newsbank's archive of content, retrospectively, to 2014. Extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz (Israel): Factiva Factiva's archive of content, retrospectively, to 2016. Extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel and the Middle East. Television and Radio Archives Vanderbilt Television News Archive Extensive indexing of contemporary content with video available from NBC television news broadcasts. Manage Your Research Zotero A free citation and research management tool created for historians by historians. Mendeley A free citation and research management tool with particular strength with PDFs and recommendations based on your research history. Last Updated: Mar 9, 2022 4:09 PM URL: https://researchguides.dartmouth.edu/newspapers_and_news Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Newspapers and News Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy