Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides Video Guide Video Collections Search this Guide Search Video Guide A guide to identifying, locating, and viewing video collections. Video Collections Featured Collections About Our Collections Searching for Video Borrowing Physical Video Media Video Equipment Video Use and Rights Digitization Service Accessibility Can't find it? Need help? Not able to find a video title you need? Contact a subject librarian or submit a request for new titles via the SU Libraries Suggest a Title form. Featured Collections Kanopy To access titles, click on LOG IN TO SYR or WATCH THIS buttons at bottom of screen, and not LOG IN at upper right of screen. If you cannot find a title on Kanopy, please use the SU Libraries’ Request a title form Academic streaming video collection containing educational titles as well as U.S. and international feature films. Some titles include transcripts and closed captioning. The platform video player is WCAG-compliant. Academic Video Online Streaming videos, including documentaries, newsreels and programs, interviews, and performances, on a wide range of subjects from providers such as CBS, Universal, and The Open University. Swank Digital Campus Streaming video titles, including feature films, on a variety of subjects, historic and current, from a number of production companies. About Our Collections Syracuse University Libraries collects video content to support the teaching, research, and creative needs of the campus community. These span many topics, disciplines, and genres, including but not limited to: Documentaries, lectures, interviews, and educational films for any and all disciplines Case studies and technical instructional videos for a variety of professional skills, including counseling & therapy, acting and music masterclasses, lab procedures & techniques, architectural & engineering design, software skills, and more Newsreels, advertisements, and other mass communications media Feature films, art films, and television series for cultural study, design study, and critique Stage works and musical performances, such as operas, plays, concerts, and dance works Unique institutional, corporate, and personal recordings within archival manuscript collections Our collections have grown over many decades and include the following formats: 30+ databases with streaming video content, totaling nearly 100,000 titles, accessible from both on and off campus 16,000+ physical recordings in our circulating collection, held on BluRay, DVD, and VHS Archival recordings on film and magnetic media, held in our Special Collections Research Center Next: Searching for Video >> Last Updated: Jan 31, 2022 11:59 AM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/video Print This Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Advertising, Communication, Film Studies, Humanities, Performing Arts, Social Sciences, Video Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern