The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors Search Our Site: Search Menu Research Showcase Research Offices Office of Research Support and Compliance (RSC) Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) Office of Innovation and Economic Impact Office of Industry Engagement (OIE) Office of Technology Commercialization (OTC) Research@UT Units & Centers Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Postdoctoral Services Libraries Research TRACKS Search Our Site: Search Research Core Facilities Interim Research Core Facilities Coordinator Ruth Sogas-Paramio rsogasparamio@austin.utexas.edu 512-232-0866 A research core facility is a shared research facility that houses specialized scientific instruments and provides expert consultation and services to investigators. These facilities charge their users predetermined, University-approved rates on a cost recovery basis in exchange for access to state of the art equipment that is generally too expensive for individual users to purchase or maintain. Access to equipment and services is rendered on an equitable basis across the institution and facilitates research across several colleges/schools. The fundamental requirement of a research core facility is that it needs to enhance research at the University, which can be measured by an increase in the number of research grants funded, in the quality of papers published and/or in the retention and recruitment of faculty. The University of Texas at Austin has a wide range of core research facilities across campus that are listed below in alphabetical order: Animal Resource Center (ARC) The Animal Resources Center (ARC) oversees the care and use of vertebrate animals utilized as part of the research and teaching activities of the University and serves as a source of expertise and support for investigators and the administration on all issues related to laboratory animals. Learn More Genomics Sequencing and Analysis Facility (GSAF) GSAF provides “next-generation” sequencing (NGS) services for comprehensive genome-scale analyses of DNA or RNA and conventional “Sanger” sequencing services for longer reads of cloned inserts or PCR products. The GSAF delivers the highest quality data and value across a broad range of methods used for life science research. Learn More Biomedical Imaging Center (BIC) The Biomedical Imaging Center at the The University of Texas at Austin is an interdisciplinary, multi-methods facility specializing in non-invasive neuroimaging. The core of the center is a new Siemens Skyra 3T MRI scanner used by many researchers for studies of human perception, memory, decision-making, and behavior. Unique emphases at the bic include a strong connection to supercomputing resources at the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC), real-time fMRI, high-resolution / 3D visual presentation, and support for developmental studies. Learn More Microelectronics Research Center (MRC) The MRC laboratories reach users from many different fields: electronics, optics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, as well as chemical, mechanical, and petroleum engineering. Lab users are both from universities and corporations. The MRC is more than a clean room with a comprehensive set of advanced nano-fabrication equipment – it is a community of scientists who work together to build advanced technology products and knowledge. Learn More Microscopy and Imaging Facility The Microscopy & Imaging Facility provides extensive resources for light microscopy, electron microscopy, flow cytometry and cell sorting. We are dedicated to providing access to both standard and high-end instrumentation to all level of users, from all disciplines across campus. We offer both assisted use and training on instruments, as well as consultations to help users best utilize the available equipment. Learn More Mouse Genetic Engineering Facility (MGEF) The mission of the Mouse Genetic Engineering Facility (MGEF) is to generate, archive and distribute genetically engineered mice for researchers at UT Austin. The services provided by the MGEF include: CRISPR and embryonic stem cell microinjection, embryo and sperm cryopreservation, in vitro fertilization, recovery of frozen embryos and rederivation of mice to pathogen-free status. Learn More Proteomics The Proteomics Facility has two state-of-the-art Thermo Orbitrap Fusion mass spectrometers to deliver quantitative and qualitative proteomics and protein modification analyses. Self-service instruments are available for researchers to use for IR based protein quantitation, FPLC separations and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry measurements. Learn More Quadrupole ICP-MS Lab Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) is principally used for rapid, precise and accurate trace element (<1000 ppm) determinations in liquid and solid samples, but other applications include isotopic determinations and speciation studies. The power of modern ICP-MS resides in its ability to rapidly measure trace elements at very low detection limits (to sub parts per trillion levels) as well as minor and major elements (at parts per million levels) in the same analytical run on suitably diluted samples. Learn More Targeted Therapeutic Drug Discovery & Development Program (TTP) The Targeted Therapeutic Drug Discovery & Development Program (TTP) provides researchers with access to cutting-edge technologies and expertise to enable the translation of their research into new treatments for cancers. The goal of TTP is focused on assisting cancer scientists and clinicians by utilizing a truly integrated approach of targeted molecular drug discovery, uniting every key discipline to achieve their goals in a single platform. Learn More Texas Materials Institute (TMI) A vital part of TMI’s mission is to provide UT-Austin with the instrumentation and infrastructure needed for state-of-the-art materials research. To fulfill this mission, TMI manages a variety of facilities that are supported by Ph.D.-level managers. The facilities include thin film and nano/micro fabrication, x-ray scattering, scanning, transmission electron, and atomic force microscopy, surface and bulk spectroscopy, thermal analysis, and electronic and optoelectronic testing. Learn More Home Resources for Researchers Faculty Development The Navigator Research Collaborations Research Highlights Honors and Recognition About Messages from the Vice President Contact Us FAC 426 512-471-2877 Email Us PI Book Researcher Responsibilities Policies Research IT UT Research Management Suite Research Misconduct FAC Technology Rooms Reservations Home Resources for Researchers Research Core Facilities Return to top of page Animal Resources Center Applied Research Labs Austin Technology Incubator Bridging Barriers Bureau of Business Research Center for Biomedical Research Support Center for Identity Energy Institute IC2 Institute Oden Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences Texas Advanced Computing Center UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader See more below...