Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Research Compliance › Export Control Export Control Overview Temple University is fully committed to compliance with export control laws, a complex set of Federal laws and regulations that govern how physical items, technology, information and data may be exported from the United States or shared with foreign persons within the United States. Export controls are designed to protect U.S. national security, to further U.S. foreign policy goals, and to maintain U.S. economic competitiveness. Research and other activities at Temple may be subject to export controls, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), implemented by the U.S. Department of State, and the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), implemented by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC), which is part of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is responsible for administering and enforcing economic and trade sanctions against certain nations, entities, and individuals. Export Control at Temple The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) is responsible for Temple University’s adherence to Export Control regulations. OVPR coordinates with stakeholders from around the university to ensure the university community has the resources, training and regulatory guidance necessary for export control compliance. These resources include: Restricted Party Screening (RPS): OVPR conducts RPS to determine if an organization, individual or country is restricted from receiving export-controlled items in addition to other restrictions that require review prior to engaging in a transaction. OVPR uses a software system that scans against U.S. government restricted party lists and other databases to identify such restrictions. All potential transactions with foreign persons and entities should be submitted for RPS using exportcontrol@temple.edu. Export Control Training: OVPR offers training using the CITI Program. CITI training offers general export control training and tailored content for key functions of the university. Training requirements based on your role at Temple can be viewed here. Access to OVPR’s CITI training program is available here. Please review login instructions here and plan for approximately one hour per module. View an Export Control Quick Reference Guide here. Export Control Advisory Committee (ECAC): ECAC is comprised of representatives from key university functions that are responsible for export control compliance. ECAC advises OVPR on the implementation of policies and procedures, provides subject matter expertise based on each member’s area of responsibility and advises on Temple’s export control program operations. Policies and Procedures OVPR issued an Export Control Policy (available here) to provide the Temple community with an understanding of export control laws and the associated roles and responsibilities for maintaining Temple’s compliance. The policy approved by ECAC includes: Temple’s policy is to stay under the safe harbor of Fundamental Research Exclusion (FRE) as defined by ITAR (22 CFR § 120.11(a)(8)) and EAR (15 CFR § 734.8) Defined roles and responsibilities for faculty, principal investigators, administrative offices and other members of the Temple community to maintain compliance with export control laws in consultation with the Export Control Manager (contact below) The Institutional Official (Temple’s Vice President for Research) is the designated official responsible for export control at Temple and represents the university for any export control matters (e.g. self-disclosures, licenses) Any restricted research must be approved by OVPR and may require a technology control plan to ensure any export-controlled item at Temple is managed in accordance with the law. Questions Visit our FAQ page on Export Control as an additional resource and please don’t hesitate to contact exportcontrol@temple.edu or Temple’s Export Control Manager Dwayne King (215-707-7819, dwayne.king@temple.edu). In This Section Work Environment Export Control Export Control FAQ's Export Control Policy Export Control Training Timeline CITI Export Control Courses Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple