Advisory Board ZPH virtual sessions ZPH Workshop May 16-17 Menu About People Harvard Team Envision® rating system Research Gulf Sustainable Urbanism SUGAR (Sustainable Urban Governance through Augmented Reality) The Business Case for Planning Sustainable Infrastructure: It Pays! Economic Process Tool IDB Infrastructure 360° Planning Sustainable Cities Next Generation Infra Water Information Tool Publications Events Past events Contact Join us for ZPH Workshop: Sustainable Infrastructure for Climate Action (in-person or online) May 16-17 The Zofnass Program cordially invites all to join us for our in-person/hybrid ZPH Workshop: Sustainable Infrastructure for Climate Action on … Read more... Join our next virtual session: ZPH Research: Climate Action at the Project Level. Lecture by Prof. Spiro N. Pollalis April 13 at 11 am ET The Zofnass Program cordially invites you to join our next session, ‘ZPH Research: Climate Action at the Project Level,’ given … Read more... Prof. Pollalis moderates panel at UNECE Mayors’ II Forum side event ‘Localizing the SDGs: Voluntary Local Reviews in the UNECE region. Experiences and good practices.’ April 5th at 1:30 pm CET (7:30 am ET) Free registration On April 5th Prof. Pollalis moderates a panel at a side event of the Mayors’ II Forum of 2022 titled … Read more... Join our ZPH Virtual Session: The Gordie Howe International Bridge – Envision Platinum. Sustainability along the Windsor-Detroit trade corridor on April 1 at 11 AM ET The Zofnass Program cordially invites you to join our ZPH Virtual Session: The Gordie Howe International Bridge – Envision Platinum. … Read more... Join us for ZPH Virtual Session on the sustainability of VTA Berryessa Transit Center – Envision platinum. Thursday 3/24 at 10:30 am ET via Zoom The ZPH cordially invites you to join us for the ZPH Session: Berryessa Transit Center, Envision Platinum – Assessing Sustainability and … Read more... Join our ZPH Virtual Session (1/20/2022 at 11am EST): Designing Community Greenway Infrastructure – the Swamp Rabbit Trail Extension in Greenville, SC We cordially invite you to our first ZPH Virtual Session of the year: Designing Community Greenway Infrastructure – the Swamp Rabbit … Read more... WSP invites applications to Emerging Growth Partnership Program due Dec.3 WSP, Sustainable Infrastructure Advisory Board (SIAB) member invites applications to their Emerging Growth Partnership Program due December 3, 2021. WSP’s … Read more... Congratulations to first prizes: Resilient Hub and Heal + : A regenerative design and implementation framework for localizing SDG in Covai! ZPH congratulates all accepted submissions and the teams winning first prizes: Resilient Hub and HEAL + : A regenerative design … Read more... Join us for ISI/ZPH Online Conference: Equitable & Sustainable Infrastructure. Delivering Merit & Climate Resilience. Nov.17-18 We cordially invite you to join our online fall conference Equitable and Sustainable Infrastructure. Delivering Merit and Climate Resilience on November 17-18, 2021. The conference … Read more... ZPH invites submissions to our open Call for Boards/Posters and Media, deadline extended November 1, 2021. Deadline extended: November 1, 2021 The ZPH and ISI invites conference attendees and students to submit a board, poster or … Read more... Join us for ZPH Session: Cooling cities. Climate Adaptation Design to Extreme Heat on Nov. 5 at 11 am EST ZPH Session: Cooling cities. Climate Adaptation Design to Extreme Heat on November 5, 2021 11:00 am Read more... Join us for ZPH Session (September 24 from 11am EST) Designing Equitable Green Infrastructure with Mission-based Communities in St. Louis We cordially invite you to join our upcoming ZPH Session: Designing Equitable Green Infrastructure with Mission-based Communities in St. Louis, MO. The … Read more... GSD Public lecture by Spiro Pollalis, “Sustainability and Climate Change: From Science to Design” on October 4, 12pm EST We cordially invite all to join us on October 4 from 12pm to 1:30 pm EST for: GSD Public lecture … Read more... Save the date for ISI & ZPH Virtual conference Equitable and Sustainable Infrastructure. Delivering Merit and Climate Resilience. November 17-18, 2021. Please join us for our virtual fall conference in partnership with the Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI): ISI & ZPH … Read more... IUCN World Conservation Congress – Infrastructure and Nature events (live-streamed) – September 4-9 The ZPH, as part of the Infrastructure and Nature Coalition, has been planning a series of events on infrastructure and … Read more... ZPH Session: Offshore Wind – Rising to meet energy sustainability challenges, led by VHB. July 9th 11am EDT We cordially invite you to join our upcoming virtual session: ZPH Session: Offshore Wind – Rising to meet energy sustainability challenges led by … Read more... ZPH Session: How climate is changing Italy – Presentation of the book “Il clima che cambia l’Italia” by author Roberto Mezzalama from Golder and the SIAB The Zofnass Program cordially invites you to join our upcoming virtual session: How climate is changing Italy – Presentation of … Read more... Join next ZPH Session: Decarbonizing with H2 Power on May 7th 11am EDT The Zofnass Program invites everyone to join our upcoming virtual session on Friday, May 7th from 11 am to 12:30 … Read more... ZPH Session on Nature and Health: Green Indoor Infrastructure, April 9 at 11 am EDT Read more... ZPH Virtual session: Infrastructure and Challenges related to Sustainable Aviation Fuels at Airports, March 25 at 11 am EDT (8am PDT) We invite you to join our upcoming virtual session: Infrastructure and Challenges related to Sustainable Aviation Fuels at Airports on … Read more... “Post-Pandemic Local Governance” presentation by Prof.Pollalis at the Center for Local Governance at Prince Sultan University Prof. Spiro Pollalis is invited to give a presentation on “Post-Pandemic Local Governance” in webinar organized by The Center for … Read more... Design in the Digital Age. Technology, Nature, Culture Conference (7/2021) Book of Proceedings The international conference “Design in the Digital Age. Technology, Nature, Culture” organized by the Italian Society of Architectural Technology (SITdA), … Read more... Case Study on the Champlain Bridge Deconstruction launched ZPH is pleased to announce the publication of the Champlain Bridge Deconstruction case study that was done in conversation with … Read more... ISI & ZPH Virtual Conference: Shovel-Worthy Ideas For A Fresh Start, Nov. 18-19 Emerging from a turbulent year, rife with systemic racism and a global pandemic, infrastructure will be at the forefront … Read more... ‘Engineering with Nature’ webinar, keynote Prof. Forman on Nov. 5. ‘Infrastructure and Nature’ webinar series ZPH in partnership with the Infrastructure and Nature coalition, made of more than 20 organisations to convene the Infrastructure and … Read more... Gulf Sustainable Urbanism Virtual Book Launch and online sessions Architecture and city-building in the Gulf region has a continuous, partly fabled history stretching back more than 7,000 years. … Read more... ZPH collaboration in the Sustainable Urban Governance through Augmented Reality (SUGAR) research project The Zofnass Program collaborated on the Sustainable Urban Governance through Augmented Reality (SUGAR) research with the Cyprus University of Technology … Read more... Prof. Spiro Pollalis online conversation ‘Pandemic and the challenges to the City’ at 2020 Lahore Literary Festival July 17th Prof. Spiro Pollalis presented on ‘Pandemic and the challenges to the City’ with Prof. Attiq Uddin Ahmed at the Lahore … Read more... The world after COVID-19 In this tragic time, suffering for the COVID-19 emergency adds up to the concerns about social stability and the future … Read more... ISI & ZPH virtual workshop: The Envision Playbook: Inspiring Expanded Implementation of Sustainable Infrastructure (March 23-24) The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure and the Zofnass Program are excited to announce that we will be moving forward with … Read more... The ZPH Workshop: Sustainable Infrastructure for Preventing Climate Change on Nov. 4-5, 2019. On November 4-5, 2019 at Harvard GSD, Room 112 join us for the ZPH Workshop: Sustainable Infrastructure for Preventing Climate … Read more... ZPH Workshop: Towards Establishing “The Business Case for Planning Sustainable Infrastructure”: Insights from Infrastructure Cases (April 17-18) April 17-18, 2019. At the Zofnass Program at Harvard, ongoing research on “the Business Case for Planning Sustainable infrastructure” indicates … Read more... United Nations Environment Assembly launches Resolution on Sustainable Infrastructure On March 13, 2019, the United Nations Environment Assembly launched a resolution on Sustainable infrastructure. The ZPH has been involved … Read more... Prof. Pollalis is invited panelist to give expert opinion at UNECE ‘Days of Cities’ in the Palais des Nations, Geneva. On April 8 Prof. Pollalis participates in UNECE ‘Days of Cities’ providing expert opinion at Session 3: ‘Smart Tools in … Read more... Prof. Pollalis featured speaker at Lahore 2019 Literary Fest presenting ‘Doxiades’s Ekistics in Pakistan: from the 1960s to today’ with Shahid Zahid On Sunday February 24, Prof. Pollalis was a featured speaker in the Lahore Literary Festival. He presented on a panel … Read more... Prof. Pollalis participates in the Visiting Committee Architecture Jury at the College of Environmental Design, KFUMP, in Dahran, Saudi Arabia. On March 12-13, 2019 Prof. Pollalis was part of the Visiting Committee Architecture Jury reviewing graduate projects in the College … Read more... Prof. Pollalis, invited speaker by the Chairman & Executive Committee of the Institute of Architects Pakistan, to present ‘Doxiadis in Pakistan. The Genesis of the Islamabad and Karachi Master Plan’ at the Mohatta Palace Museum. On February 26, 2019, Prof. Spiro Pollalis participated in conversation with architect/planner Mokhtar Husain about the work and legacy of … Read more... Zofnass Program Workshop: Innovations for a Sustainable Infrastructure. Nov. 12-13 The Zofnass Program held a workshop on November 12 – 13, 2018 at Harvard University: Innovations for a Sustainable Infrastructure. … Read more... Prof. Pollalis in Roundtable ‘Infrastructures and Urban Sustainability: Challenges and Opportunities on the Ground’ in collaboration with University of Geneva. On October 2, 2018 , Prof. Spiro Pollalis participates in the University of Geneva Roundtable that brings together experts on … Read more... “Infrastructure Innovations as Solutions to Environmental Challenges” presentation by Prof. Spiro Pollalis at the International Environment House in Geneva. Infrastructure Innovations as Solutions to Environmental Challenges Read more... Prof. Pollalis addressed students of Tongji University on “Planning Sustainable Cities” in Geneva. On Tuesday September 4, 2018, during his visit to the International Environment House in Geneva, Prof. Pollalis addressed a group … Read more... Join us at Smart Cities NY for workshop “Island in Crisis: Incubating Innovation in Puerto Rico’s Recovery to meed SDGs” This year, we are proud to announce a continued partnership with Smart Cities New York (May 8-10, NY), where a … Read more... Launch of the Envision® v3 Rating System for Sustainable Infrastructure The Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure announces the launch of the 3rd version of the Envision® rating system for sustainable … Read more... Zofnass Program Workshop: Making the Business Case for Planning Sustainable Infrastructure ZOFNASS PROGRAM at HARVARD UNIVERSITY WORKSHOP Making the Business Case for Planning Sustainable Infrastructure Date: Monday & Tuesday, March 19-20, 2018 … Read more... ENR Webinar: Planning Sustainable Infrastructure September 20, 2017, 2 PM ET Credits: 1 AIA LU; 0.1 IACET CEU Four years after helping launch the Envision infrastructure sustainability rating … Read more... Zofnass Program Workshop: Business Case for Sustainable Infrastructure, April 3-4, 2017 Read more... Prof. Andreas Georgoulias at B20 Conference on RBC and AC in Infrastructure Development Dr. Andreas Georgoulias was an invited panelist in the B20 Conference on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption in Infrastructure Development that took … Read more... Planning Sustainable Cities and Envision® featured in article highlighting Autodesk’s commitment to sustainability Karen Weiss, Senior Industry Strategy Manager for Civil Infrastructure Owners at Autodesk published an article highlighting Autodesk‘s commitment to sustainability. Weiss was … Read more... Prof. Pollalis in the formal reception of President Obama in Athens Prof. Pollalis made part of the formal reception of President Obama in Athens, Greece, with the Prime Minister Tsipras, the Mayor … Read more... Engineering News-Record (ENR) features article on Planning Sustainable Cities and SIAB members ‘Harvard Program Pushes Sustainable Infrastructure in Urban Planning’ by ENR ENR, premier engineering and construction news reporter, published an article … Read more... Envision dedicated course at Harvard Extension School There is an upcoming online course dedicated to the Envision Rating System offered through the Harvard Extension School starting January … Read more... Seminar: Sustainable Planning: Following Doxiadis’s Legacy, by Prof. Pollalis (Nov 1, at 6pm) The Harvard Mahindra Humanities Center and the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure would like to invite you to the following seminar… Read more... Planning Sustainable Cities Conference, November 3 & 4, 2016 The Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure is pleased to host the Planning Sustainable Cities Conference. The conference aims to present an infrastructure-based approach to city planning, an analytical framework for urban sustainability, focusing on the services and performance of infrastructure systems… Read more... Article at Kennedy School’s Data-Smart City Solutions, “Data-Driven Insights on Urban Water Systems” Yannis Orfanos, research associate at the Zofnass Program, wrote about “Data-Driven Insights on Urban Water Systems: The Zofnass Information Tool for the City of Chelsea, MA”. The article was hosted by the Data-Smart City Solutions of the… Read more... Yannis Orfanos presented paper and chaired session at the Symposium for Architecture and Urban Design in London, May 16-18, 2016 Yannis Orfanos, Sang Cho, Spiro Pollalis co-authored the peer-reviewed paper “A Method for Data-Driven Insights on the Nexus of Green Infrastructure, Water System, and the Urban Environment”. The paper was presented… Read more... Harvard China Fund Annual Symposium at Harvard Center Shanghai, May 17 & 18, 2016 This symposium is jointly organized by the Center for Health and the Global Environment at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure at the Harvard Graduate School of Design with generous sponsorship from the Harvard China Fund. The… Read more... Lecture about the Zofnass Information Tool at the Belmont Stormwater Working Group, April 28, 2016 Yannis Orfanos and Sang Cho, researchers at the Zofnass Program, were invited by the Belmont Stormwater Working Group to present the Zofnass Information Toolon the Urban Water System of Chelsea MA (April 28, 2016). The Belmont Stormwater… Read more... Cristina Contreras, speaker at World Bank Group. IFC’s Advisory Panel on Business and Sustainability Roundtable “Insurance and Resilience”. April 26, 2016 What are the gaps that must be addressed to increase mobilization resources around resilience? How to accelerate delivery of innovative products for the private sector companies… Read more... Infrastructure 360º Awards 2016: Models of sustainability in Latin America The Inter-American Investment Corporation (IIC), the private sector arm of the IDB Group, announced on April 15th the winners of the 2016 Infrastructure 360 Awards. This is an initiative that identifies and rewards the best sustainability practices in Latin America and the Caribbean. This year… Read more... Infrastructure Resilience II Workshop at GSD & HBS, Apr. 4 & 5, 2016 This Zofnass Workshop will continue our exploration of the intersection of Envision®, resilience, and infrastructure finance. Day 1 at GSD (Gund Hall Room 112): Session 1: The Use of Envision® in Infrastructure Projects (Part I). Session 2: The Use of Envision® in Infrastructure Projects (Part II)… Read more... Dr. Andreas Georgoulias is a keynote speaker at Accelerating sustainable infrastructure investments at IDB roundtable Dr. Andreas Geourgoulias is a keynote speaker in the roundtable ‘Accelerating sustainable infrastructure investments at IDB – Presentation of results of Envision case studies’, which is jointly organized by IDB Infrastructure… Read more... Prize on Water Policy at the MIT Water Night 2016 challenge We are happy to announce that Yannis Orfanos, research associate and Sang Cho, research assistant, representing the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, won the 2nd prize at the MIT Water Night 2016 challenge on the Water Policy category. The prize concerns the research on urban water system and green infrastructure… Read more... Dr. Andreas Georgoulias attends Annual Meeting of Senior Infrastructure Officials and Symposium for Infrastructure Governance at the OECD Dr. Andreas Georgoulias, Research Director of the Zofnass Program, joined the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (www.oecd.org), in two invitation-only events in Paris, namely the: Symposium on Governance… Read more... A data-driven approach on urban water management presented at MIT Water Club Sang Cho, research assistant and Yannis Orfanos, research associate at the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, presented the research methodology behind the Zofnass Information Tool on the Urban Water System of Chelsea MA. The scope of the tool is to provide information about… Read more... White House press release mentions Envision in commitments on the American Business Act on Climate Pledge Envision is a part of the specific commitments made from 154 companies that have signed the American Business Act on Climate Pledge to demonstrate their support for action on climate change and the conclusion of a climate… Read more... Prof. Spiro Pollalis’ meeting with Saudi Arabia government officials Prof. Spiro Pollalis visited the major and the government of the Asir province in Saudi Arabia to present the Envision Rating System for Sustainability and the Planning Guidelines for Sustainable Cities. Prof. Pollalis also talked about sustainability to the… Read more... Harvards Tips for Hosting a March Madness Party If you are a big basketball fan, then you might be excited about March Madness. If this is the case, … Read more... Cristina Contreras discusses sustainable infrastructure for emerging economies at the Economic Policy Forum in Beijing, 2-6 November 2015 There is no question that rapid changes are happening in our society and policymakers are working to adjust this reality to a desirable sustainable economic growth. The Economic Policy Forum that took place in Beijing during 2-6… Read more... Infrastructure Resilience Symposium at HBS & GSD, Nov. 2 & 3, 2015 This symposium will focus on urban and regional resilience, as the next step of sustainable planning. It will bring together public officials, infrastructure engineers, planners, design professionals and academics to share next generation perspectives on urban resilience, focusing on… Read more... Zofnass Lecture series: Civic Technology + Urban Planning. The State of the Landscape by Cristina Garmendia, HKS MPP ’12 Learn about the current state of the civic technology and its influence on urban planning, and future opportunities for open data and digital engagement to change the shape… Read more... Research associate Yannis Orfanos presented the paper “An Integrated Performance Analysis Platform for Sustainable Architecture and Urban Infrastructure Systems” in eCAADe 2015 conference in Vienna Yannis Orfanos, research associate at the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, presented at eCAADe 2015, the 33rd Annual Conference on Education and research in Computer Aided Architectural Design in Europe… Read more... Zofnass Program research team contributes with essay “Information Infrastructure for Urban Planning” to Harvard GSD’s journal New Geographies Zofnass Program’s Yannis Orfanos, Eleonora Marinou, Vicky Sagia, and Prof. Spiro Pollalis contributed to New Geographies 07: Geographies of Information with the essay “Information Infrastructure for Urban Planning”. The book… Read more... Meet Aubry, the Artificial Intelligence Marketing Breakthrough. Individuals have already started to adopt “artificial intelligence.” A recent study from Strategy Analytics showed the number of intelligence devices … Read more... Envision™ Tool Moves Project Sustainability Beyond Buildings Recent article published by ENR (Engineering News-Record) elaborately discusses the impact of Envision™ Tool in sustainability of infrastructure beyond buildings, and how it is being… Read more... ISI Announces New Envision® Review Board The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) announced on April 30, 2015, the formation of the Envision Review Board (ERB) to oversee the ongoing development of ISI’s Envision sustainable infrastructure rating system, initially launched in 2012. The ERB will hold its first meeting during April 30 – May 1, 2015, in Washington… Read more... Bilingual publication on Infrastructure 360º Awards launched in Busan, Korea and in exhibition at Gund Hall Our latest publication titled Sustainable Infrastructure in Latin America: Infrastructure 360º Awards represents the first year of the Infrastructure 360º Awards initiative in collaboration with the Inter-American Development Bank. This multi-authored bilingual edition… Read more... IDB Announces Winners of 2015 Infrastructure 360º Awards Projects in Brazil, Chile, and Mexico have won the 2015 Infrastructure 360º Awards, which showcase leadership in climate and environment, social impact, governance and innovation. Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) President Luis Alberto Moreno delivered the awards to three companies as part of the second… Read more... ISI announces fist Envision® award in Canada: Grand Bend AreaWastewater Treatment Facility, Ontario The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure announced Envision (TM) Platinum Award for Grand Bend Area Wastewater Treatment Facility in Ontario. It is the first ISI Envision-verified project in Canada. This project was also presented at the Zofnass Program… Read more... Zofnass Program Symposium on Water Infrastructure, February 26-27, 2015 The symposium, titled ‘Water Infrastructure – Next Generation Planning – Perspectives on Urban Water Management’, took place at the Harvard Graduate School of Design on Thursday 26 and Friday 27 February… Read more... Dr Andreas Georgoulias published an article in UNDP’s CEDRO introducing Envision in Lebanon After the invitation from UNDP’s CEDRO center in Lebanon, Dr. Andreas Georgoulias published an article introducing Envision and its potential for sustainable energy in Lebanon and the MENA region… Read more... Dr. Andreas Georgoulias talks in the financial newspaper ‘Naftemporiki’ about the Greek economy for 2015 Dr. Andreas Georgoulias wrote an article on the Greek economy for 2015 for the Greek daily financial newspaper Naytemporiki. The article was published on Monday, January 12th, 2015… Read more... ISI Announces First Government Agency to Credential 100 Envision Sustainability Professionals The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) announced today that the Los Angeles County Department of Public Works in California has become the first government agency in the nation to credential 100 of its personnel as Envision™ Sustainability Professionals… Read more... Prof. S. Pollalis and Ms. Vicky Sagia contribute their expertise on urban sustainability to the City of Athens Prof. S. Pollalis, Zofnass Program Director and Ms. Vicky Sagia contributed pro-bono their expertise on urban sustainability to the City of Athens, which was selected to be part of the 100 Resilient Cities initiative by the Rockefeller Foundation on December 3… Read more... Zofnass Program Symposium on Energy Infrastructure, October 27-28, 2014 This symposium was a collaborative platform that brought forward thinking minds of public officials, infrastructure engineers, planners and design professionals and academia to share “next generation” perspectives on sustainable Energy Infrastructure… Read more... Tarrant Regional Water District Receives ISI Envision™ Silver Award The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) announced that the Tarrant Regional Water District (TRWD) of North Central Texas has earned the Envision™ sustainable infrastructure rating system’s Silver award for their Line J, Section 1 Pipeline project. The pipeline was designed by Freese and… Read more... A Malaysian ministerial delegation and members of the Construction Industry Advisory Board of Malaysia visited the Zofnass Program to explore best practices in Sustainable Infrastructure Planning and the Envision™ Rating System, as the emerging Industry Standard in the USA On 12 September 2014, the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure hosted the Honorable Datuk Fadillah bin Hj. Yusof, Minister of Works, Malaysia, heading a ministerial delegation, and Dr. Judin Abdul Karim, Chief Executive of the Construction Industry Development Board of Malaysia… Read more... Los Angeles County’s Sun Valley Watershed Multi-Benefit Project receives ISI’s highest sustainable infrastructure award – Envision™ Platinum The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) announced that the Sun Valley Watershed Multi-Benefit Project in Los Angeles County, Calif., has earned the Envision™ infrastructure rating system’s Platinum award – the highest level attainable in the Envision system. The L. A. County Board of Supervisors accepted… Read more... Next Generation Infrastructure for Sustainable Environments research team visits MASS DEP, Chelsea City officials, and MWRA On Monday June 23, 2014, Richa Shukla and Judith Rodríguez from the Next Generation Infrastructure for Sustainable Environments research team met with Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection Agency in their Boston office to learn about their… Read more... Envision™ features in GreenBiz LEED for roads: Greener infrastructure gains momentum. Snaking 1.7 miles through the mountains of west Denver, the Eisenhower Tunnel, at 11,158 feet above sea level, represents the highest point of the U.S. Interstate Highway system. But nearly 60 years since President Eisenhower initiated the greatest public… Read more... Envision™ part of recommendations in ‘Making the Grade’ report: A national six-point plan to regain america’s infrastructure leadership ‘Making The Grade’ recently launched a report to the public at the National Press Club, Washington DC. ‘Making The Grade’ represents the consensus of many who attended the meeting ‘Executing a Sustainable Infrastructure Vision’… Read more... 12th Latin American Leadership Forum in Infrastructure at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia Following the great success of the Infrastructure 360º Awards in 2014, the call for applications 2015 was initiated in the 12th Latin American Leadership Forum in Infrastructure at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, on June 10-12, 2014. This unique opportunity presented to many incoming applicants… Read more... Envision™ rating system workshop at IDB’s headquarters The Infrastructure and Environment Sector (INE) and Division of transportation (TSP) together with the Institute of Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) in collaboration with the knowledge and Learning Sector (KNL), hosted a workshop focused on the fundamentals of Envision™ methodology due to the increasing… Read more... Zofnass Program participates in the 5th Global Infrastructure Basel Summit in Switzerland Prof. Andreas Georgoulias, research director of the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, presented at the 5th Global Infrastructure Basel Summit in Basel, Switzerland, on May 28th, 2014. Georgoulias spoke about the importance of sustainability metrics and the potential positive synergies… Read more... Zofnass Workshop, May 19-20, 2014 Zofnass Program hosted another exciting SIAB workshop at Harvard GSD on May 19-20 2014. Bill Bertera, President & CEO of Institute of Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) Paul Zofnass & Joan Zofnass along with members of the Zofnass Sustainable Infrastructure Advisory Board engaged in a productive feedback… Read more... Infrastructure 360º Awards Ceremony at Salvador de Bahia, Brazil The Infrastructure 360º Awards initiative started more than one year ago with the call for applications announced at the 11th Latin American Leadership Forum in infrastructure in Mexico City. Twelve out of the sixty total applicants were selected for a detailed assessment based on Envision rating system… Read more... Envisioning the future: Rating system helps infrastructure projects meet long-term sustainability goals Envision is the result of a joint collaboration between the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure at the Harvard University Graduate School of Design and the Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI). The ISI is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization that was founded by the American Council of… Read more... IDB holds a round table discussion on Sustainable Infrastructure The Latin American and Caribbean region is experiencing a period of rapid urbanization, applying pressure to the region’s infrastructure – the buildings, roads and services necessary for modern society to operate smoothly. To help address these challenges, the Inter-American Development Bank has approved … Read more... Zofnass Program research associates participate in the 7th Global Leadership in Infrastructure Forum in NYC Cristina Contreras (ENV-SP) and Hatzav Yoffe (MLA 2013, ENV-SP), research associates at the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, presented recent work from the 2014 Infrastructure 360 Awards at the 7th Global Leadership in Infrastructure Forum in New York… Read more... Prof. Spiro Pollalis lectures in Jeddah for GSD Executive Education Prof. Spiro Pollalis presented on February, 26 to a group of Saudi real estate professionals in Jeddah a GSD Executive Education course, organized by Rena Fonseca and Prof. Bing Wang. Prof. Pollalis linked privatizations, real estate development and sustainability, and presented the Envision rating… Read more... Zofnass research team for Next Generation Infrastructure visits Riverkeeper in Ossining, NY Paul Gallay, President Riverkeeper, Tracy Brown, Water Quality Advocate & Sara Lupson, met with Zofnass team members (Yannis Orfanos, Judith Rodriguez & Richa Shukla) at their office in Ossining, NY. They provided a comprehensive overview of Riverkeeper’s Infrastructure campaigns… Read more... Envision™ update by Jennifer Rivers (ENV SP, LEED AP O+M), Technical Director, Envision™ Rating System at Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure The 3 projects that have completed Veriﬁcation and earned project awards are: the William Jack Hernandez Sport Fish Hatchery in Anchorage, AK earned Gold (HDR), the Snow Creek Stream Environment Zone Restoration in Placer County, CA, earned Platinum (CDM Smith), the South Los Angeles… Read more... Prof. Spiro Pollalis gives the main keynote address at the Jubail 2nd City Planning Forum 2014 Jubail 2nd City Planning Forum 2014 is currently taking place in Jubail Industrial City in KSA, organized by the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu (RCJY). Prof. Spiro Pollalis gave the main keynote address that was followed with the opening ceremony of the exhibition at the… Read more... Prof. Spiro Pollalis participated with Harvard Faculty at the Contemporary South Asian City Conference in Karachi, Pakistan The current explosive growth of South Asian cities was the impetus for the Contemporary South Asian City Conference on January 9-12, 2014 in Karachi, Pakistan, where Rahul Mehrotra (chair and professor of urban planning and design)… Read more... South L.A. Wetland Park receives Envision™ Platinum Award from the Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure The Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI) announced today that the South Los Angeles Wetland Park in Los Angeles, California, has earned the Envision™ Platinum award—the highest level attainable in the ISI Envision sustainable infrastructure rating system. The South Los Angeles Wetlands Park is the first… Read more... Zofnass Workshop, January 23-24, 2014 The two-day workshop with SIAB members, that took place in Harvard Business School on January 23-24, 2014, covered the following two main topics: 1. Zofnass Economic Process Tool. This is a demonstration tool that quantifies three credits out of the Envision™ rating system from three different categories: Quality of Life, Natural World… Read more... Zofnass Program awarded Surdna Foundation grant for research on Sustainable Environments The Surdna Foundation has awarded the Zofnass Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, directed by Prof. Spiro Pollalis, a grant of $300,000 for 2 years. The purpose of this project is to perform applied research for the Urban Water Management infrastructure… Read more... Zofnass research presentation to the 5th Harvard/Poli-USP Collaborative Environmental Engineering Field Course Research Associates Hatzav Yoffe and Richa Shukla presented recent work of the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure in the fifth Harvard/Poli-USP collaborative environmental engineering field course. The two weeks course Urban Adaptation to Climate Change: Resilient Cities is an ongoing… Read more... Sustainable infrastructure: the Zofnass (En)vision The largest indoor sport fish hatchery in North America is the first ever recipient of the Envision™ Gold award for sustainable infrastructure. The award ceremony on July 24 that honored the William Jack Hernandez Fish Hatchery of Anchorage Alaska was the culmination of 6 years of collaboration by the Zofnass Program… Read more... Zofnass Program participates at the NYC DEP Envision Training Anthony Kane from Zofnass Program presented our work on Envision to New York DEP offices on Aug 8; the agency is very excited and is going to use Envision on all their new projects. It is also looking for more constructive ways to collaborate with the Zofnass Program. This initiative is thanks… Read more... Infrastructure 360° Awards at the 11th Latin American Infrastructure Leadership Forum in Mexico city Hatzav Yoffe (MLAII ’13, RA Zofnass), Anthony Kane (MDesS ’09, RA Zofnass) and Cristina Contreras (RA Zofnass), from the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure were invited to participate as panelists on the 11th Latin American Infrastructure Leadership Forum that… Read more... postListTransition Join us now ZPH Workshop: #Sustainable #Infrastructure for #ClimateAction in-person & ZOOM https://t.co/fCjkr0Ykrh About 2 weeks ago from Zofnass Program's Twitter Join us today and tomorrow for ZPH Workshop: #Sustainable #Infrastructure for #ClimateAction (hybrid online) in-person and in ZOOM: https://t.co/fCjkr0GJzJ https://t.co/RX44GuFotn About 2 weeks ago from Zofnass Program's Twitter Join us May 16-17 for ZPH Workshop: #Sustainable #Infrastructure for #ClimateAction (hybrid in-person & online) Free registration: https://t.co/egN8DVGFfM pic.twitter.com/AY8xP9Hd9h Last month from Zofnass Program's Twitter Register for our upcoming ZPH Workshop: Sustainable Infrastructure for Climate Action (hybrid online and in-person at Harvard). Join us! #sustainable #infrastructure #climateaction https://t.co/8z7K17j1vc Last month from Zofnass Program's Twitter Join our session this Wednesday, April 13th, at 11 am EDT! #climateaction #sustainableinfrastructure https://t.co/Q0OEELTs40 About 2 months ago from Zofnass Program's Twitter _____________________________ Copyright © 2021 Zofnass Program Perhaps the network unstable, please click refresh page.