Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Biomaterial Improves Islet Transplants for Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes Biomaterial Improves Islet Transplants for Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes May 13, 2022 — Atlanta, GA Andrés García led a team of researchers who are moving a hopeful treatment for type 1 diabetes closer to the clinic. Islet cell transplants are a promising treatment that can cure difficult-to-treat type 1 diabetes. The cells, taken from a donor pancreas, provide patients with a sustainable and tightly controlled source of insulin. A major problem is getting the patient’s immune system to accept the influx of new donor cells; the patient’s protective T-cells naturally want to reject the foreign invaders. But a team of investigators co-led by Georgia Institute of Technology researcher Andrés García overcame this hurdle in previous small animal studies. Their technique uses synthetic hydrogel particles called microgels. The microgels present a potent immunomodulatory protein called SA-FasL to modulate the body’s immune response, allowing the transplanted insulin-producing cells to safely do their job, regulating blood glucose levels, and fighting diabetes. A new study in the journal Science Advances from García and his collaborators moves this hopeful treatment strategy closer to the clinic. “Immunosuppression is a significant problem for patients, but in our prior work we showed that this biomaterial, this microgel, is a potent immunomodulatory molecule, and can induce permanent acceptance of the new cells,” said García, the Petit Chair in Bioengineering and Regents' Professor in the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering and executive director of the Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience. “But that study was done in mice, and the immune system of a mouse if very different from a human’s,” García added. “And in the progression toward clinical use, you really need to test this strategy in a large animal model.” Now, they have. García and his fellow researchers from the University of Missouri and Massachusetts General Hospital explain their results in the new paper. Their study, funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, demonstrates how co-transplanting islet cells with SA-FasL-microgels reversed diabetic symptoms while overcoming the immune response without using immunosuppressants, which can have dangerous side effects. The microgels essentially teach the immune system to accept the graft, interrupting the body’s inclination to reject the transplant and circumventing the need for continuous immunosuppression. “Those immunosuppressive regiments are toxic to the patient, so a major goal in the field has been to develop approaches that will allow you to put in this graft and get it to function without chronic immunosuppression,” said García. Because the biomaterial can be created in a lab and shipped anywhere, the new therapeutic is essentially off-the-shelf. And now that they’ve proven the strategy works in nonhuman primates, García and his collaborators are confident that patients with type 1 diabetes could have a powerful new treatment option. García is co-founder of the company that licensed the technology, iTolerance, which is already discussing plans for human clinical trials with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. “We are pretty pumped – this is very exciting, and these are hopeful results for people fighting type 1 diabetes,” said García, corresponding author and part of a 20-person research team. “This work wouldn’t have been possible with this team science approach.” CITATION: Ji Lei, María M. Coronel, Esma S. Yolcu, Hongping Deng, Orlando Grimany-Nuno, Michael D. Hunckler, Vahap Ulker, Zhihong Yang, Kang M. Lee, Alexander Zhang, Hao Luo, Cole W. Peters, Zhongliang Zou, Tao Chen, Zhenjuan Wang, Colleen S. McCoy, Ivy A. Rosales, James F. Markmann, Haval Shirwan, Andrés J. García. “FasL-microgels induce immune acceptance of islet allografts in nonhuman primates.” Science Advances DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abm9881 COMPETING INTERESTS: García, Shirwan, and Yolcu are inventors on a U.S. patent application on FasL-engineered biomaterials with immunomodulatory function filed by the University of Louisville and the Georgia Tech Research Corporation (no. 16/492441, filed 13 February 2020). This technology has been licensed by iTolerance, Inc. García and Shirwan are co-founders of iTolerance, and García, Shirwan, and Markmann serve on the scientific advisory board. FUNDING: Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation grant (2-SRA-2016-271-S-B), National Institutes of Health grant (U01 AI132817). Contact Contact: Jerry Grillo Email jerry.grillo@ibb.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN