Skip to Main Content Research @ Texas A&M | Inform, Inspire, Amaze Toggle Main Menu Search Learn Look Read Watch Zero-knowledge proof: Creating trust between users on digital platforms￼ May 24, 2022 Tags Computer Science Cybersecurity Shutterstock/bluesroad A new cryptographic tool developed at Texas A&M University could help to raise the levels of trust between users of cloud computing, blockchains, machine-learning services and other digital platforms. Yupeng Zhang, assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, recently received the National Science Foundation’s Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award for his research project, “Towards Efficient and Scalable Zero-Knowledge Proofs.” The focus of his research is on developing efficient and scalable zero-knowledge proof schemes, an important cryptographic primitive (well-established, low-level cryptographic algorithms used to build cryptographic protocols) to ensure data privacy and computation integrity simultaneously. In cryptography, a zero-knowledge proof is a method by which one party (the prover) can prove to another party (the verifier) that a given statement is true while the prover avoids conveying any additional information apart from the fact that the statement is indeed true. The essence of zero-knowledge proof is that it is trivial to prove that one possesses knowledge of certain information by simply revealing it; the challenge is to prove such possession without revealing the information itself or any additional information. “My research is to enhance the security, privacy and integrity of data and computations in the digital world through schemes in the area of cryptography,” he said. “In this award, ‘zero-knowledge proof’ is a powerful tool to establish trust between people without knowing each other ahead of time. It allows one to convince others that their secret data has some properties, without revealing the secret data itself. Because of this powerful functionality, zero-knowledge proofs have found great applications in cutting-edge technologies to provide privacy, scalability and integrity.” Zhang’s project advances three aspects of the zero-knowledge proof schemes: theory, application and systems. On the theory side, new practical schemes with linear running time in the size of the computation are constructed based on error-correcting codes and expander graphs. On the application side, the project investigates machine-learning algorithms and graph algorithms and develops efficient zero-knowledge proofs tailored for these applications. On the system side, the project initiates the study of memory-efficient and distributed algorithms for zero-knowledge proofs. More at the College of Engineering Share Share on Facebook Tweet Pin on Pinterest More Posts → Recent Posts Introducing research@Texas A&M … the magazine Click here to open the inaugural issue (Spring 2021) Data from India’s lockdown reveals how black carbon affects climate￼ International team of scientists publishes findings in Nature Communications Study: All bison in North America may share ancestry with domestic cattle￼ Team compares genome sequences among the major historical lineages of bison to 1,842 domestic cattle More Posts → Watch Read Look Learn Search Tags Accountability Colleges and Schools Apply Contact Us About This Website © 2013 Texas A&M University Produced by Division of Research Privacy & Security Compact With Texans • State of Texas - Texas Homeland Security - Open Records - Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline - Statewide Search - State Link Policy - Institutional Resumes - Texas Veterans Portal • Texas A&M University is a member of The Texas A&M University System