Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Sponsored Projects Administration US Flag Carrier Policy US Flag Carrier Policy For the full policy on the Fly America Act and Open Skies Agreement Exceptions, please refer to the Administrative Policy Library at: Fly America Act (Administrative Policy Library) Anyone planning to travel internationally as part of work to be done on a Federally sponsored project is responsible for knowing and adhering to the Fly America Act. In addition to the full policy (link above) the following resources can assist you when making travel arrangements: Fly America Exception Form - this checklist form lives in the Accounts Payable (AP) Forms Library. To be used when a traveler uses a foreign air carrier to request reimbursement on a Federal sponsored project. This form must accompany the Travel & Business Expense report (TBER), to be submitted to AP. Fly America/Open Skies Exceptions - Decision Tree Diagram (5/6/2014) - this diagram will help you determine if you are able to take advantage of an Open Skies Agreement exception to fly on a foreign carrier, or if you MUST fly on a U.S. Flag Carrier or code-shared flight. List of U.S. Airline Codes - will help determine if foreign flights are code-shared on U.S. Flag carriers when making travel arrangements. Look at your ticket or itinerary for the two-letter code. If a U.S. Airline code is on the ticket or itinerary, then the flight is compliant with Fly America Act. U.S. codes are provided at the top of this link. Airline City Pair Program (CPP) Search Tool - use when determining if a CPP exists for travel to Australia, Switzerland, or Japan. If search results exist, traveler MUST fly on a U.S. flag carrier or code-shared flight, and cannot take advantage of an Open Skies Agreement exception. GSA's Fly America Act & Open Skies Agreements - the U.S. General Services Administration's official site on the Fly America Act and Open Skies Agreements Columbia's Main Travel Expense Policy (Administrative Policy Library) Home Sponsored Projects Administration University Compliance Hotline Phone: 866-627-3768 Related Content SPA Directory Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close