Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA UDisclose Conflicts of Interest AAA Conflict of Interest COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms The increasing involvement of academic researchers, research teams and educators with industry and private entrepreneurial ventures has raised the potential for conflict of interest. These conflicts arise from an individual’s opportunities to benefit financially from the outcome of his/her research or other activities conducted as a University researcher, educator, or as part of a University research team. In order to comply with the University of Miami's conflict of interest (COI) and foreign influence (FI) policy, all Covered persons are required to complete the following components. : 1. Complete the Training Within the UDisclose System 2. Disclose Interests to the University Review and attest your understanding of UM’s annual training on Conflicts of Interest (COIs) and Foreign Influence (FI) that describes the nature of COI's and the University’s specific COI updated policy and procedures. Disclose their interests to UM. Each Investigator must disclose activities and financial interests related to his/her institutional responsibilities through the UDisclose System. Our UDisclose webpage contains additional information and answers to frequently asked questions to help users maneuver through the system. University Policies & Resources COIs REGARDING SCHOLARLY ACTIVITIES The University of Miami COI/FI policy is designed to promote objectivity in scholarly activities . By requiring the review of disclosures of interests made by our investigators (faculty, trainees, students, staff and subcontractors) relating to their institutional responsibilities, the policy establishes standards that provide a reasonable expectation that the design, conduct, and reporting of such activities will be free from bias resulting from individual financial and obligatory conflicts of interest. Disclosures & Scholarly Activities Management The role of the Disclosures & Scholarly Activities Management (DSAM) and the UM COI Committee (COIC) is to determine whether an investigator’s relationship with an external entity creates a situation that could introduce bias into a research project conducted at UM or by UM investigators, and, where this occurs, to manage it. Click the resources links below to see examples of relationships that the COIC may consider as a potential COI, and a description of components that, based on the nature of the COI, describes stipulations that could be included in COI management plans in order to mitigate the COI. COI Resources COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Sponsored Programs Policies Contacts and Additional Resources University Contacts Government Regulations Resources Under the purview of the Vice Provost for Research+ Scholarship, Disclosures & Scholarly Activities Management (DSAM) provides administrative support for the University of Miami COI Committee, as well as management of the UDisclose System. If you have specific questions or would like to arrange a presentation for your group on UM’s COI/FI policy and disclosure review process, please contact Dr. Lory Hayes, Director of DSAM, or call the UDisclose System helpline (305-243-0877). National Science Foundation National Institutes of Health Public Health Service Department of Energy Protecting Patients, Preserving Integrity, Advancing Health: Accelerating the Implementation of COI Policies in Human Subjects Research (PDF) Source: Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) & Association of American Universities (AAU) Conflict of Interest in Medical Research, Education and Practice Source: Institute of Medicine (IOM), National Academy of Sciences (NAS) University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices