The University of Texas at Austin Office of the Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors Search Our Site: Search Menu Research Showcase Research Offices Office of Research Support and Compliance (RSC) Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) Office of Innovation and Economic Impact Office of Industry Engagement (OIE) Office of Technology Commercialization (OTC) Research@UT Units & Centers Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Postdoctoral Services Libraries Research TRACKS Search Our Site: Search Find Funding Internal Funding Opportunities OVPR-Administered Grants and Awards Funding administered through OVPR: Research and Creative Grants Special Research Grants Book Subventions Bridge to Phase II Support Grants Hamilton Book Awards Co-op Research and Creative Awards Proof of Concept Awards Open Call Grant Opportunities List of general research funding opportunities that are open to any faculty or research staff. Pivot Funding Opps Database Pivot allows research developers to quickly discover the right funding opportunities. Pivot is available to all UT faculty, staff researchers, research administrators and students. Limited Submission Programs List of limited submission programs in which the university competes. ConTex Programs ConTex programs provide Mexican Ph.D. students educational opportunities at UT System institutions, allow for the exchange of postdoctoral and faculty fellows, and enable visiting students to participate in research projects. Faculty Development Program Faculty Research Assignments, Summer Research Assignments and Travel Grants provided by the Graduate School in support of faculty research. Provost’s Authors Fellowship Through this program, associate professors pursuing promotion to full professor who are engaged in the development and publication of scholarly books will have financial and programmatic support to focus on their work, regardless of their field of study or academic discipline. Big XII Faculty Fellowships This program offers faculty the opportunity to travel to member institutions to exchange ideas and pursue research. All tenured or tenure-track faculty, plus those who have been in non-tenure-track faculty positions at The University of Texas at Austin for at least six years, are eligible to apply. HornRaiser HornRaiser is UT’s official crowdfunding platform. Students, faculty and staff can use HornRaiser as a tool to raise money for everything from research projects and class trips to uniforms and competitions. General Funding Resources Campus funding resources and support. Texas Global Faculty Research Seed Grant Supports International Collaboration Texas Global Faculty Research Seed Grant provides financial support to faculty across all disciplines to develop and strengthen new or existing partnerships with leading higher education institutions and organizations around the world. International Research Find international research resources, grant opportunities, and research units at UT Austin. Texas Health Catalyst Sponsored by Dell Medical School, this health product innovation program supports therapeutics, diagnostics, devices and digital health. Open to all UT researchers and students throughout the year until 10 projects have been awarded. External Funding Opportunities Foundation Funding Find foundation support and competitive intelligence data on select foundation opportunities. Government Funding Find public funding and competitive intelligence data on select government agency programs. Industry Funding Find campus industry funding resources and support. International Research Find international research resources, grant opportunities, and research units at UT Austin. Home Resources for Researchers Faculty Development The Navigator Research Collaborations Research Highlights Honors and Recognition About Messages from the Vice President Contact Us FAC 426 512-471-2877 Email Us PI Book Researcher Responsibilities Policies Research IT UT Research Management Suite Research Misconduct FAC Technology Rooms Reservations Home Find Funding Return to top of page Animal Resources Center Applied Research Labs Austin Technology Incubator Bridging Barriers Bureau of Business Research Center for Biomedical Research Support Center for Identity Energy Institute IC2 Institute Oden Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences Texas Advanced Computing Center UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader See more below...