Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search Current Initiatives HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Research Initiatives Research Initiatives At Georgia Tech, we create the most exciting areas of tomorrow’s research through our collaborations today. Here’s what we’re working on now – just try to keep up! You can also explore the full list of our research areas Current Initiatives Quantum Information Systems For many years, Georgia Tech has been pursuing advances in both hardware and software needed for quantum information systems. Among them are: new classes of ion traps for computing and sensing, error correction approaches relying on qubit diversity, specialized quantum testbeds for studying new technologies and quantum techniques for materials and chemical development. Hypersonics Technology Vehicles that fly at hypersonic speeds – Mach 5 and beyond – create significant challenges that go well beyond the capabilities of current technologies. Georgia Tech is supporting hypersonics research in the areas of hybrid advanced propulsion systems, aerodynamic theory and experimental verification, novel control systems, and advanced communications technologies. Advanced Manufacturing At Georgia Tech, research on advanced manufacturing ranges from nanoscale additive manufacturing to advanced logistics and new materials development. Among our strengths are security technology for additive processes, development of scalable nanoscale fabrication, advanced composite repair and verification, and the manufacturing and quality control of therapeutic living cells. Pediatric Technology Working directly with clinicians, Georgia Tech researchers are developing innovative technology to save children’s lives. The research includes 3D-printed tracheal splints that help babies breathe, an experimental drug delivery technique that could protect kids from a dangerous respiratory virus, and an app that screens kids for anemia without blood draws. Read more. Internet of Things The internet of things will soon account for more than half of the world’s connected devices. As that IoT wave approaches, Georgia Tech researchers are exploring the implications of a connected world — from keeping hackers at bay to developing the next-generation of wireless and cellular networks capable of supporting the new devices. Read more. Artificial Intelligence Georgia Tech is advancing artificial intelligence through discovery, interdisciplinary research and education designed to help build a sustainable future. Through the interdisciplinary AI@GT initiative, we are creating new knowledge in artificial intelligence, leading the deployment of innovative applications for enterprise-level AI, and teaching a new generation of students and professionals. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN