Skip to content → Office of the Vice Provost for Research open menu About Funding Research Policies & Compliance Education & Training Search Sidebar open sidebar Search Recent Posts Summer Stipends 2023, National Endowment for the Humanities (LSO) Greenwall Faculty Scholars Program in Bioethics, 2023 (LSO) Searle Scholars, 2023 (LSO) Rita Allen Foundation Scholars, 2023 (LSO) NSF Research Traineeship Program, NSF 21-536 (LSO) Recent Comments RSS Test Climate Change Solutions Fund Internal Funding Opportunity: Climate Change Solutions Fund The Harvard University Climate Change Solutions Fund was established by President Emerita Drew Gilpin Faust in 2014. Between 2014 and 2021 the Office of the Vice Provost for Research acted as steward of the fund, facilitating seven funding cycles and making a total of 59 awards to research teams across the University. Beginning with the 2021-2022 cycle, the OVPR is excited to work with the newly established Office of the Vice Provost for Climate and Sustainability, which will now lead the stewardship of this important and timely fund. The Harvard University Climate Change Solutions Fund supports research and policy initiatives intended to reduce the risks of climate change, hasten the transition from fossil fuel-based energy systems to those that rely on renewable energy sources, to develop methods for diminishing the impact of existing fossil fuel-based energy systems on the climate, to understand and prepare for the impacts of climate change, and to propel scientific, technological, legal, behavioral, policy and artistic innovations needed to accelerate progress toward cleaner energy, improved human health, and a greener world. Watch the video below to see several awardees discussing their work and the role of the Harvard research community in understanding, counteracting, and mitigating climate change. The Office of the Vice Provost for Climate and Sustainability, and the Office of the Vice Provost for Research are pleased to share that the 2021-2022 cycle of the Climate Change Solutions Fund is now open and accepting applications. The RFP can be seen here. The application can be found in the Harvard University Funding Portal, (HUFP), by clicking here. To date there have been seven funding cycles, with a total of 59 awards made to research teams across the University. Read about the 2020/21 awardees here. Founder WordPress Theme by Compete Themes. Skip to toolbar Log In About WordPress About WordPress WordPress.org Documentation Support Feedback Search Office of the Vice Provost for Research The Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 836 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 617-384-9451 Contact Us Privacy Policy | EU/EEA Privacy Disclosures | Trademark Notice | Digital Accessibility Policy | Harvard Home | Provost Home Admin Login