Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Offices Vice President for Research Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Office of Biosafety Department of Comparative Medicine Human Research Protection Office & IRBs Sponsored Projects Administration Institutional Biosafety Committee Research Compliance Office of Research Proposal Development Office of Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property Development Core Facilities Funding Opportunities External Funding Opportunities Corporations & Foundations Grant Opportunities Additional Resources Supporting Impactful Publications Program News & Events Research News Our Team Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Offices / Office of Biosafety Office of Biosafety Video and PowerPoint Slides from the August 17th, 2021 Faculty Orientation COVID-19 Information Biosafety COVID-19 Guidelines Institutional Biosafety Committee Stipulations for Research involving SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) The Office of BioSafety is fully functional and operating at normal capacity. We expect this to continue even if the university further suspends on-site operations for purposes of decreasing COVID-19 transmission. As Tulane University makes decisions on how to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, we want to reassure the university community that our primary concern is the safety of our research participants and the research team members at the university. Our secondary goal is to preserve the scientific integrity of the research and its protocols. Tulane University resources regarding COVID-19 Required changes to research practice based on the coronavirus will be posted on the Office of Research website, https://research.tulane.edu/. Please check the website frequently if you are interacting with research participants. Tulane University COVID-19 website (information, FAQs, and current recommendations): https://campushealth.tulane.edu/health-center/primary-care/infectious-disease-care/coronavirus-covid-19. Tulane University President’s announcements on university actions as to COVID-19: https://tulane.edu/tulane-university-moves-online-instruction-cancels-large-events. Additional guidelines issued by the Tulane School of Medicine are available at https://medicine.tulane.edu/research-covid-19-information. Additional resources Recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC): https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/index.html. Overview The Office of Biosafety at Tulane University was created in 2006 under the Office of the Vice President for Research to support the Tulane research community. With an increased focus on vaccine development and infectious disease studies at the School of Medicine, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, and Tulane National Primate Research Center, as well as the expansion of the Cancer and Gene Therapy Centers, research with biological materials at Tulane is expanding rapidly. The Office of Biosafety strives to support this important and innovative research by addressing challenges associated with it. We are focused on minimizing the health risk to those involved in research using biohazard materials including recombinant DNA, infectious agents, and biological toxins, and in turn to protect the greater Tulane community, the general public, and the environment. In order to accomplish this goal we maintain an interactive partnership between the Office of Biosafety, the principal investigators, and the laboratory support staff. In addition, the Office of Biosafety, in cooperation with the Institutional Biosafety Committee, is charged with oversight of regulatory compliance at the university with regard to the storage and use of hazardous biological materials. The Office of Biosafety fulfills its mission and promotes a safe and productive research environment at Tulane by assuring compliance with regulatory requirements, by serving as a technical resource for both research labs and the Institutional Biosafety Committee, by assisting principal investigators in registering their research with the Institutional Biosafety Committee, by developing safe research protocols, and by facilitating the acquisition of all required regulatory approvals and permits. If you would like to know more about the Office of Biosafety or if you need assistance, please feel free to contact us. We would be happy to help! About Us COVID-19 Biosafety Resources Biological Safety Policies and Manuals Biosafety Cabinets Biosafety Resources for Researchers Forms IATA/DOT Shipping Training Import Permitting Contact Us Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University