Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Skin Science and Technology Collaborative The scientists and researchers at the Skin Science and Technology Collaborative advance the boundaries of skin science, skin technology and commercialization – and have decades of innovation to help advance a wide variety of missions. About Our vision engages a diverse set of non-competing industry members and research partners who connect, collaborate, and co-create synergistic skin science research opportunities by accessing The University of Cincinnati’s top-in-class skin science and technology expertise and infrastructure across campus. Collaborative research and access to expert researchers will accelerate value- creation for all S2TC partners: Industry partners benefit from acceleration and incubation of skin- focused solutions that are highly valued by consumers for their health, wellness, and lifestyle benefits, as well as compelling intellectual property arrangements National, state, and local funding bodies benefits from basic/applied/commercial research opportunities, co-created by S2TC industry and academic partners, leading to wise tax revenue investment choices, economic development, and growth. Faculty and students, in line with their academic mission, creates new knowledge for academic dissemination and publication, and thereby stimulate additional research opportunities that span across multiple disciplines. Students also benefit from the opportunity to collaborate, and build relationships, directly with industry partners. IMPACT AREAS S2TC specializes in three main areas: Skin Health (biology, sensory), On-Skin Technology (biomechanics modeling, deposition & transport, imaging, materials & chemistry, skin sensors), and Therapeutics (clinical sciences, drug discovery and development). We tackle your challenges head-on and deliver an impressive ROI beyond what one might typically expect from an academic center. We quickly take science out of the lab and translate it into real-world, relevant skin solutions. PARTNERS Procter & Gamble (P&G) is the founding partner behind the Skin Science & Technology Collaborative. Research is fundamental to P&G’s approach to product development, and this Collaborative – exclusive to UCRI – is pivotal to making transformative innovation happen for P&G and the global consumers the company serves across multiple categories and brands such as Olay, Old Spice and Head & Shoulders. In addition, Shriners Hospital for Children and Cincinnati’s Children’s Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC) have partnered with researchers at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center for many years to solve skin challenges for their patients. Together, these partners are creating new ways to solve age-old challenges with skin and tissue healing and health. Who We Are Heather Norton Executive Director S2TC Jerry Kasting Professor, College of Pharmacy Skin Technology, Therapeutics Jason Heikenfeld Professor, College of Engineering & Applied Sciences Skin Technology Andrew Steckl College of Engineering & Applied Sciences Skin Technology, Wound Healing Je-Hyeong Bahk College of Engineering & Applied Sciences Skin Technology Steven Boyce Professor, College of Medicine Skin Technology, Wound Healing Kevin Li College of Pharmacy Skin Health, Therapeutics Giovanni Pauletti Assoc. Professor, College of Pharmacy Therapeutics Peng Zhang Assoc. Professor, College of Arts & Sciences Skin Health, Therapeutics, Materials Bill Heineman Professor, College of Arts & Sciences Skin Technology, Skin Health, Therapeutics Tom Beck Professor, College of Arts & Sciences Computational Chemistry Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021