Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search News UC researchers continue to blaze new trails in science, medicine, business, education, engineering and the arts — literally transforming the way we live, work and learn. IRiS Ignite is not your average conference IRiS Ignite is not your average conference Findings Staff Report | May 10, 2022 Are you a student, scholar, innovator, artisan or entrepreneur with an interest in sensing or perception? Join us at UC for Ignite on May 25 and 26—a re-imagined academic conference that will forge novel connections and stimulate new interdisciplinary conversations on the broad topic of sensing, perception, sensor technology development and ethical innovations in sensing research. The event has been planned by UC’s Institute for Research in Sensing to engage individuals and research teams interested in the study of sensing related to engineering, psychology, biology, philosophy, chemistry, medicine, physics, ethics, the humanities and the fine and performing arts. The event features two keynote speakers, as well as a program of 15-minute lectures, poster session, art exhibition and short (5-minute) performances. The first keynote speaker is Gymama Slaughter, executive director of the Old Dominion University Research Center for Bioelectronics and director of the National Institutes of Health Graduate Research Training Initiative for Student Enhancement at Old Dominion. She will give a talk called “Developing Technologies That Will Change How We See Implantable and Wearable Devices. Slaughter is the recipient of the National Science Foundation’s prestigious CAREER Program award, which recognizes faculty who exemplify the role of teacher-scholar through outstanding research, excellent education and the integration of education and research. The second is Misha Sra, an assistant professor and director of the Perceptual Engineering Lab in the Computer Science department at University of California, Santa Barbara. Sra is giving a talk on “Human Augmentation.” She received her Ph.D. at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2018, where she was selected as an EECS Rising Star. Sra has received multiple best paper awards and honorable mentions. Her research has received extensive media coverage from leading media outlets, such as Engadget, UploadVR, MIT Tech Review and Forbes India, and has drawn the attention of industry research, such as Samsung and Unity 3D. “At IRiS, we seek not only to expand what is possible, but also to ask what is good, for human thriving and the health of our planet,” says Director Nathan Morehouse, an associate professor of biological sciences at UC. “Our mission is one of connection, integration and holism as we pursue breakthroughs in sensing research at the University of Cincinnati and beyond.” Interested in contributing a talk, poster or performance? The abstract deadline has been extended to May 13. The event costs $10 for students and $25 for a faculty, staff member or community member. Registration includes free refreshments and a meal voucher for food truck lunches on May 25. The event is supported by UC’s Research2030 initiative, the College of Arts & Sciences and the College of Engineering & Applied Science. Visit the event website for more details. < Back to NewsBack to News Forward Tweet Share via Facebook Share via LinkedIn Want to stay up to date with the latest research news? Subscribe to the Office of Research Newsletter Email Address: Subscribe Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021