Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Compliance Office of Research Compliance and Training Office of Research Compliance and Training The Office of Research Compliance and Training helps ensure that Columbia faculty, students and staff are in compliance with the complex web of regulatory requirements that govern research. About Directory Recent Developments Featured Content Promoting Harassment-Free Research Environments For information on funding agencies' requirements and policies, and relevant Columbia offices Research Ethics & Compliance — Film Discussions An interdisciplinary discussion series examining issues of research compliance, human subjects research, and ethics raised in popular films and documentaries Science & Security Information on Science and Security topics including new developments, existing requirements, guidance and best practices Training Finder An interactive tool to identify required research compliance trainings PCRI Symposium The PCRI Symposium will be held on March 11, 2022 What we do Advice and Consultations We are available to consult and provide advice on many research compliance topics. Anti-Boycott U.S. federal regulations prohibit the University or its personnel from agreeing to participate in any international boycott not supported by the U.S. government. Anti-Corruption Columbia University policy prohibits the unlawful bribery of government officials or private persons in connection with University activities. Conflict of Interest A conflict of interest (COI) exists where a researcher's outside interests or activities could improperly affect, or give the appearance of affecting, the researcher's activities at Columbia. Data Management and Security Valuable information regarding research data at Columbia, including management, security, storage and ownership of data. Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Certain entities and individuals, both domestic and foreign, are subject to sanctions or other restrictions under U.S. law that may restrict researchers' ability to engage in a project, collaboration or other transaction. Export Controls U.S. laws and regulations that restrict the shipment or transfer of certain information, commodities, services, and other items (including software) for reasons of foreign policy and national security, as determined by the U.S. government. Fiscal Responsibility Columbia researchers and administrators are expected to exercise the utmost responsibility in managing research funds provided to the University, including issues related to compensation and effort reporting. International Research To help researchers plan for risks and requirements that may be associated with international projects, the University has established Risk Management Procedures. ReaDI Program A program designed to provide several tools to ensure robust data and research integrity. Research Misconduct University policies and procedures that define misconduct, outline the process for investigating allegations, and explain the consequences of committing misconduct. Training The University's comprehensive compliance training programs ensure that those involved in research are aware of what is expected and required of them. Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (Drones) The FAA regulates the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (“UAVs”, a.k.a. drones) within the U.S. This includes UAVs used in Columbia research. Columbia University also restricts the use of UAVs on Columbia campus. Report a Compliance Concern The Hotline serves as a confidential and anonymous channel for employees to report or seek guidance on possible compliance issues. DA Quick Guide to Rascal Training Center Scroll through this quick guide as you would a website to learn how Departmental Administrators (DAs) can get access to and use the Rascal Training Center for administration. Announcements and Events In the News Read about recent research compliance issues in the news. RCT Calendar View upcoming events from RCT. PCRI Symposium A University Symposium: Promoting Credibility, Reproducibility and Integrity in Research will be held on March 11, 2022. Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close