Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Chaouki T. Abdallah Chaouki Abdallah Executive Vice President for Research Chaouki T. Abdallah is the Executive Vice President for Research (EVPR) at the Georgia Institute of Technology. As chief research officer, Abdallah provides overall leadership for the Institute’s $1 billion portfolio of research, economic development and sponsored activities, including the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), 10 interdisciplinary research institutes (IRIs), and related research administrative support units. He also serves on the executive committee of the Council on Research for the Association of Public & Land-Grant Universities (APLU), the executive committee for the Government-University-Industry Research Roundtable (GUIRR), and the advisory committee for the Center on Measuring University Performance (MUP). Since Abdallah assumed the role of EVPR, the Institute took occupancy of Coda, a first-of-its kind, mixed-use facility in the heart of Tech Square, designed to create opportunities in interdisciplinary research, commercialization and sustainability. Under his leadership, Georgia Tech also recently launched the “Commission on Research Next,” a process that will map a comprehensive future for research at Tech. The initiative will also develop the Institute’s strategy to bolster commercialization efforts and tech transfer initiatives, and grow critical collaborations with industry, government, the national labs, and foundations. Abdallah came to Georgia Tech from the University of New Mexico, where he served as the university’s 22nd president, as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs, as well as department chair of the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department. During his tenure, Abdallah oversaw long-range academic planning and efforts to improve student success, as well as retention-achievement and graduation achievement rates. He conducts research and teaches courses in the area of systems theory with a focus on control, communications, and computing systems. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, national laboratories, and various companies. Abdallah, who is fluent in English, French, and Arabic, is a senior member of IEEE and a recipient of that organization’s Millennium Medal. Abdallah began his college career at the Faculté d’ingénierie of the Université Saint-Joseph in Lebanon, then obtained a Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) degree from Youngstown State University in 1981, and a M.S. and Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Georgia Tech in 1982 and 1988, respectively. He has published eight books (three as co-editor and five as co-author) and more than 300 peer-reviewed papers, and provided expert testimony to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Contact: ctabdallah@gatech.edu 404-894-8885 Executive Assistant: Lisa Tuttle ltuttle@gatech.edu 404-894-8884 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN