Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides Nursing LRC Tools for Success Home Search this Guide Search Nursing LRC Tools for Success: Home Nursing Students Guide for the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center Home Using Nursing LRC ResourcesToggle Dropdown Using LRC Resources Peer Review Print Resources at the Nursing LRC Models and Kits at the Nursing LRC Scope and Standards List of Current Titles Electronic Resources Toggle Dropdown Electronic Databases Electronic Journals STAT!Ref RefWorks Online Test Prep Tools U.S. Government Health Information Sites Other Baylor Research Guides APA Style Resources Other Resources and Tips Toggle Dropdown Tips for Nursing Students by Degree Evidence-Based Practice Advanced Searching Additional Links Toggle Dropdown Nursing Professional Associations, Societies, and Specialties Local Information Sources Texas Board of Nursing Clinical Tools Health News Health Policy Other Reference Sites Welcome to the Nursing LRC Tools for Success Research Guide Located in Dallas, the Nursing Learning Resource Center (NLRC) specializes in nursing information and supports faculty research and student study at the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing (BULHSON). This Nursing LRC Tools for Success research guide is a highly selective list of helpful resources to get you started and introduce you to some of the resources that are available for use through the NLRC. It is not the only place to look for nursing or health information. Ask the NLRC librarian for more suggestions. The guide also provides some Quick Tips to aid in using the resources and may be particularly helpful to first-semester nursing students. Important Note: Not all links will take you directly into the resource. You may have to click another time at the next link, log in with your BearID, or register with the resource. Some Unexpected Things The NLRC has two recharging power towers on wheels to recharge your phone or tablet. Look for them near the Information Desk or by the staircase. Blankets and pillows are available at the Information Desk. Just ask. No ID required. Searching Baylor Resources Baylor University Libraries The University Libraries home page is a great place to link to helps, tips, FAQs, research help and many resources not specifically related to nursing. On the Baylor University Libraries page, the OneSearch search box is prominent. OneSearch is a discovery resource that provides a single place to search most of the content available from the Baylor University Libraries, including: the online catalog (books, journal titles, media, etc.); the Baylor Digital Collections; BEARdocs, (electronic theses and dissertations, honors theses, technical reports, faculty publications, etc.); research guides; and -- most importantly, much of the full text content to which the Baylor Libraries subscribe from a wide variety of sources. OneSearch does not replace the many subject-specific databases to which the Baylor Libraries subscribe; it supplements and complements those resources. Baylor University Libraries Research Guides Many research guides have been created and compiled by Baylor University Librarians on a variety of topics, from specific subjects or class resources to more general useful resources, such as locating a citation's DOI (digital object identifier) or copyright. Take a look through the guides to see if there are any on the topic(s) of interest to you and check back periodically to see if any new guides of interest to you have been added. In this guide, there is a section on other research guides selected because they might be of interest to nursing students. To Search for Articles: Use subject-specific databases, such as those listed in the Electronic Resources section of this guide. You can also use OneSearch for articles. Nursing LRC Photos Welcome to the BULHSON Nursing LRC! Have Questions or Need Help? The Nursing LRC has a professional medical librarian available to answer questions and provide research assistance weekdays between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Stop by the Nursing LRC in Dallas (located in the basement of the Academic Building at 333 N. Washington Avenue) Call (972) 576-9200 or E-mail: nursinglrc@baylor.edu The nursinglrc e-mail is checked at least three times per day Monday through Friday. Nursing LRC users may also request an appointment for assistance. For assistance with technology, printers, or computers, please use this link to contact the Nursing School IT Department. Nursing LRC Librarian Director Jamie Quinn, MSIS (972) 576-9200 nursinglrc@baylor.edu Quick Links Baylor University Home Baylor University Libraries Homepage Access to OneSearch (library catalog) and more OneSearch Baylor University Libraries Catalog Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing (BULHSON) Home School of Nursing Learning Resource Center (NLRC) Home NLRC Information Desk Hours this Month Click on the link above to see the Nursing LRC Information Desk Hours this month. Next: Using Nursing LRC Resources >> Last Updated: Sep 20, 2021 5:01 PM URL: https://libguides.baylor.edu/nursing Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Subjects: Nursing University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu Osofast A-Z Databases OneSearch Profiles Library Account Login Hours Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Report It | Title IX | Mental Health Resources | Anonymous Reporting | Legal Disclosures