Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Research About People Our Research Our Services News & Events Home Contact Search Menu Advancing Human Understanding Through research, scholarship, and creative endeavor Advancing Human Understanding Through research, scholarship, and creative endeavor Researchers at the University of Notre Dame are committed to advancing human understanding through research, scholarship, and creative endeavor in order to be a repository for knowledge and a powerful means for doing good in the world. Notre Dame Research supports and encourages innovation in more than forty core facilities and resources, as well as in a number of key areas of research, including cancer, environmental change, global health, and many more, with faculty finding their homes in one of Notre Dame’s seven colleges or schools. $222.7 M FY21 Research Awards #1 In the country for NEH Fellowships since 1999 1 in 3 Undergraduates participate in original research Funding NDR Internal Grants NDR's Internal Grants Program aims to support faculty researchers and programs that advance the University’s research enterprise through a competitive funding process. Employment NDR is Hiring NDR is committed to a community that fosters equity of experience and opportunity and ensures that members of all backgrounds feel safe, welcome, and included. Video Fighting for Research that Matters Learn how one Notre Dame graduate student’s discovery of a new cell may lie at the heart of what’s causing her own illness. Latest News More News Edward Maginn appointed associate vice president for research at the University of Notre Dame Edward Maginn, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Engineering in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed associate vice president for research, effective July 1, 2022. In this role, Maginn will be responsible for a number of special projects related to new initiatives at Notre Dame and certain projects that are already underway that... April 27, 2022 Read more Multi-decade research links fathers’ testosterone production to their adolescent experiences with their own fathers Berthiaume family’s $20 million gift endows Institute for Precision Health Media Mentions More Media Mentions Business Insider One billionaire was minted every 30 hours during the pandemic. Now, a million people may fall into extreme poverty every 33 hours, Oxfam estimates. May 23, 2022 In January 2021, 8.1 million Americans entered into poverty, Insider's Ayelet Sheffey reported, citing a study by the University of Chicago and University of Notre Dame economists. Originally published at news.nd.edu. Has science-based marketing taken a pandemic hit? May 20, 2022 Recent research from John Costello, a marketing professor at Notre Dame’s Mendoza College of Business, along with researchers at Simon Fraser University and Ohio State University, explored how invoking science in the marketing of consumer products can backfire. Originally published at news.nd.edu. Using ‘science’ to market cookies and other products meant for pleasure backfires with consumers May 12, 2022 John Costello, Assistant Professor of Marketing, University of Notre Dame. Originally published at news.nd.edu. Inside Indiana Business South Bend Hospitals Test Notre Dame-Developed Breast Imaging Device April 28, 2022 What started as a PhD project for a University of Notre Dame student has exploded into a “billion-dollar idea” that could transform imaging standards for breast cancer treatment. Originally published at news.nd.edu. Events View all events Jun 1 Deadline: Materials Science & Engineering PhD Program Fellowships Time: Wed, Jun 1, All Day Jun 3 Ecology & Evolution of Infectious Diseases Conference 2022 Time: Fri, Jun 3, All Day (part of a series) Location: Atlanta, GA Jun 3 ND Explores STEM Time: Fri, Jun 3 at 2:00 pm - 4:30 pm Location: Jordan Hall of Science Jun 4 Ecology & Evolution of Infectious Diseases Conference 2022 Time: Sat, Jun 4, All Day (part of a series) Location: Atlanta, GA ND Research on Twitter @UNDResearch on Twitter @undresearch “A great Catholic university for the 21st century, one of the preeminent research institutions in the world.” -Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. Home About People Our Research Our Services News & Events Research Continuity Philanthropy Internal Playbook Compliance Core Facilities Funding Opportunities Resource Library Notre Dame Research 317 Main Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-7432 research@nd.edu Twitter © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn