Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Postdoctoral Affairs Definition of a Postdoc Definition of a Postdoc Before beginning postdoctoral training, postdocs will receive an offer letter or letter of appointment from the primary investigator who will be his/her mentor. The letter will describe the type of funding available. The source of funding dictates the salary and benefits that each postdoc will receive. Postdocs should retain a signed copy of the appointment letter for their records. Policies on sick, vacation and parental leave are also tied to the grade of appointment, mentor and lab policies. Postdoctoral Trainees are Officers of Research at the University. There are four grades of appointment as Postdoctoral Officers of Research: Expand all Collapse all Postdoctoral Research Scientists/Scholars (PDRS) Postdoctoral Research Scientists/Scholars (PDRS) are recent recipients of the doctorate, or its professional equivalent, who may be appointed for full- or part-time service for a term of up to twelve months, renewable for a total period of service in a postdoctoral rank of up to three years. Extensions for up to an additional two years may be made with the prior permission of the Provost. Officers appointed in this rank are paid a salary through the Office of the Controller or by an affiliated hospital or institute. Postdoctoral Research Fellows (PDF) Postdoctoral Research Fellows (PDF) are either recent recipients of the doctorate, or its professional equivalent, who have won awards (usually from external agencies) to continue their training at the University or individuals of greater experience who have won awards permitting them to retrain themselves in a new discipline or specialty. PDFs may be appointed for full- or part-time service for a term of up to twelve months, which is renewable for a total period of service in a postdoctoral rank of up to three years. Extensions for up to an additional two years may be made with the prior permission of the Provost. In contrast to postdoctoral research scientists and scholars, these fellows are generally not paid a salary. Instead, they usually receive fellowship stipends, either through the University’s Office of the Controller or directly from an external funding agency. Postdoctoral Clinical Fellows (PCF) Postdoctoral Clinical Fellows (PCF) are recent recipients of the doctorate, who come to the University to gain additional clinical training after completing their residency, or individuals of greater experience who wish to change clinical specialties. PCFs may be appointed for full- or part-time service for a term of up to twelve months, which is renewable for a total period of service in a postdoctoral rank of up to three years. Extensions for up to an additional two years may be made with the prior permission of the Provost. These fellows may simultaneously hold appointments as officers of instruction in the rank of assistant in clinical (department). Depending upon the source of funding, one of these appointments will be full-time and the other, part-time. When the fellow receives a stipend, the appointment as a postdoctoral clinical fellow is full-time and the assistant in clinical (department) is part-time. The reverse is true when the individual is paid a salary. Postdoctoral Residency Fellows (PRF) Postdoctoral Residency Fellows (PRF) hold the doctorate of Medicine, Dental Medicine, or Dental Surgery and are enrolled in programs at affiliated hospitals and institutes for the purpose of obtaining additional clinical training before embarking on independent careers as physicians and dentists. They may be appointed for part-time service for a term of up to twelve months. The appointment is renewable as long as they continue in a training program. 212-305-4073 [email protected] Home Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Related Links Career Development Opportunities Housing and Benefits Funding Opportunities Forms Definition of a Postdoc Postdoc Community New Postdocs For Faculty and Administrators Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close