Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Dartmouth Library Research Guides Dartmouth Library Guides Music Historical Research Search this Guide Search Music Historical Research Contemporary/Popular Music Composition and Recording Community Music Trials Music & Performing Arts Librarian Memory Apata Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: (603)-646-3120 Subjects: Music, Theater Historical Research Reference Works Scores Audio Books/Journals Encyclopedias/Dictionaries Oxford Music Online Access digital versions of Grove Music Online, the Oxford Companion to Music, and the Oxford Dictionary of Music. Entries include biographies from Claudio Abbado to Jay Z and subject overviews from chest percussion to electronic music and are keyword searchable. Authors include popular music critics/writers and music scholars. Articles linked in the bibliographies of Grove entries feature the 'Get It' button. If Dartmouth has access to the article digitally, simply click to button to read the linked article in full. If 'Get It' doesn't work, request the article through DartDoc. MGG Online (Musik in Geschichte und Gegenwart) This link opens in a new window This German language encyclopedia, also known as the MGG, is an authoritative source for information in all genres of music and all fields of musicology. Entries are generally short enough that even a very small vocabulary in German might still allow you to retrieve information about musical topics otherwise unavailable to you. It is possible to copy and paste the information into an online translator to understand the gist of an article. The Garland encyclopedia of world music online The encyclopedia is comprised of ten volumes, arranged by region (Africa, Central/South America & the Caribbean, North America, Southeast Asia, South Asia/India, The Middle East, East Asia, Europe, Australia/Pacific Islands). Each entry is authored by a musicologist specializing in a particular region, who includes an overview of major musical traditions in the area. Encyclopedia entries may be printed in full text by clicking the icon above the article viewer. Includes accompanying audio, including field recordings, via streaming. Scores in the Dartmouth Collection Performance Scores How to find scores using the Library Search: First, limit the format of the search to "Music Scores." Then, perform a keyword search, rather than a title, author, or subject search. Music materials are often in non-English languages. A keyword search will ensure that if the title is listed in another language, the cross-listed English title in the record will cause the piece to appear in your search results. Useful search tips: Keep your search simple and eliminate unnecessary words, rather than searching for a piece's full name. ex: For "beethoven concerto no. 5 for piano and orchestra in Eb major," search "beethoven piano concerto 5" or "beethoven emperor concerto." It can sometimes be useful to search for titles in the composer's native language if a search in English fails. Do not use any diacritics (accent marks, umlauts, etc.) in your search. You can find the original title by performing a Google search. ex: for Debussy's Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun, try a keyword search for "prelude a l'apres midi d'un faune" instead. Search for the name of the instrument(s) to browse music for a particular instrument or ensemble. Remember that it may be useful to search for the instrument's name in the composer's native language. ex: "flote" instead of "flute" for pieces by Brahms, Beethoven, or Mozart. If Dartmouth doesn't have the score you need, try requesting it through BorrowDirect. If none of our partner institutions has the score, you can request it through DartDoc. If you need to find a citation for a particular edition of a score so that you can request it through DartDoc, worldcat.org is a good place to look. Reference Scores Collected Works are arranged alphabetically by composer last name. They are housed in the Baker 1 Stacks in the M3 section and do not circulate outside of the library. Individual works in this section are not findable in Library Search. To find a specific piece in this section, you must use Grove Music Online. Search for the composer in Grove and scroll down to the "Works" section on the left hand navigation bar. You can also use 'Ctrl + F' to search for the piece by title on this page. Once you find the piece in Grove, write down the edition and volume number to find it in the stacks. If you need help, you can always email the Music Librarian at memory.r.apata@dartmouth.edu. Scores Online IMSLP.org The International Music Score Library Project contains thousands of scores in the public domain. This includes mostly classical music by well-known composers. Browse alphabetically by composer, composer nationality, time period, instrumentation, and genre. You can also search by work title, but not all works are cross-listed in English. This is a wonderful source for art song literature, chamber music, solo instrumental works, and even full orchestral works. However, IMSLP is a wiki, which means that anyone can contribute reproductions of printed music to this site, regardless of U.S. copyright law. If you are using a score from IMSLP published after 1900, it is a good idea to check for the copyrights to the piece with the publisher if you plan to distribute multiple copies. Music Online: Classical Scores Library A collection of Alexander Street Press. Includes performance scores and digital manuscripts by well-known classical composers and for lesser-known contemporary composers. Search by time period, composer, instrument, genre, and title. Entire scores may be printed for performance or study. Create a free account with Alexander Street Press to write annotations in the music and to save citations. Babel Scores Great source for contemporary scores for electronics, extended techniques, and stage by 20th and 21st century composers. Audio recordings are available for many of these works. In addition to original works, there are also chamber arrangements of classical orchestral and operatic works. Browsable by composer, genre, and instrument. More Scores in the Public Domain Open Music Library Scores Variations (Cook Music Library, Indiana University) ChoralWiki Music Treasures Consortium Digitized Scores of the Sibley Music Library (Eastman School of Music) Physical Media CDs and DVDs are currently housed in the former Paddock Music Library and should be requested for pickup at Baker/Berry. CDs and DVDs will be moved to the Jones Media Center in October 2021. CDs are the preferred source for classical recordings. CDs often include useful liner notes written by the performer or a musicologist, which are a great springboard for further research on a piece of music or composer. CDs can be found in the Library Catalog by limiting the format to 'Audio Recordings' and doing a keyword search for the composer, performer, or title of the piece. Desktop computers in the library are equipped with CD and DVD drives. Headphones and external CD drives available for use with personal laptops may be borrowed from the Jones circulation desk. There are nearly 1,500 DVDs in our music collection. These recordings include operas, ballets, documentaries, movie musicals, and more. Our collection of nearly 10,000 vinyl records is housed in our off-site storage facility. The quickest way to browse titles is to do a keyword search for "33 1/3 rpm" in the Library Catalog, limiting the location to DLD (Dartmouth Library Depository). To request an item, click on the "Request" button next to the item's title in the catalog and select Baker/Berry as the pickup location. The record usually takes just one weekday to arrive in the library. Public record players are housed in the Jones Media Center. Streaming Audio Naxos Music Library Naxos is the world's largest online classical music library. This is a great resource for students in beginning music theory courses who need to complete a listening journal assignment. You won't have to determine whether a recording is amateur or professional because the labels in Naxos' library are reputable and established houses. You can keep track of recordings you use for your assignments using the Playlist feature, located in the tabs at the top of the homepage. IMSLP Includes nearly 500 public domain recordings of classical music, searchable by composer or performer name. Most of these recordings are no longer under the auspices of U.S. Copyright Law, and may be freely reproduced and manipulated. Streaming Video/Audio Met Opera on Demand Stream hundreds of opera productions on video from the Metropolitan Opera in New York City. Video recordings feature side by side English translations and allow you to quickly jump to your favorite arias and scenes with a simple click. You can also access radio broadcasts from the Met dating back to 1936. The Met Opera OnDemand website is also a great place for finding opera synopses. Berlin Philharmonic Digital Concert Hall Live stream concerts from the Berlin Philharmonic. Additionally, view concerts dating to 1966, interviews with principal artists, and documentaries chronicling the tenure of various conductors. Dartmouth provides this resource for free, but you will need to create an individual account before you can access content. Alexander Street Press: Music & Performing Arts Collection Search on this page to quickly access content across Alexander Street Press' many collections including the Classical Music Library, Classical Performance in Video, the Jazz Music Library, Smithsonian Global Sound, and more. Collections include thousands of audio and video of operas, ballets, classical and jazz concerts. Browse individual collections by composer, genre, instrument, or performer. Easily cite video in APA, Chicago, & MLA using the citation tool under the video player. Create video clips to embed on course websites, in PowerPoint presentations, or wherever you would like to use them for educational purposes under fair use guidelines. Special features like annotation, citation, playlists, and creating video clips require you to sign up for a free account. Links to individual collections are on the left navigation of this research guide. Hover over the info icon for more information about each collection. Youtube Classical concerts and recordings may be found for free on Youtube. However, be conscious that many of these recordings are shared without permission of the artists. Additionally, quality of recordings and performances will vary. When in doubt and researching a classical work, refer to Naxos or a CD version of the piece you are studying. Major Journal Databases for Classical/Art Music Performing Arts Periodicals Database Performing Arts Periodicals Database covers a broad spectrum of the arts and entertainment industry - including dance, drama, theater, stagecraft, musical theater, circus performance, opera, pantomime, puppetry, magic, performance art, film, television and more. International Index of Music Periodicals (IIMP) This index lists 800+ magazines and peer reviewed journals specific to music. Includes journals in historical musicology, ethnomusicology, computer music, music education, instrument specific performance, popular music, and more. Browse contents of individual issues by year. Retrospective Index to Music Periodicals with Full Text (RIPM) Includes music periodical articles with full text from 1800 to 1950. Répertoire International de Littérature Musicale (RILM) Abstracts of Music Literature RILM is a joint project of the International Association of Music Libraries, Archives, and Documentation Centres (IAML); International Council for Traditional Music (ICTM); and the International Musicological Society (IMS). Contains hundreds of thousands of articles and abstracts from both peer-reviewed and open access journals. Many abstracts for foreign language articles are in English and are keyword searchable. While some texts are available online, many must be requested through DartDoc. Browsing the Music Stacks Books on music are organized using the Library of Congress Call Number System, which divides music into three classes: M for printed music and recordings, ML for music literature, and MT for music theory. ML 1-112.5 General Topics ML1-5 Periodicals, Serials ML12-21 Directories, Almanacs ML25-28 Societies and other Organizations ML32-33 Institutions ML35-38 Festivals, Congresses ML40-44 Programs ML47-54.8 Libretti, Texts, Scenarios ML55-60 Addresses, Essays and Lectures ML62-89 Aspects of the field of music as a whole ML93-96.5 Manuscripts, Autographs, and Facsimiles ML100-109 Dictionaries, Encylopedias ML110-111.5 Music Librarianship ML112-112.5 Music Printing and Publishing ML159-3785 History and Criticism ML159-161 General Works ML162-197 By Period ML198-360.6 By Region or Country ML385-429 Biographies ML 410 Composers ML420 Vocalists and Solo Artists ML421 Musical Groups ML422 Conductors ML430-458 Composition and Performance ML459-1380 Instruments and Instrumental music ML1400-3275 Vocal music ML3300-3351 Program music ML3400-3465 Dance music ML3469-3541 Popular music ML3544-3776 Folk, National, and Ethnic music ML3780 Music on particular topics ML3785 Musical journalism ML3790-3792 Music Industry and Sound Recording Companies ML3795 Music as a Profession, Vocational Guidance ML3797-3799.5 Musical Research ML3800-3923 Philosophical and Societal Aspects of Music, Physics and Acoustics of Music, Physiological Aspects of Music ML3800 General Works ML3805-3817 Physics and Acoustics ML3820 Physiological Aspects ML3830-3840 Psychology ML3845-3877 Aesthetics ML3880-3916 Criticism ML3916-3918 Social and Political Aspects ML3919-3920 Moral Influence, Therapeutic Use of Music ML3921-3921.8 Religious Aspects ML3922 Music in the Workplace ML3928-3930 Literature for Children List source: http://libguides.bgsu.edu/c.php?g=227123&p=1505488 Some music-related materials fall into other LC classes, including the following: BV = hymns GV = dance music KF = music business, music law ND = art and music PN = film music PR = songs, ballads TK = recording technology and techniques* Next: Contemporary/Popular Music >> Last Updated: Feb 16, 2022 2:43 PM URL: https://researchguides.dartmouth.edu/music Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Music Tags: MUS Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy