Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Research Compliance and Training PCRI Symposium PCRI Symposium March 11, 2022 Columbia University and NYC Cosponsors hosted another PCRI Symposium on March 11, 2022. This day-long symposium addressed a variety of issues pertaining to credibility and rigor in a public health emergency, and diversity and trust in science, from the perspectives of leading experts, high-profile journal editors, funders, and researchers. Expand all Collapse all March 11, 2022 Videos Introductory Remarks and Session 1: Why Trust Science? Introductory Remarks given by Jeannette Wing (Executive Vice President for Research) and Katrina Armstrong (CEO, Columbia University Irving Medical Center) Session 1: Why Trust Science? Naomi Oreskes (Harvard University), a renowned historian of science trained as a geologist, talks about why science should be trusted, how to ensure its objectivity and quality, and how to promote trust in science. Introduction and moderated discussion led by Maureen "Mo" Raymo (Columbia University). Watch Recording Session 2: Diversity, Equity and Trust in Science Session 2: Diversity, Equity and Trust in Science This multidisciplinary panel will discuss the role of diversity and equity in promoting trust and credibility of science, including, for example, addressing bias in artificial intelligence, genomic research as a case study, diversity in clinical trial recruitment, and strategies to promote diversity across the research enterprise. Moderator and panelist: Jeannette Wing (Columbia University). Panelists: Vence Bonham, Jr. (Acting Deputy Director, National Human Genome Research Institute), Dana E. Crawford (Columbia University), and Jennifer Manly (Columbia University). Watch Recording Session 3: Rigor and Research Integrity in a Public Health Crisis Session 3: Rigor and Research Integrity in a Public Health Crisis A panel including researchers, journal editors, and public health leaders will discuss recent experiences and lessons learned in promoting rigorous COVID-19 research during the pandemic. Moderator: Marcia McNutt (President, National Academies of Sciences and former editor of Science). Panelists: Sri Devi Narasimhan (Deputy Editor, Cell), Arturo Casadevall (Johns Hopkins University), Wafaa El-Sadr (Columbia University), and Kathleen M. Neuzil (University of Maryland School of Medicine). Watch Recording Session 4: Communicating Science to Promote Understanding and Action Session 4: Communicating Science to Promote Understanding and Action In this round table, panelists will discuss what constitutes effective science communication, how such communication promotes trust in science and how it can prompt action on the issues of the day. Panelists will also provide approaches that researchers at all career stages can use to enhance their own science communication skills and enhance the credibility of science. Moderator: Chris Wiggins (Chief Data Scientist, New York Times; professor, Columbia University). Panelists: Dominique Brossard (University of Wisconsin), Sudip Parikh (CEO and Executive Publisher, Science Journals), Sylvester James “Jim” Gates (Brown University; President, American Physical Society), and Andy Revkin (Columbia University). Watch Recording Speakers Included: Naomi Oreskes Harvard University; Keynote Speaker); Marcia McNutt (President, National Academy of Sciences); Katrina Armstrong (CEO, Columbia University Irving Medical Center); Arturo Casadevall (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health); Sri Devi Narasimhan (Deputy Editor, Cell); Wafaa El-Sadr (Columbia University); Kathleen M. Neuzil (University of Maryland School of Medicine); Vence Bonham, Jr. (National Human Genome Research Institute); Dana E. Crawford (Columbia University); Jennifer J. Manly (Columbia University); Dominique Brossard (University of Wisconsin); Sylvester James "Jim" Gates (Past President, American Physical Society); Sudip Parikh (CEO and Executive Publisher, Science Journals); Andy Revkin (Columbia University); Chris Wiggins (Columbia University); and Jeannette Wing (Executive Vice President for Research, Professor of Computer Science, Columbia University). PCRI Symposium star icon 2022 Program group icon 2022 Speaker Biographies list-ul icon 2022 Bibliography envelope icon Contact Organizers twitter icon #PCRISymposium circle icon 2019 PCRI Symposium circle icon 2016 PCRI Symposium Resources Sign Up for PCRI Notifications NYC Cosponsors: New York University, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, The Rockefeller University, CUNY, and Weill Cornell Medicine Questions? Contact the organizers at [email protected] | Follow the conversation #PCRISymposium Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close