Skip to Content Office of Research Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Contact Office of Research Newsletter Syracuse University Cluster Hires Initiative COVID-19 ResourcesExpand Collapse section COVID-19 Research Facility Guidance Resuming Face-to-Face Human Participant Research Research-Related Travel Requests Visiting Scholar Requests For ResearchersExpand Collapse section Funding your research Internal Grant Programs Animal and human research Foreign Influence in University ResearchExpand Collapse section FAQs on Foreign Research Relationships Intellectual property and working with industry Find collaborators Researcher services and support Centers and institutes Trainings and presentations Syracuse University Research Partnerships Office of Research UnitsExpand Collapse section Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Protections Technology Transfer Proposal Support ServicesExpand Collapse section About Proposal Support Services Research Development Team Funding your research Internal Grant Programs Limited Submissions Sponsored Funding Opportunities Trainings and presentations Opportunities to Become a Peer Reviewer Proposal Support Services Inquiry Form The SOURCE – Undergraduate Research & Creative EngagementExpand Collapse section About The SOURCE For StudentsExpand Collapse section Register with The SOURCE SOURCE Funding Opportunities For FacultyExpand Collapse section SOURCE Funding Opportunities for Faculty Student Research Mentors Campus Partners Events News Giving Research News Search Search Bold questions, remarkable insights Featured Pages Sponsored Programs Proposal Support Services Technology Transfer Research Integrity and Protections Undergraduate Research & Creative Engagement Previous slide Next slide Research Clusters Accelerate the Impact of Emerging Technologies Link Syracuse University is harnessing the power of interdisciplinary partnerships to tackle some of society’s biggest challenges. Molecular Mystery Link Engineering professor probes the workings of the blood-brain barrier with goal that one day her research will help treat and cure brain-related diseases. Rising to New Heights of Innovation Link From extended reality to flying drones, journalism professor guides students as they explore new technologies for storytelling. Forests of Food in the City of Syracuse Link A unique inter-university partnership explores the potential for foods found in natural urban environments to answer community needs. News & Headlines 5th Round of CUSE Grants Awards $510,000 to 31 Projects May 25, 2022 The Office of Research is funding 31 CUSE grant projects [login required] this year in the fifth round of annual internal grants. The Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (CUSE grants) program is dedicated to growing the University- wide research enterprise, enhancing interdisciplinary collaborations and increasing both extramural funding and high-quality faculty scholarly output as… Funding Expands for Newhouse Professors’ Work on Technology to Combat Fake News May 18, 2022 Two professors from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications who are working on the development of technology to detect manipulated media and combat the spread of fake news are supported by a subcontract that now tops $1.1 million, thanks to a recent expansion. Jason Davis, research professor and co-director of the Real Chemistry Emerging Insights Lab,… Sociologist Shannon Monnat to Lead Maxwell’s Center for Policy Research May 16, 2022 A demographer and sociologist whose work focuses on population health will serve as the next director of the Center for Policy Research (CPR), the oldest interdisciplinary social science research program at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Shannon Monnat, Lerner Chair for Public Health Promotion and professor of sociology, will begin the position on… Read More News Events SOURCE: Making the Most of your Summer Research Experience (Virtual) June 8, 2022 at 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm Join SOURCE to discuss how to make your summer undergraduate research experience as successful as possible! Learn more about upcoming research skills workshops and opportunities to connect with fellow undergraduate researchers. SOURCE: Making the Most of your Summer Research Experience (In-Person) June 8, 2022 at 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm Bird Library Join SOURCE to discuss how to make your summer undergraduate research experience as successful as possible! Learn more about upcoming research skills workshops and opportunities to connect with fellow undergraduate researchers. SOURCE: Writing a Literature Review (In-Person) June 16, 2022 at 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm Bird Library Overview of the literature review genre; how to get started, develop a focus, organize your thinking and writing. Appropriate for students in all disciplines. SOURCE: Crafting a Research Elevator Speech (Virtual) June 28, 2022 at 11:30 am – 12:30 pm Bird Library Learn to write and polish your short (under 2 minute) synopsis of your research work – you’ll leave this workshop with a few versions for different audiences. A Guide to Resumes: Research Experiences (In-Person) July 7, 2022 at 11:00 am – 12:00 pm Bird Library Participating in research is an impressive accomplishment. In this workshop, we will go over the steps to describe your research on your resume and make it understandable to the masses. Our goal is to teach you how to craft bullet points for your resume focusing on research experiences, but also giving you the tools to apply this to any other accomplishments. SOURCE: Crafting a Research Elevator Speech (In-Person) July 13, 2022 at 1:30 pm – 2:30 pm Bird Library Learn to write and polish your short (under 2 minute) synopsis of your research work – you’ll leave this workshop with a few versions for different audiences. Full Event Calendar 226 Lyman Hall | Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315-443-2492 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy