Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Innovation › Contracts and Agreements Contracts and Agreements Contract Review and Approval Process for Research Agreements To ensure your research agreement is reviewed promptly, refer to the Research Agreement Responsibility Matrix which can be found here. This guide is intended to assist you in determining the appropriate parties responsible for processing your research agreement. The primary agreements handled by the OTCBD are included below: Confidential Disclosure Agreements (CDAs, NDAs) Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs) Corporate Sponsored Research Agreements (SRAs) Clinical Trial Agreements (CTAs) Data Use Agreements Option and License Agreements for Technology Transfer Each contract is reviewed to ensure the terms and conditions are appropriate for the university, including publication rights and intellectual property ownership, and complies with existing contractual obligations of the university. The standard process for submitting a contract to OTCBD is as follows: Processing Time: CDAs: Processing time for standard CDAs is approximately 2-3 weeks. Major items that are reviewed include ensuring invention disclosure forms have been submitted internally for potential Temple intellectual property (IP) as applicable, reviewing for any existing license agreements which may restrict the exchange of information, and determining the scope of the exchange. MTAs: Where appropriate, the University Biological Material Transfer Agreement (UBMTA) should be used for transferring materials between research institutions since Temple has agreed to the UBMTA terms and the implementation agreement can be processed in about 2 weeks. MTAs may take an additional 1-2 weeks depending on the issues since each request is reviewed to determine the original source of the material and for any restrictions on sharing the material with collaborators or other institutions to obtain permission to share and flow down the appropriate terms. Other items may include demands for data or IP rights from the material provider. These terms may also need to be negotiated to comply with Temple standards. If a foreign entity is involved, export control review will also be required. Data Use: Standard data use agreements are processed in 3-4 weeks Corporate SRA: Using Temple’s SRA form, industry funded research agreements can be finalized in approximately 30 days. Clinical Trials, Options/Licenses: Due to the complexity of these agreements, they require the most extensive review and negotiation. Processing time varies greatly for each agreement. Your contracts or licensing representative can provide expected processing time for each agreement. Signature Process: Only designated signatories of Temple University can sign contracts that involve the university. OTCBD submits all contracts to University Counsel for approval and requests signatures using TUmarketplace. Signatures are electronic unless a wet ink signature is requested. Agreement Templates: Standard forms are available upon request for the agreements listed above. Please email contracts@temple.edu to make a request. Contact us with any questions: Jeffery Tolliver, MBA Contract Manager Tel: 215-204-2109 Email: jeff.tolliver@temple.edu Go to top In This Section Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple