Skip to content MenuClose AboutToggle dropdown Office for Research & InnovationReporting OfficesAssociated OfficesCommitteesContactsEvents AboutToggle dropdown Office for Research & InnovationReporting OfficesAssociated OfficesCommitteesContactsEvents Policies Guidelines & Trainings SupportToggle dropdown Research AdministrationFunding and Research DevelopmentResearch Help SupportToggle dropdown Research AdministrationFunding and Research DevelopmentResearch Help ResourcesToggle dropdown Postdoc ResourcesGraduate Student ResourcesCOVID-19 Research Information ResourcesToggle dropdown Postdoc ResourcesGraduate Student ResourcesCOVID-19 Research Information Office for Research & Innovation IN THIS SECTION Office for Research & Innovation The Office for Research & Innovation (OR&I) has overall responsibility for facilitating the research enterprise at Duke and works to encourage and support the development, promotion, and application of Duke's intellectual property and our world-renowned researchers, students, and facilities. Leadership Jennifer Lodge Vice President for Research & Innovation jennifer.lodge@duke.edu (919) 681-6436 Christopher Freel Associate Vice President for Research christopher.freel@duke.edu (919) 668-4378 The Associate Vice President for Research works closely with Interim Vice President Williams on issues related to sponsored research compliance and research administration support services. This includes the development and implementation of efficient and effective policies and systems to streamline research and promote discovery by removing institutional barriers. Chris comes to the Office of Research after several years as the Associate Vice Provost for Research and the former Assistant Dean for Basic Research in the Duke University School of Medicine. As an administrator, he has concentrated on representing the broad interests and needs of the research community and worked closely with the Research Administration Continuous Improvement (RACI) initiative, a body committed to improving Duke’s research support structure to better serve our faculty and researchers. Chris earned an undergraduate degree in biology from Warren Wilson College and completed his doctoral studies in cell and developmental biology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He conducted his postdoctoral training in the Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology at Duke investigating the molecular mechanisms of programmed cell death and has published manuscripts in a number of cancer-related fields. Most recently, Chris earned an MBA from Duke's Fuqua School of Business. As Associate Vice President, Chris is committed to assuring that the services and resources offered through research administration meet the needs of the research community across Duke’s schools, institutes, and centers. Remote video URL Robin L. Rasor Associate Vice President for Translation & Commercialization robin.rasor@duke.edu (919) 681-6412 As Associate VP for Translation & Commercialization, Ms. Rasor oversees all functions of the tech transfer process at the University. Previously, Ms. Rasor was Managing Director of Licensing at the University of Michigan where she oversaw the licensing process ranging from management and marketing of disclosures to developing and negotiating appropriate licensing terms for license agreements, and finally to maintaining and monitoring existing agreements. Ms. Rasor is also a former Director of Licensing at The Ohio State University and former employee of Battelle Columbus Laboratories, a leading US contract research firm. Ms. Rasor has a MS in Genetics from The Ohio State University and a BS in Bacteriology and Zoology from Ohio Wesleyan University. She has earned the CLP (Certified Licensing Professional) credential and is past President and Chair of the Board of Governors of Certified Licensing Professionals, Inc. Ms. Rasor is a Past President of the Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM) Board of Trustees. She has also served on the Board of Directors, most recently as Treasurer, of the Ann Arbor Area Chamber of Commerce. In 2005, she was awarded the President’s Award for service to AUTM. In 2007, Ms. Rasor was part of the team headed by Michigan’s Dr. Arul Chinnaiyan honored by The American Association for Cancer Research in its first annual AACR Team Science Award. Remote video URL Geeta Swamy, MD Associate Vice President for Research Vice Dean for Scientific Integrity swamy002@mc.duke.edu (919) 681-5220 Dr. Swamy works with leaders across the Duke campus to provide a consistent vision for scientific integrity standards and expectations and drives efforts to ensure the advancement of scientific integrity. Her responsibilities include leading the Duke Office of Scientific Integrity (DOSI), which includes the Advancing Scientific Integrity, Services and Training (ASIST) initiative, conflict of interest disclosure and management, clinical research quality management, misconduct in research), and institutional research incident response. She also oversees the Duke Office of Research Initiatives (DORI) which works to facilitate effective research and collaborations for the Duke research community. Remote video URL George A. Truskey Associate Vice President for Research george.truskey@duke.edu (919) 660-5147 George A. Truskey is Associate Vice President for Research and Innovation and the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University. He received a BS degree in Bioengineering from the University of Pennsylvania and a PhD in Chemical Engineering from MIT. His current research interests include the response of cells to physical forces, cardiovascular and skeletal muscle tissue engineering, and the development of human microphysiological systems for disease modeling and drug and toxicity testing. He served as the Chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke from 2003-2011 during which he led efforts to obtain the endowment for the Coulter-Duke Translational Partnership. From 2011-2020, he was Senior Associate Dean for the Pratt School of Engineering and facilitated the expansion in research and faculty and development of new educational programs. He was president of the Biomedical Engineering Society from 2008-2010. He is the Editor-in-Chief of Current Opinion in Biomedical Engineering and is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES), the American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering, the American Heart Association and the International Academy of Medical & Biological Engineering (IAMBE). Remote video URL John Dolbow Assistant Vice President for Research john.dolbow@duke.edu (919) 660-5202 Professor John E. Dolbow came to Duke University from Northwestern University, where he received an MS and PhD in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics. During the course of his graduate study, John was a Computational Science Graduate Fellow for the Department of Energy, and he spent a summer working at Los Alamos National Laboratory. Dr. Dolbow's research concerns the development of computational methods for nonlinear problems in solid mechanics. In particular, he is interested in modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels. A native of New Hampshire, Dr. Dolbow received his Bachelor's Degree in mechanical engineering from the University of New Hampshire. Ed Pagani Assistant Vice President for External Partnerships ed.pagani@duke.edu (919) 684-3131 Staff Marnie Rhoads Senior Advisor to the Vice President for Research & Innovation marnie.rhoads@duke.edu Delores Nolen Executive Assistant to the Vice President for Research & Innovation delores.nolen@duke.edu (919) 681-6438 Delores Nolen is the Executive Assistant for the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation. Returning to Duke in 2001, after working in the corporate sector, she manages the general office activities. She performs advanced, diversified, and confidential administrative duties to relieve the Vice President of details regarding routine executive business matters. Delores has a B.S. in Business, with a concentration in Management and Operations from North Carolina Central University, and holds several professional certifications. She enjoys cooking and loves the beach. Mitch Melkonian Research Communications Specialist mitch.melkonian@duke.edu (919) 684-8699 Alyssa Dack Research Policy Manager alyssa.dack@duke.edu (919) 681-4334 Alyssa Dack is the Research Policy Manager for the Office for Research & Innovation (OR&I). Her affiliation with Duke stretches back to 2006, when she enrolled as an undergraduate and has also included serving with the Office of Government Relations in Duke in D.C., the University’s outpost in the nation’s capital and as the Research & Policy Coordinator for Research Costing & Compliance, focusing on managing policies relating to financial and administrative compliance for Duke University Research Administration. Prior to joining Duke’s staff, Alyssa worked as a legislative aide in the Office of Congressman Mike McIntyre (NC-7). She holds a B.A. in Public Policy Studies. Make a Gift Contact Our Office 119 Allen Building421 Chapel DrDurham, NC. 27708 Email research-office@duke.edu Phone 919-684-8690 Footer navigation Join Our Bi-Weekly Newsletter Get research stories delivered to your inbox 21 times per year!Sign Up TwitterInstagramYouTube Copyright © 2022 Duke University Web AccessibilityPrivacy PolicyTitle IX