Skip to main content University of Southern California USC Research Primary Menu About Research and Scholarship Research Administration Funding Training Events Announcements MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search About About Welcome Welcome to the Office of Research at the University of Southern California. Our mission is simple, to enhance research at the University of Southern California and our surrounding innovation ecosystem and ensure our research is compliant with government and university policies. Our team helps our community make astonishing discoveries, be creative, and translate research for the betterment of humanity. Here, you will find links to the resources, methods, and tools we provide to make this happen. Vice President of Research Ishwar K. Puri Learn more General Research at USC Learn about research at USC and the university’s strategic plans. Offices & People Find out who is leading the charge for research at the Office of Research. Committees & Working Groups The Office of Research works with various committees and groups. Assigning Authorship and Attributing Contributions USC is committed to fair and honest attribution of the contributions of each person creating research and creative works. Data Sharing, Privacy, Security and Open Scholarship At USC balancing privacy and transparency is essential. Diversity in Research USC’s priority is to conduct research that benefits all segments of society, by a broadly diverse and inclusive research community. Rigor, Transparency and Reproducibility USC supports open scholarship and research to maximize transparency, effectiveness and public benefits of our work. Office of Research Services Department of Animal Resources DAR provides and ensures appropriate care in all aspects of USC animal research. Department of Contracts and Grants DCG supports investigators from proposal development to award closeout. Institute for Creative Technologies ICT is a University Affiliated Research Center that merges film and game industry artists with computer and social scientists to study and develop immersive media. Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee IACUC oversees USC’s animal programs, facilities, and policies ensuring appropriate care, ethical use and humane treatment of animals. Office for the Protection of Research Subjects OPRS develops program-wide policies for the conduct and review of human subjects research at USC. Office of Research Advancement ORA helps investigators develop large-scale and interdisciplinary research proposals and informs them about federally-funded research programs. Office of Research Initiatives and Facilities ORIF manages internal award programs, limited submissions, shared resources and faculty training and mentoring. Office of Research Integrity The mission of ORI is to foster a culture of integrity within the entire USC research community. Research Technology Services RTS maintains and supports the systems diSClose and iStar for research compliance. USC Stevens Center for Innovation USC Stevens is USC’s technology transfer office and also leads corporate research collaborations. Research at USC’s Schools Division of Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC Keck School of Medicine of USC USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism USC Bovard College USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance USC Gould School of Law USC Iovine and Young Academy USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology USC Leventhal School of Accounting USC Marshall School of Business USC Mrs. T.H. Chan Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy USC Roski School of Art and Design USC Rossier School of Education USC School of Architecture USC School of Cinematic Arts USC School of Dramatic Arts USC School of Pharmacy USC Sol Price School of Public Policy USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work USC Thornton School of Music USC Viterbi School of Engineering Quick Links About Offices & People Announcements Research and Scholarship Research Administration Funding Limited Submissions COVID-19 Research Continuity Total Access for Research Administration Centers and Institutes Shared Resources Students and Postdocs Training Events Office of Research Services Department of Animal Resources Department of Contracts and Grants Institute for Creative Technologies Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Office for the Protection of Research Subjects Office of Research Advancement Office of Research Initiatives and Facilities Office of Research Integrity Research Technology Services USC Stevens Center for Innovation University of Southern CaliforniaContent managed by USC Research Twitter TwitterThe logo for the social media platform Twitter. LinkedIn LinkedInThe logo for the social media platform LinkedIn. Slack LinkAn icon of a link in a chain. YouTube YouTubeThe logo for video sharing platform YouTube. COVID Update 3/31: Starting April 4, Trojan Check will no longer be required, but all should continue to check symptoms whenever coming to campus. Click to learn more.