The University of Texas at Austin UT Research Showcase The University of Texas at Austin The Story of UT Research – from freshmen to global experts – in 14 schools and colleges representing more than 100 departments and centers. Search Our Site: Search Research Showcase Menu News Features Recognition Undergraduates Search Our Site: Search News Research news from across the 40-acres Jackson School of Geosciences 05/2022 Newly Discovered Lake May Contain a History of Antarctic Ice Sheet Scientists investigating the underside of the world’s largest ice sheet in East Antarctica have discovered a city-size lake whose sediments might contain a history of the ice sheet since its earliest beginnings. College of Natural Sciences 05/2022 Intersection of Accessibility and Computer Science Leads to Inclusive Tech This semester UT Computer Science welcomed Amy Pavel as a new assistant professor. Amy’s work sits at the intersection of accessibility and computer science. Her research at UT Austin expands on these themes by … College of Liberal Arts 05/2022 Local Rituals May Hold the Key to Improving Public Health Interventions The public health community often sees traditional medicine and associated health rituals as barriers to the acceptance of health interventions, but a new paper from an international team of researchers suggests … Cockrell School of Engineering 05/2022 Wastewater Testing for COVID-19 Resumes in Austin A team of University of Texas at Austin researchers has resumed testing Austin’s wastewater for signals of COVID-19 after the Texas Division of Emergency Management gave new funding for the project. Jackson School of Geosciences 05/2022 Tropical Forests Benefit Less from Elevated Atmospheric CO2 Than Thought According to a new international stud, the amount of carbon dioxide in the Earth’s atmosphere has only a small influence on changes in tropical ecosystems. College of Natural Sciences 05/2022 When Good RNA Turns Bad Biophysicist Dave Thirumalai and his team have developed a computer model that helps explain how certain kinds of RNA can clump together in a way that is correlated with neurological disorders. College of Education 05/2022 Faculty Grant Awards and Achievements: May 2022 The College of Education is home to world-class faculty members conducting high-impact research year-round. Our faculty members are awarded grants and fellowships on a regular basis, and this monthly list of awards … Cockrell School of Engineering 04/2022 UT Austin Selected for EcoCAR EV Challenge to Make Next-Gen Vehicle UT Austin is one of 13 university teams in North America set to participate in the EcoCAR EV Challenge, a prestigious collegiate competition to re-engineer state-of-the-art vehicles and prepare students for the future. College of Natural Sciences 04/2022 Supernova Reveals Secrets to Texas-led Team of Astronomers An international group of astronomers led by Benjamin Thomas of UT Austin has used observations from the Hobby-Eberly Telescope (HET) at the university's McDonald Observatory to unlock a puzzling mystery about a … Cockrell School of Engineering 04/2022 Plastic-eating Enzyme Could Eliminate Billions of Tons of Landfill Waste An enzyme variant created by engineers and scientists at The University of Texas at Austin can break down environment-throttling plastics that typically take centuries to degrade in just a matter of hours to days. Features Research stories on and off campus Dell Medical School 05/2022 Akhil Surapaneni: Advancing Brain Tumor Treatments Akhil Surapaneni is a part of a larger team of doctors, engineers and scientists at The University of Texas at Austin conducting a study investigating how to move critical brain functions away from surgical sites. Office of the Vice President for Research 04/2022 A Lifelong Researcher - Robert van de Geijn Pivotal figure at the Oden institute may have retired from UT Austin but still as busy as ever. Cockrell School of Engineering 04/2022 Gregory Rodin: The Intuitive Mathematician To Gregory Rodin, intuition is everything. The newly retired Professor Emeritus of the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at UT Austin and a core faculty member at the Oden Institute for … College of Natural Sciences 04/2022 Professor Layla Parast Aims to Improve Healthcare Using Biostatistics Meet new statistics and data science professor, Layla Parast, whose work in biostatistics aims to improve medical treatments and trial outcomes. College of Natural Sciences 03/2022 Computer Science Researcher Aims to Automate Software Development Isil Dillig is an associate professor of computer science who works to improve the security and reliability of software systems and automatically generate programs from high-level specifications. Dell Medical School 03/2022 Jeanne Kowalski-Muegge: Piecing Together the Puzzle of Cancer Genomics Dell Medical School professor Jeanne Kowalski-Muegge is creating tools to empower care teams in using precision medicine, ensuring that every patient has every treatment option possible at their disposal. Office of the Vice President for Research 03/2022 Modeling A Global Pandemic - Profile Lauren Ancel Meyers Over the last two years Lauren Ancel Meyers has become a household name across the United States. Her expertise in viral disease outbreak detection, forecasting, and control thrust her into the limelight as the world … Dell Medical School 03/2022 The Kids Are Not Alright Youth mental health is in crisis across the U.S. In Central Texas, meeting the need requires tackling the problem from all sides. Dell Medical School 02/2022 Esther Melamed: Neurologist Dedicated to Autoimmune Research Esther Melamed is an assistant professor at Dell Medical School’s Department of Neurology. Her research focuses on the neurological autoimmune diseases with the goal of improving prevention and treatment for patients. Cockrell School of Engineering 02/2022 John-Paul Clarke's Rules of Life: 'Do Fun and Challenging Things' How John-Paul Clarke’s rules of life led him to become an aviation expert, entrepreneur, and track and field official. Recognition Research awards & honors College of Liberal Arts 05/2022 Professor Anthony Di Fiore Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences The American Academy of Arts & Sciences (AAAS) announced that Anthony Di Fiore, professor of anthropology at UT, has been elected as a member. AAAS is one of the country’s oldest and most prestigious scientific societies. College of Natural Sciences 04/2022 NSF Awards Graduate Research Fellowships to 22 CNS Students This year, the National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship program awarded 22 fellowships to four undergraduate and eighteen graduate students in the College of Natural Sciences. College of Natural Sciences 04/2022 Sessler Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences Jonathan Sessler, a professor of chemistry at The University of Texas at Austin, has been elected to the prestigious American Academy of Arts & Sciences. College of Fine Arts 04/2022 UT Professor Beili Liu named 2022 Andrew Carnegie Fellow Professor Beili Liu has been named a 2022 Andrew Carnegie Fellow for her project Dreams of the High North: Between Survival and Belonging, Sculptural Exploration of Environmental Challenges Facing the Circumpolar North. Cockrell School of Engineering 04/2022 Two Students Win NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program Awards Zoelle Wong and Benjamin Diaz Villa in the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics have received 2022 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships. College of Liberal Arts 04/2022 History Professor Yoav Di-Capua awarded 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship The grant will support Di-Capua’s work on his upcoming book, The First Arabs: An Intimate History of Their Struggle for Dignity and the Aftermath of Defeat. Cockrell School of Engineering 04/2022 Professor Guihua Yu Elected as 2022 MRS Fellow Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Professor Guihua Yu, has been elected for the 2022 Class of MRS Fellows by the Materials Research Society (MRS). Office of the Vice President for Research 04/2022 CSEM Student Awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Casey Stowers, a second year CSEM student at the Oden Institute, has just been awarded a coveted National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF-GRFP) that will provide three years of funding. Jackson School of Geosciences 04/2022 JSG Students Win AGU’s 2021 Outstanding Student Presentation Award Once again, Jackson School of Geosciences students were among the top student presenters at the American Geophysical Union’s Fall Meeting. Office of the Vice President for Research 04/2022 Outstanding Dissertation Award Winner 2022 - Gopal Yalla Gopal Yalla began his thesis, “Numerical Discretization Effects in Large Eddy Simulation of Turbulence,” with the superbly terrible pun, “The journey through graduate school is often a turbulent one.” For this Yalla … Undergraduates Research by undergraduate students College of Natural Sciences 05/2022 Graduating Senior David Sarabia Found Passion for Research in FRI A first-generation undergraduate student from Mexia, Texas, David Sarabia is among the seniors graduating this month. On his way to receiving his bachelor of science degree in chemistry, Sarabia participated in the … Cockrell School of Engineering 05/2022 Students Collaborate on Aircraft Systems Design Lift and Drag Queens and Assuming Incompressible – for those familiar with senior aircraft design at UT Austin’s Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics (ASE/EM), these clever team names … College of Natural Sciences 04/2022 Three Undergraduate Students Named 2022 Goldwater Scholars Three undergraduate students from the College of Natural Sciences have been awarded the 2022 Barry Goldwater Scholarship, a prestigious national scholarship given to students pursuing careers in the natural sciences … College of Liberal Arts 12/2021 Two UT Austin Students Receive Prestigious Schwarzman Scholarship Isabel Ayala, an Asian studies and government senior, and Brendon Mak, a mechanical engineering senior, will pursue one-year master’s degrees in global affairs at Tsinghua University in Beijing. College of Natural Sciences 11/2021 All That Jazz: Improving Automated Piano Note Transcription Any fan of jazz music can attest to the beauty of musical improvisation. However, many famous improvisational piano pieces aren't recorded in sheet music. “There's a lot of music that exists in the world that doesn't … College of Fine Arts 10/2021 Art History Students Examine "Mystery Objects" from Leo Steinberg Prints Art History students come into the major hoping and expecting to learn more about, well, art and its history. But what does it mean to actually get your hands on different works of art, conduct research and make your … Cockrell School of Engineering 10/2021 This First-Year Student Invented a Fire-Fighting Robot Every once in a while, a young person already so accomplished comes along and makes you wonder aloud “what am I doing with my life?” Siddharth Thakur is one of those young people. Cockrell School of Engineering 09/2021 Key NASA Mission Gives Undergrads a Jumpstart into Research NASA is gearing up for a mission to land on Jupiter's moon Europa. This mission is one of a kind, and it's also created a unique opportunity for students in the Cockrell School of Engineering at UT Austin. College of Natural Sciences 08/2021 Natural Sciences Researchers Win President’s Award for Global Learning Five teams with College of Natural Sciences students were honored this year with the President's Award for Global Learning, which aims to highlight innovative solutions to global problems. Cockrell School of Engineering 08/2021 Sketchbook-Themed Amusement Park Design Sets Student Team Apart A team of Texas Engineering undergraduate students took a colorful approach to the 2021 Cornell Theme Park Design Competition and won two out of five competition categories, placing second overall.