Office of the Dean for Research Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Us Submenu Diversity, Equity and Inclusion About the Dean Vice Dean for Innovation Our Team Offices Committees Internships Submenu Laboratory Learning Program Submenu LLP Application Form Science Writing Internship Research Profile Submenu Initiatives Submenu Collaboration with Industry Innovation Funding Task Force on Administrative Workload in Research Technology Development Research Areas Research Reports Submenu Economic Impact Sponsored Research Technology Licensing Research Communications Submenu Research at Princeton Newsletter Stay updated The Princeton Researcher Newsletter News Innovation Submenu Corporate Engagement Entrepreneurship Submenu Entrepreneurship Education Incubators and Accelerators Startup Support Technology Transfer Funding Submenu Research Funding Gateway Dean for Research Funding Submenu Dean for Research Innovation Funds Submenu Collaborations between Artists and Scientists or Engineers Dean for Research Innovation Funds New Ideas in the Humanities New Ideas in the Natural Sciences New Ideas in the Social Sciences New Industrial Collaborations Eric and Wendy Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund Intellectual Property Accelerator Fund Princeton Alliance for Collaborative Research and Innovation (PACRI) Provost and Dean for Research Transformative Equipment Initiative Pivot Research Development Submenu Strategic Project Planning Collaborative Federal Proposals Faculty Research Forum Submenu Creating Culture Data Data Everywhere Early Career Awards External and Internal Funding Faculty Research Forum: Financial Management Faculty Research Forum: Finding Research Funding Faculty Research Forum: Research at Princeton Financial Management In the Public Eye Intellectual Property and Innovation Mentoring and Research Culture Regulations and Research Scholarship and Publishing Research Administration Submenu COVID-19 Information for Researchers Submenu COVID-19 FAQs COVID-19 Planning for the resumption of on-campus research COVID-19 Research FAQs COVID-19 Research News COVID-19 Research Operations Submenu Academic Research Infrastructure Plan Announcing the Phased Resumption of On-Campus Research COVID-19 Guidance for Human Subjects Research COVID-19 Research Town Hall COVID-19: Levels of research activities Guidelines for Resuming Field Research Submenu Field Research Plan Instructions Guidelines for the Resumption of Field Animal Research Next Steps in Resumption Activities in the Sciences and Engineering Next Steps in Resumption Activities in the Social Sciences and Humanities Plan for the Phased Resumption of On-Campus Research Research Lab Operations Plans (RLOP) Submenu Revised density guidelines for on-campus laboratory research Call for COVID-19 Research Proposals Halting on-campus research activities Research Essential Operations Plan Grants Administration Intellectual Property Compliance and Safety Ethics Facilities and Support Inappropriate Foreign Influence Diversity, Equity and Inclusion About the Dean Vice Dean for Innovation Our Team Offices Committees Internships Contacts Offices News Events Subscribe Log in Search Search Home About Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Action Plan Princeton’s Office of the Dean for Research is dedicated to fostering greater diversity and broader participation in research, innovation and entrepreneurship within the University and with academic institutions beyond Princeton. To address these goals, the Office of the Dean for Research created this diversity, equity and inclusion action plan, which launched in academic year 2021-22. The new initiatives provide opportunities for individuals from backgrounds that are underrepresented in research to conduct collaborative projects of mutual interest with Princeton faculty, grow mentoring networks, and build entrepreneurial skills to transform discoveries into technologies that benefit society. The programs come in response to Princeton President Christopher L. Eisgruber’s charge in June 2020 to senior academic and administrative leaders to develop plans to combat systemic racism. The initiatives bridge internal and external research communities through programs that provide opportunities in research, innovation and entrepreneurship for historically underrepresented groups, both at the University and in the United States more broadly. The three initiatives are: I. Research collaborations with minority-serving institutions Bringing together faculty-led research at Princeton and researchers at minority-serving institutions, a new program will foster and fund research and innovation collaborations in the sciences, engineering, humanities and social sciences. The new program, called the Princeton Alliance for Collaborative Research and Innovation (PACRI), will address the issue of equitable funding in research while training greater numbers of researchers and catalyzing discoveries that can benefit humanity. The program will offer opportunities for students at both institutions to engage with new faculty members, organize symposia, participate in innovation activities, and develop new skills. II. Mentorship through a distinguished lecture series A new distinguished lecture series featuring prominent underrepresented voices in research will offer opportunities for Princeton graduate students and postdoctoral researchers to build networks and gain mentoring opportunities. The Amplifying Voices Distinguished Lecture Series will bring inspirational figures in research, innovation or entrepreneurship to campus to deliver a public lecture. The series will offer mentorship and socialization opportunities for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers, including with those whose backgrounds have been traditionally underrepresented in research, innovation or entrepreneurship. The lectureship series aims to improve experiences for all graduate students and researchers, including those of underrepresented backgrounds, by enhancing the welcoming nature of the institutional campus climate and providing quality mentoring experiences. Speakers will be chosen by the graduate students and postdoctoral researchers in each academic division. III. Inclusive innovation and entrepreneurship The third initiative aims to boost representation of historically underrepresented groups in entrepreneurship to accelerate technology development and help reduce the wealth and opportunity gaps in American society. The creation of the Inclusive Entrepreneurship at Princeton initiative is an opportunity for Princeton to make a significant contribution to an entrepreneurship ecosystem that embraces talented scholars and entrepreneurs of all backgrounds. This fall, two new programs in Inclusive Entrepreneurship will launch: EMPOWER: An annual conference celebrating underrepresented minorities in entrepreneurship This annual conference series will bring together national thought-leaders in entrepreneurship to discuss and share practices that propel greater inclusion in the creation of new companies bringing emerging technologies to market for societal and economic progress. The conference is one way in which the University can help bridge the sources of inequity that suppress participation in entrepreneurship, bringing communities together to promote exchange of ideas. The inaugural conference, Empower 2021, held Sept. 23-24, celebrated Black entrepreneurs from throughout academia. The event convened national thought-leaders to share knowledge across the stages of university startups and provide networking opportunities with fellow founders and investors. The conference included a pitch competition featuring some of the nation’s best academic spinouts. START Entrepreneurs This new fellowship and accelerator program will fund and support entrepreneurial investigators from across all academic disciplines to translate University research into impactful new ventures. START entrepreneurs will spend the first 12 months on campus working with a Princeton University faculty member engaged in translational research. The entrepreneurs will then spend the next 18 months at the Princeton Innovation Center BioLabs where they will work full time as the founder of a new startup or non-profit organization. Throughout the program, founders will be supported by entrepreneurship education, mentorship and funding from Princeton University. The START program encourages applications from individuals who will contribute to the University’s diversity, broadly defined, including members of backgrounds underrepresented in academic entrepreneurship. University-wide resources Diversity, inclusion and anti-racism initiatives are high priorities at Princeton University. Visit inclusive.princeton.edu for campus-wide programs, resources and contacts. Related News New partnerships, programs and positions are part of Princeton’s ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism May 5, 2022 Princeton partners with UNCF and HBCUs to expand research and innovation May 4, 2022 Princeton provides annual update on diversity, equity and inclusion efforts Oct. 13, 2021 New Princeton Dean for Research initiatives aim to broaden inclusion in research, innovation and entrepreneurship Sept. 23, 2021 Footer Office of the Dean for Research New South Building, 5th Floor Princeton, NJ 08544 Phone: 609-258-5500 Fax: 609-258-5599 Email: dfr@princeton.edu Internships: lab-learning@princeton.edu Website feedback Footer menu Office of the Dean for Research Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations Laboratory Animal Resources Princeton Entrepreneurship Council Princeton Innovation Research and Project Administration Research Integrity and Assurance Technology Licensing Facebook Twitter YouTube Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University