Skip to main content Cornell Research Cornell.edu Research Services Search Cornell Connect With Us Follow Us On Twitter Follow Us On Facebook Subscribe RSS Feeds Enter a Search Term Clear Search Suggestions News & Features Life Sciences Medicine & Health Food & Agriculture Molecular & Cell Biology Genetics & Genome Science Brain & Behavioral Biology Physical & Mathematical Sciences Space, Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Chemical Sciences Physics Mathematical & Computer Sciences Technology Complex Systems & Engineering Nanoscience & Nanotechnology Energy Advanced Materials Biomedical & Biotechnology Information Science & Technology Information Science Communication & Social Networks Data Science High Performance Computing Social Sciences & Policy Social & Behavioral Sciences Public Policy Entrepreneurship & Management Law & Government Economics Arts & Humanities Literature, Classics & Language Visual & Performing Arts History & Culture Architecture & Design Ethics, Religion & Philosophy Multidisciplinary Environment & Sustainability Accelerator & X-Ray Science Global Matters Converging Humanities & Social Sciences Recently Funded Research Innovation in Action Life in the Lab Video Features More Graduate & Undergraduate Research Find a Center, Institute, Lab or Program Featured Researchers The Research Division 2021 Research Stats & Faculty Distinctions Search Research Services Search Cornell Connect With Us Follow Us On Twitter Follow Us On Facebook Subscribe RSS Feeds Alphabetical List Find a Center, Institute, Lab or Program Microvesicles_edit.jpg Beatrice Jin Cornell Center on the Physics of Cancer Metabolism The Cornell Center on the Physics of Cancer Metabolism is a multi-institutional effort to better understand the mechanisms underlying metastatic cancers and ultimately explore this understanding toward more effective treatments. The center’s initial focus is on triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). The expectation is that research findings and new technologies developed in the study of TNBC will be applicable to other breast cancers, prostate cancer, and pancreatic cancer. Led by Claudia Fischbach-Teschl, Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering, and Lewis C. Cantley, Weill Cornell Medicine, the center is developing a physical sciences approach to cancer research. “By studying a patient’s cancer cells in engineered models of the human body and monitoring these cells using advanced imaging approaches, our center generates unprecedented insights into cancer progression and therapy response,” says Fischbach-Teschl. “Integrating the engineering and physical sciences strengths available in Ithaca with those of the Meyer Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medicine in New York City will be critical to ultimately translate these insights into improved therapies.” Cancer cells must push through physical barriers in the body in order to spread. As researchers learn more about the forces at play—how cancer alters cellular mechanics and physical microenvironments—new possibilities for treatment emerge. The center coordinates multiple research projects that together will elucidate functional links between aberrant biochemical signaling and changes in the physical microenvironment that are characteristic of metastatic cancer. To achieve its objectives, the center is developing physiologically relevant culture models and new imaging techniques that will advance research in the physical mechanisms of cancer metabolism. The center is also training interdisciplinary scientists, promoting engagement between trainees and cancer advocates, and providing resources for patients and survivors. This all serves the center’s ultimate goal—to improve the care and clinical prognosis of breast cancer patients. Participating institutions include Cornell University, Meyer Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medicine, MD Anderson Cancer Center, and University of California, San Francisco. Funding is provided by the National Institutes of Health. A_D_White_House_080[1]_edit.jpg Provided Society for the Humanities The humanities are disciplines focused on critical engagement with society and culture, representations of global experience in art and literature, constructions of meaning across space and time, and the demands of ethics and truth. These disciplines change constantly, keeping pace with rapid transformations in communication, mass culture, the arts, science, technology, and the economy. The Society for the Humanities fosters innovative humanities research at Cornell, providing a collisional, interdisciplinary space for dialogue and collaboration among undergraduates, graduate students, Cornell faculty, and scholars from around the world. The Society for the Humanities, located in the A.D. White House on Cornell’s Ithaca campus, holds weekly seminars, offers regular lectures and conferences, hosts visiting scholars, and supports undergraduate, graduate, postdoctoral, and faculty research through grants, fellowships, workshops, and courses. Each year the Society chooses a theme to instigate creative approaches to matters of urgent concern. Regarding the 2019–2020 theme, Energy, the Society writes, “our modes of dwelling on and sharing the planet (not only with fellow humans) require sustained reflections on energy: its history, uses, and abuses; its relation to progress and colonialism; its futures as well as its costs.” Dominic Boyer, Brent Hayes Edwards, Cymene Howe, and Kathi Weeks—Invited Society Scholars for 2019–2020—join the Society’s faculty, graduate, and postdoctoral fellows. Courses for Energy include Zombies of the Anthropocene, Global Currents: (Im)mobility and Multi-Sited Ethnography, Atmospheric Pressures: Climate Imaginaries and Migration in the Caribbean, and The Energy Transition in the Nineteenth Century. “As a multidisciplinary research hub with an international reach,” Paul Fleming, the Taylor Family Director, comments, “Cornell’s Society for the Humanities has a long, recognized history of experimenting with new ideas and paradigms, questioning established traditions, and charting new directions in humanities research and theory.” For example, the Society recently received a million-dollar grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to launch Rural Humanities, an experimental initiative in public and engaged humanities—ranging from public-facing research to collaborative projects co-created with community partners. The mission of Rural Humanities is to revisit the urban-rural dynamic, which has re-emerged as one of the most contested dividing lines today, and to critically approach, learn from, and make visible contemporary rural America, particularly in central-western New York. As the sole land-grant Ivy League university with both a rural and an urban footprint, Cornell and the Society for the Humanities occupy a unique position geographically and historically to address this pressing issue with the emerging tools of public and engaged humanities. Cornell’s Society for the Humanities was established in 1966 as one of the first humanities research institutes in North America. WCM_Iadecola_BMRI_Milestones_2018_008.jpg John Abbott Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute (BMRI) The Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute (Feil BMRI) at Weill Cornell Medicine is an academic unit with departmental privileges dedicated to improving pathogenic mechanisms, diagnosis, and treatment of brain disorders. The Feil BMRI pursues a combined research and teaching mission, with a commitment to bridging the translational gap between research and clinical settings. Basic and clinical neuroscientists work side by side, sharing ideas, resources, and technology. The Feil BMRI supports bench-to-bedside research, cutting-edge clinical trials, and development of new preventive and diagnostic tools. As home to the Neuroscience Graduate Program at the Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, the Feil BMRI is educating the next generation of scientists and physician-scientists working in the neurosciences. Research at the Feil BMRI uses state-of-the-art tools to probe different facets of brain structure and function, from synaptic transmission to network activity, physiology of neural systems, and behavioral function. Through patient-oriented research programs, the Clinical and Translational Neuroscience Unit (CTNU) and the Center for Neurogenetics at the Feil BMRI bring research findings to patients’ bedside, developing new diagnostic techniques and therapies for clinical application for neurodevelopmental, neurovascular, and neurodegenerative diseases. “Over the past six years the Feil BMRI has established itself as the main driver of basic and translational neuroscience research at Weill Cornell Medicine, with a major national and international impact,” says Costantino Iadecola, director of the Feil BMRI and the Anne Parrish Titzell Professor of Neurology. “The credit goes to our faculty whose dedication to scientific discovery and commitment to improving human health have put our department on the map. We are also extremely grateful to the Feil family, whose vision and generosity enabled the establishment of the Feil BMRI, and to the Weill Cornell Medicine leadership for their continued support and encouragement.” The Feil BMRI’s multidisciplinary faculty includes 50 members with primary appointments, and 35 with primary appointments in other departments at Weill Cornell Medicine, including Neurology, Biochemistry, Anesthesiology, Pharmacology, Physiology and Biophysics, Psychiatry, Medicine, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Radiology, Pediatrics, and Neurological Surgery. In addition to the CTNU, an integral part of the translational mission of the Feil BMRI are three institutes and centers: the Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer’s Disease Research Institute, the Judith Jaffe Multiple Sclerosis Center, and the Center for Neurogenetics. The Feil BMRI was established in 2013 through a gift from the Feil family. 0739_10_110_select.jpg Lindsay France (UPHOTO) Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research The Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research (BCTR) in the College of Human Ecology furthers research in the social and behavioral sciences, bridging the gap between research and outreach. The center helps scholars translate their knowledge into programs, evaluate those programs, and loop the knowledge back to their research. The BCTR recently received a $2.8 million grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish the Center for Creating Trauma-Informed Residential Settings through the Residential Child Care Project—a longtime program of the Bronfenbrenner Center. Martha Holden, a senior extension associate and project director in the College of Human Ecology, leads the project. The grant aims to help children who have experienced trauma and adversity by teaching and implementing trauma-informed, evidence-based models to their caretakers. Staff in these residential care agencies will be trained to provide developmentally enriched living environments, create a sense of normality, and improve the socio-economic and development outcomes for these children. Along with providing funding to implement changes, the grant also funds tools that allow researchers and facility staff to track and evaluate the program. “The Residential Child Care Project has long been recognized as a leader in terms of developing techniques that keep our most vulnerable children—and those who care for them—safe and in showing how these techniques work in the real world,” says Christopher Wildeman, Policy Analysis and Management, and director of the BCTR. “The thing that’s so exciting about this grant is that it shows what a research leader the Residential Child Care Project is, and it provides them with an even larger platform for showing practitioners what the best research indicates and generating even more excellent research.” The Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research was established in 2011. Its inception brought together programs and resources previously housed in the Family Life Development Center and the Bronfenbrenner Life Course Center. 20181002-143409_edit.jpg Dave Burbank Roper Center for Public Opinion Research The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at Cornell University is a non-profit, non-partisan public opinion data archive that enables researchers to better grasp what public opinion is and ensures that the views of the public are preserved properly. It is one of the world’s leading archives of social science data, specializing in public opinion surveys from the 1930s to today. On October 1, 2018, the center received a grant for $1.425 million from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to construct a Health Opinion Database. This project leads to the most comprehensive database in the world for survey questions related to health. It allows the public to access tens of thousands of survey questions from 1935 to the present, related to the public’s values, beliefs, experiences, and attitudes about heath and what influences health. Data visualization tools will be created to help users understand trends over time. The Roper Center maintains the world’s largest archive of survey data, including over 700,000 survey questions of samples from the United States and more than 23,000 datasets from over 100 countries. Its goals are to promote the informed use of survey research and public opinion information, maintain and constantly enlarge a web-based library of survey research and public opinion data, develop access tools for researchers, increase international understanding, and promote cross-national research on political and social issues. The Roper Center’s survey data is available to academics, policy researchers, press, businesses, and other interested parties. “In addition to supporting public opinion research and social science education around the world,” says Peter Enns, Government, and executive director of the center, “The Roper Center helps foster and support a vibrant interdisciplinary research community at Cornell, enhancing research on topics, such as health care, elections, information science, the environment, and more.” The Roper Center was established in 1947 at Williams College and moved to Cornell University in 2015. It is supported by media polling units and research organizations that donate their data. The center has been a resource for countless books, articles, and media stories. Research Centers, Institutes, Labs and Programs Filter by All TopicsLife Sciences-Medicine & Health-Food & Agriculture-Molecular & Cell Biology-Genetics & Genome Science-Brain & Behavioral BiologyPhysical & Mathematical Sciences-Space, Earth & Atmospheric Sciences-Chemical Sciences-Physics-Mathematical & Computer SciencesTechnology-Complex Systems & Engineering-Nanoscience & Nanotechnology-Energy-Advanced Materials-Biomedical & BiotechnologyInformation Science & Technology-Information Science-Communication & Social Networks-Data Science-High Performance ComputingSocial Sciences & Policy-Social & Behavioral Sciences-Public Policy-Entrepreneurship & Management-Law & Government-EconomicsArts & Humanities-Literature, Classics & Language-Visual & Performing Arts-History & Culture-Architecture & Design-Ethics, Religion & PhilosophyMultidisciplinary-Environment & Sustainability-Accelerator & X-Ray Science-Global Matters-Converging Humanities & Social Sciences Center for Analytic Economics Center for Applied Math (CAM) Center for Bright Beams Center for Conservation Social Sciences Center for Data Science for Enterprise and Society Center for Enervating NeuroImmune Disease Center for Global Health Center for Historical Keyboards Pages << 2 3 4 5 6 >> Diversity and Inclusion Find a Center, Institute, Lab or Program 2021 Research Stats & Faculty Distinctions Graduate & Undergraduate Research The Research Division Cornell's Research Leadership and Contacts Explore News & Features Recently Funded Research Innovation in Action Life in the Lab Discover Something New Today Copyright Cornell Research 2015–2022 Contact Us Cornell Twitter Facebook RSS Feeds