Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Innovation › Temple Policies Policies & Guidelines Temple University Invention and Patent Policy The Invention & Patent Policy was first approved in 1985 to encourage the development and commercialization of inventions arising from University research. Invention rights covered by the Policy include both intellectual property rights (such as patent rights) as well as tangible property rights (such as biological materials). The Net Income Distribution Policy for each invention can be found here. The Policy is administered by the Office of Technology Development and Commercialization (OTDC) under the jurisdiction of the Invention and Patent Committee, an eight-person group that includes five faculty members nominated by the Faculty Senate (one of whom serves as chair). The Committee is charged with ensuring that the objectives of the Policy are met, but is not involved in deciding whether the rights to any particular invention are accepted by the University or in selecting commercialization strategies. Sometimes, the Committee issues Invention & Patent Policy Guidelines to assist in the implementation of the Policy. Note: The Policy prohibits inventors from entering into any agreements (such as consulting agreements) that may be contrary to the Policy's objectives, particularly with respect to the preservation of the University's intellectual property rights. Invention and Patent Committee (IPC) Appointed by Temple University's President, the IPC is charged with reviewing intellectual property policy matters including ownership, royalty distribution and conflicts of interest. Visit Section 6 of Temple's Invention and Patent Policy for further information on the IPC. Visit the Faculty Senate site to see members of the University Invention and Patent Committee. In This Section Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple