Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Offices Vice President for Research Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Office of Biosafety Department of Comparative Medicine Human Research Protection Office & IRBs Sponsored Projects Administration Institutional Biosafety Committee Research Compliance Office of Research Proposal Development Office of Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property Development Core Facilities Funding Opportunities External Funding Opportunities Corporations & Foundations Grant Opportunities Additional Resources Supporting Impactful Publications Program News & Events Research News Our Team Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Our Team Our Team Office of Research Organizational Chart John Christie Executive Director, Office of Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property Development jchrist@tulane.edu (504) 988-6962 John is responsible for the overall management, supervision, and planning of activities within the office, including the patenting, marketing and licensing of all university technology. John oversees the development and implementation of programs to create a comprehensive inventory of Tulane's intellectual property, identify promising technological developments, and foster industry-sponsored research liaisons. Georgina Dobek, DVM Director, Department of Comparative Medicine gdobek@tulane.edu (504) 988-5211 Georgina oversees the laboratory animal care facilities on the uptown and downtown campuses, and serves as the Attending Veterinarian for the Tulane University IACUC. She is responsible for veterinary and technical support of the research activities at Tulane University and institutional compliance with animal welfare regulations, standards, and policies. Sheila Garrison Director, Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee sgarriso@tulane.edu (504) 988-6868 Sheila Garrison serves as the Director for the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) office which provides support for the New Orleans Campuses and Tulane National Primate Research Center IACUCs and research community. She works with IACUC members to execute the committees’ mission, which is to ensure the humane care and use of animals in research in a manner compliant with government guidelines and regulations. Sheila ensures that committee members and IACUC office staff work together to provide assistance to investigators with the submission, planning and conducting of animal protocols in accordance with the highest scientific, humane and ethical principles. Roxanne R. Johnson, MSPH, CHRC Director, Human Research Protection Office and Program rjohnson@tulane.edu (504) 988-2665 Roxanne oversees the Human Research Protection Program, which is charged with protecting the rights and welfare of human research participants. Her office, the Human Research Protection Office (HRPO), works with the Institutional Review Boards (IRB) to assure that Tulane University is compliant with its efforts to protect the safety and well-being of human research participants in accordance with federal guidelines, regulations, and institutional policies. She ensures that all research activities are compliant with acceptable standards and responsive to good research practices. Kathleen Kozar Director, Sponsored Projects Administration kkozar@tulane.edu (504) 988-5207 Kathy assists faculty in identifying sponsors for research support, provides advice on proposal development, assists in preparing proposal budgets, serves as the Authorized Organizational Representative for both paper and electronic proposal submissions, and develops and implements policies involving the financial and administrative aspects of sponsored projects. Anne-Marie Jacob Job, PhD Director, Office for Research Proposal Development ajacob@tulane.edu (504) 988-3290 Dr. Anne-Marie Job (she/her/hers) serves as Director of Research Proposal Development at Tulane University. She draws from her own experience in biomedical research, scientific writing, and proposal development to assist faculty in the preparation and submission of complex federal grant proposals for large, multi-investigator research programs or centers, primarily in the areas of medicine, public health, engineering, and physical, biological, and social sciences. Dr. Job holds BSE, MS and PhD degrees in Biomedical Engineering from Tulane University. Angela Birnbaum Executive Director of Biosafety, Biocontainment Operations and Quality Assurance birnbaum@tulane.edu (504) 988-0300 (985) 871-6511 Angie works together with the Institutional Biosafety Committee to ensure the safety of personnel and facilities engaged in research involving biological materials at Tulane University. The objective of the Office of Biosafety is to minimize the health risk to those involved in research utilizing recombinant DNA, infectious agents, and biological toxins, and in turn to protect the greater Tulane University community, the general public, and the environment. In addition, Angie also oversees the safety of biocontainment operations of the high containment facilities as well as quality assurance supporting rigor and reproducibility in research. Brian J. Weimer, JD Director, University Research Compliance Office bweimer1@tulane.edu (504) 988-1147 As the University Research Compliance Officer (RCO), Brian and the RCO team members assist researchers and university review committees in ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, university policies, and accreditation standards that are applicable to research activities, including: 1. Research Integrity/Research Misconduct 2. Training in Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) 3. Responding to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and public records requests 4. Export Controls 5. Undue foreign governmental influence compliance 6. Resolution of compliance matters and questions regarding Human Subjects Research, Animal Welfare, Institutional Biosafety Committee, and requirements of sponsoring agencies and entities 7. www.ClinicalTrials.gov compliance 8. Assistance with obtaining licenses for sing Controlled Substances in research Additionally, Brian holds an instructor appointment in the Tulane University School of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine. Gail Louis Assistant Vice President for Research glouis@tulane.edu (504) 988-7947 Gail Louis serves as Assistant Vice President for Research, with more than 20 years of experience as an investigator and research administrator at Tulane. Gail provides planning and support for a wide variety of projects, and administrative support for the Health Sciences Leadership Council and the Tulane Research Council. She is an alternate for the Research Compliance Office for the Biomedical Institutional Review Board (IRB), the Social Behavioral IRB, and a representative of the Office of Research on the research compliance and research integrity teams. Gail represents the office at appropriate meetings and conferences within and outside Tulane. She provides support for internal funding competitions and other activities related to faculty development. Gail also works with the Vice President of Research to prepare grant proposals, white papers, and other reports developed by the office. Melissa Bender Executive Assistant mbender@tulane.edu (504) 988-3291 Melissa Bender serves as the Executive Assistant to the Vice President for Research and has been at Tulane for 18 years. Melissa provides administrative assistance to the vice president and other staff members in the Office of Research, as well as coordinating logistics for events, including the annual Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards. Alan Clerk Senior Department Administrator II aclerk@tulane.edu (504) 988-5403 Alan Clerk received his BBA in Economics and Finance from Loyola University New Orleans and MBA from Tulane University. Alan serves as the Senior Department Administrator II in the Office of the Vice President for Research. He works in partnership with the Vice President for Research, Assistant Vice President for Research, and Unit Directors in the Office of Research to develop and oversee budgets and finances of all Office of Research units. He also coordinates and administers all Human Resources activities for the Office of Research units. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University