Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home 2018 Research News 2018 Research News Assessing the Impact of the Partial Federal Government Shutdown The partial federal government shutdown that began at midnight on December 21 continues, and will likely impact Georgia Tech as the new year begins, though the effects won’t be felt across the board. Federal government agencies receive funding through a series of appropriations bills. A number of these bills, including those that fund the… 3-D Printed Heart Valve Models Honored in International Competition A Georgia Institute of Technology and Piedmont Heart Institute project to create tissue-mimicking heart valve models using advanced 3-D printers has been named one of the best new technologies of the year in an international research and development competition. The project was among the recipients of the 56th annual R&D 100 Awards, which… Chemical Separations Researcher Named to National Academy of Inventors The National Academy of Inventors (NAI) has included School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Professor William J. Koros among 148 academic inventors elected as NAI Fellows in 2018. Koros, who develops energy-efficient separations technology, is the Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar in Membranes and holds the Roberto C. Goizueta… Tech Watching for Possible Federal Government Partial Shutdown As students, faculty, and staff leave campus for the holidays and semester break, Georgia Tech officials will be keeping a watchful eye on Washington, D.C. There, negotiators will be working to head off a partial federal government shutdown that could affect campus at the start of spring semester. Federal government agencies receive funding… Study Finds Dramatic Growth in Numbers of “Supporting Scientists” on Research Teams As university research has become more complex and interdisciplinary, laboratory teams have grown in size, with increasing numbers of specialists in such areas such as statistical analysis, electron microscopy or mass spectrometry. A paper published December 10 in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences takes a closer look at… Shape-Shifting Origami Could Help Antenna Systems Adapt On The Fly Researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology have devised a method for using an origami-based structure to create radio frequency filters that have adjustable dimensions, enabling the devices to change which signals they block throughout a large range of frequencies. The new approach to creating these tunable filters could have a variety of… Swapping Bacteria May Help ‘Nemo’ Fish Cohabitate with Fish-Killing Anemones Nemo, the adorable clownfish in the movie Finding Nemo, rubs himself all over the anemone he lives in to keep it from stinging and eating him like it does most fish. That rubbing leads the makeup of microbes covering the clownfish to change, according to a new study. Having bacterial cooties in common with anemones may help the clownfish cozily… No Bleeding Required: Anemia Detection Via Smartphone Biomedical engineers have developed a smartphone app with the aim of non-invasive detection of anemia. Instead of a blood test, the app uses photos of someone’s fingernails taken on a smartphone to determine whether the level of hemoglobin in their blood seems low. The researchers published their results on Tuesday, December 4, 2018, in Nature… Catalog of Cosmic Cataclysms Helps Establish Gravitational Wave Astronomy In February 2016, astronomers shook the scientific world with the announcement that they had observed gravitational waves from a cataclysmic event in the distant universe — the collision of two massive black holes, celestial objects so dense that not even light can escape from them. Gravitational waves, hard-to-see ripples in the fabric of space… Four Georgia Tech Faculty Members Named AAAS Fellows Four Georgia Tech faculty members have been named 2018 fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Election as AAAS Fellow is an honor bestowed upon AAAS members by their peers. This year 416 members have been awarded this honor by AAAS because of their scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN