Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Research Administration › Pre Award Management › Funding for Your Project Find Funding for Your Project Where to Find Funding One of the missions of the Pre Award Management team is to assist faculty in identifying funding sources for intellectual research. The most up up-to-date information is available via the Web and we encourage faculty to make use of the many electronic tools available for locating funding opportunities Temple University subscribes to several funding opportunity databases. The databases listed below provide the ability to search for funding by key words and other selection criteria. In additional to searches for funding, the databases such as PIVOT and SPIN have the capabilities to search for collaborators in your field. All databases are fairly intuitive but none are all inclusive. Where possible, all databases have direct links from their records to funding entity web sites for primary source information and/or e-mail sites for direct communication. Some allow you to select from their keyword thesaurus and/or do free-text searching. Be sure to sign up for the email alert notices where available. In particular, PIVOT allows funding opportunity alerts to be targeted to individual research interests based on a faculty profile. PIVOT (formerly Community of Science) provides many services to Temple faculty including targeted funding opportunity alerts, an expertise database and other services. Search funding opportunities: http://pivot.cos.com/funding_main Sponsored Program Information Network - SPIN Find Funding link within ERA: SPIN provides web based information resources and searchable databases for federal and non-federal funding opportunities. It includes the InfoEd Commerce Business Daily and a SPIN keyword thesaurus. It also provides listings of upcoming deadlines and allows you to customize your own e-mail notifications of funding information. SPIN, for Temple users, can only be accessed from within ERA using your Accessnet Login: https://era.temple.edu Grants.gov: This is a site maintained by the Federal government that has the ability to search for Federal government-wide grant opportunities. The National Institutes of Health, Office of Extramural Research: This site provides links to a wide variety of information about grants and funding opportunities offered by the National Institues of Health and it awarding components. National Science Foundation: NSF provides a searchable system of information about grants programs. U.S. Federal Government Challenge: The Federal gov. agencies offer prizes to researchers for finding innovative solutions to various types of problems. Private & Corporate Sources Of Support The Office Corporate and Foundation Relations works in conjunction with Grants Management to identify foundation and corporate support. For assistance in identifying funding sources in the engineering, physical sciences, social sciences, humanities, medical and life sciences, please contact the Corporate and Foundation Relations or Office of Research Administration. Foundation Directory Online– This is resource is available through the Temple University Library. Contract Opportunities (formerly Federal Business Opportunities) In This Section Roles and Responsibilities Grants Forms and Templates Key Guidelines & Resources Funding for Your Project Processing Awards Subaward Processes and Forms Meet Our Staff Pre Award Management Assignments Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple