Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of the Vice President for Research Main Menu In this section About Who We Are Facts and Stats Centers and Institutes Experts and Media Faculty Resources Partnerships Home Student Research Opportunities Niblack Research Scholars Program Student Research Opportunities Student Research Opportunities Cox Graduate Fellowships Niblack Research Scholars Program About John Niblack Current Scholars How to Apply Former Niblack Scholar Recognitions Research Day at the Capitol Undergrad Research Symposium Information for Applicants Frequently Asked Questions Information for Flash Talk Presentations Information for Mentors Information for Performing, Visual Arts, and Design Presentations Information for Poster Presentations Learn More How to Apply About John Niblack Current Niblack Research Scholars Recognitions Received by Former NRS Niblack Research Scholars Progam The Niblack Research Scholars (NRS) program provides support to Oklahoma State University undergraduates to conduct research in one of OSU’s research laboratories under the general guidance of a member of the research faculty and with day-to-day mentoring by a graduate student. A comprehensive research university like OSU is in a unique position to offer undergraduate students an exciting academic experience outside the traditional classroom. The purpose of this award, made possible by the generosity of Dr. John Niblack, is to give outstanding students an appreciation of scientific research in a laboratory environment at an early stage in their academic careers. Research experience is invaluable in helping the students choose a career path for themselves, in improving their likelihood of success in the workforce, and in helping the students decide if graduate school is the correct choice for them. These awards are not intended to provide faculty members with assistants, but to provide students with a valuable educational experience not available to most undergraduate students. Research Areas Research areas available for this award are: Animal and Food Sciences; Biochemistry and Molecular Biology; Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering; Chemical Engineering; Chemistry; Electrical and Computer Engineering; Entomology and Plant Pathology; Geology; Integrative Biology; Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering; Microbiology and Molecular Genetics; Natural Resource Ecology and Management; Nutritional Sciences; Physics; Physiological Sciences; Plant Biology, Ecology, and Evolution; Plant and Soil Sciences; and Veterinary Pathobiology. Eligibility Eligible students are those (a) enrolled full-time, (b) having earned at least 28 credit hours (i.e., cumulative graduation/retention credit hours) at the start of the program, (c) conducting research in one of the above areas, and (d) having a degree plan with the antcipated graduation date of December 2023 or after. Expectations Scholars are assigned to research activities with a faculty sponsor and a graduate student mentor who provide professional guidance, encouragement, and direction. The research project and schedule are determined between the scholar and faculty sponsor. Scholars spend a minimum of two to five hours per week working with their assigned mentors in a hands-on laboratory environment during the fall and spring semesters. During the summer, a minimum of 20 hours per week for two months in the laboratory is expected. Although, the total hours agreed upon with the faculty sponsor are dependent upon other activities (e.g., enrollment, etc.), the expectation is full-time participation for two months. The specific two-month period during the summer is negotiable between the scholar and the faculty sponsor. The program offers two schedules: Schedule A is a summer/fall/spring program; Schedule B is a fall/spring/summer program. Scholars must commit to return the following October to orally present their research to Dr. Niblack during his annual visit. Requirements Scholars must enroll in three hours of academic credit (1 hour each fall, spring, and summer semester). A UNIV 2910 Niblack Research Scholars course is established each semester for this purpose. Scholars must report to their faculty sponsor by the end of the first week of the semester or the award will be terminated. Students must maintain full-time enrollment status during the fall and spring semesters (minimum of 12 hours). A brief status report will be required before the subsequent semester’s stipend is approved (due to the Division of the Vice President for Research in January and May). Awards are renewed for the subsequent semester pending satisfactory progress and performance. A final report will be due in the Division of the Vice President for Research by mid-August. Scholars must return the following fall and participate in Niblack Research Scholars Day by giving oral presentations of their research to Dr. Niblack during his annual visit. Awards Scholars receive a stipend of $2,000 per semester for the academic year (i.e., fall and spring semesters) and $4,000 for two summer months ($8,000 total). NRS must commit to working in a laboratory for fall and spring semesters and two summer months. Awards will be credited to the scholar’s bursar account by September 1, February 1, and June 15 (pending satisfactory progress and performance). The graduate student mentor receives a research assistantship stipend of $2,100 (received during June and July; 2 x $1,050/month). These awards are not intended to provide faculty members with assistants, but to provide students with a valuable educational experience not available to most undergraduate students. The amount of the award does NOT include lab supplies or expenses. Scholars are often given the opportunity to continue working with faculty researchers beyond this award, at the discretion of the faculty sponsor. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©