Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Resources Online Research Systems Online Research Systems Below are the various online systems, both internal and external to the University, that are used heavily during research. Finding Funding Pivot Pivot connects researchers to financial support by leveraging the most comprehensive global source of sponsored funding opportunities, coupled with scholarly profiles to match researchers with financial partners and collaborators. See Finding Funding using Pivot for more information. Proposal Development & Sponsored Projects See Proposal Submission Systems for all information on submitting grant proposals through SPA. Go there first! Grants.gov All federal grants will eventually be required to be submitted through Grants.gov NSF FastLane For electronic submission of NSF grants NIH eRA Commons NIH requires that applicants review the grant proposals submitted via Grants.gov in the NIH eRA Commons. This web portal is also used to review the status of grant applications, and submit NIH progress reports NIH RePORTER This searchable database is a great resource for researchers planning to submit a biomedical research grant application. Use it to identify funded research topics, read the abstracts of funded grant proposals, identify researchers when conducting literature searches, etc. proposalCENTRAL Many foundations, non-profit, and other private sponsors use proposalCENTRAL as the portal for grant submissions. Research Administration Rascal RASCAL is web-based application developed to simplify the University's research compliance and research administration processes. It is designed to help researchers and administrators manage ongoing research projects and related compliance activities here at Columbia. ARC The University's financial system, ARC (Accounting and Reporting at Columbia) LabArchives Electronic laboratory notebooks (ELNs) help researchers to manage the results of research efforts, record and document research processes and procedures, and manage digital research data. More information is on the LabArchives at Columbia website. StudyManager StudyManager creates and tracks study financials, tracks research patient visits and procedures and provides data for auditing Clinical Trials RecruitMe RecruitMe is a recruitment tool meant to connect those who want to participate in clinical trials or research studies to the researchers that are conducting them. To begin using RecruitMe all you have to do is search for a medical condition or research field that interests you and then answer a few eligibility questions and the researcher will get right back to you. Home Sponsored Projects Administration University Compliance Hotline Phone: 866-627-3768 Contact Contact SPA-eBiz for assistance obtaining access to online proposal development/submission systems. Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday - Friday. (212) 851-4368 [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close