Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Organization Organization The Research Enterprise Support Network Our research enterprise support network extends far beyond the departments that have the word Research in their title. Research leadership from across the Institute steers teams of central and departmental research administration and development experts together in support of our researchers. Want to know more about how each of these groups contributes in supporting research at Georgia Tech? Leadership – The research leadership team works in concert with the College Deans and School Chairs to advance the research agenda. The Associate Deans of Research (ADR) are an integral linkage between the colleges/units and central research support teams. The ADRs are: College of Computing – Tom Conte College of Design – Nancy Green Leigh College of Engineering – Krista Walton College of Sciences – Laura Cadonati Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts – Aaron Levine Scheller College of Business - Saby Mitra Georgia Tech Research Institute – Erica Briscoe Professional Education – Stephen Harmon Commercialization Office of Technology Licensing - This team manages invention disclosures, intellectual property decisions including patents, and licensing and technology transfer functions on behalf of the Institute and the Georgia Tech Research Corporation, the latter is a 501(c)3 affiliate organization and is assignee of intellectual property created at Georgia Tech. VentureLab - VentureLab supports Georgia-based start up businesses by providing guidance, funding, and best practices information- all, at no cost to the business. Corporate Engagement - The Corporate Engagement team advocates for Georgia Tech by building broad-based, long-term institutional partnerships between the Institute and the corporate community. If you’re looking to partner with Georgia Tech as a means to engage and recruit top students, this is the first stop. Enterprise Innovation Institute - The Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) is Georgia Tech’s business outreach organization and serves as the primary vehicle to achieve Georgia Tech’s goal of expanded local, regional, and global outreach in the area of economic development. (EI2) includes the following units: Economic Development Lab - The Economic Development Lab (EDL) helps communities and organizations apply innovative ideas to economic development. Georgia Advanced Technology Ventures - Georgia Advanced Technology Ventures (GATV) is a Georgia non-profit corporation that is organized and operated exclusively as a supporting organization to and for the benefit of the Georgia Tech. Its primary purpose is to foster and support education, scientific research, and economic development throughout the state of Georgia. Occupational Safety & Health Services - Occupational Safety & Health Services (SHES) provides outreach, education, and consultation to Georgia small businesses. Georgia Manufacturing Extension Partnership - The Georgia Manufacturing Extension Partnership (GaMEP) works with manufacturers to innovate, increase top-line growth Helps manufacturers increase top-line growth and reduce bottom-line costs through strategic planning, innovation management, process improvement, ISO standards, sustainability, and energy services. Advanced Technology Development Center - The Advanced Technology Development Center (ATDC) The state of Georgia’s technology incubator that helps entrepreneurs learn, launch, scale, and succeed in the creation of strong, viable startups in Georgia. Federal Relations - The Federal Relation team promotes Georgia Tech among federal decision-makers, and national education and research policy organizations. The team advocates for strong support of federal research funding, federal financial aid programs, and Georgia Tech faculty participation in federal advisory roles. Foundation Relations - The Foundation Relations team promotes Georgia Tech research by engaging with the philanthropic community. Georgia Tech Research Institute - The Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) is the nonprofit, applied research division of Georgia Tech. GTRI research laboratories include: Advanced Concepts Laboratory Aerospace, Transportation & Advanced Systems Laboratory Applied Systems Laboratory Cybersecurity, Information Protection, and Hardware Evaluation Research Laboratory Electro-Optical Systems Laboratory Electronic Systems Laboratory Information and Communications Laboratory Sensors and Electromagnetic Applications Laboratory Georgia Tech's Research Corporations - The Georgia Tech Research Corporation (GTRC) is the contracting entity for all sponsored activities for colleges and other units at Georgia Tech that are not part of the Georgia Tech Research Institute, the applied research division of the institute. It also licenses all intellectual property developed at Georgia Tech through its Office of Industry Engagement. The Georgia Tech Applied Research Corporation (GTARC) provides contracting, grant, and research administration services for the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), a business segment of Georgia Tech committed to applied research. Global Center for Medical Innovation - The Global Center for Medical Innovation (GCMI) is a fee-for-service provider advising Fortune 500, start-up, academic and government-funded innovators to accelerate the development, testing, and commercialization of medical products and devices. Grants and Contract Accounting - The Office of Grants & Contracts Accounting (GCA) provides post award accounting and reporting services related to sponsored programs managed, by all academic units of the Institute, excluding the Georgia Tech Research Institute, which has its own financial support unit. Interdisciplinary Research Institutes - Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (IRI) bring together a mix of researchers – spanning colleges, departments and labs – around a single multi-disciplinary research area. Most IRIs offer grant proposal support services for multi-PI proposals within their area of interest. Some also offer core equipment centers. Pediatric Technology Center - The Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Pediatric Technology Center (PTC) brings clinical experts together with Georgia Tech scientists and engineers to develop technological solutions to problems in the health and care of children. The Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Pediatric Technology Center provides extraordinary opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration in pediatrics, creating breakthrough discoveries that often can only be found at the intersection of multiple disciplines. Research Development - The Office of Research Development provides strategic guidance as well as practical support for development of large-scale research funding proposals. Research Integrity Assurance - The Office of Research Integrity Assurance (ORIA) team works with faculty oversight committees and boards to promote the ethical conduct of research and to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements relating to research involving human subjects, vertebrate animal subjects, rDNA, synthetic nucleic acids, and Dual Use Research of Concern. Sponsored Programs - The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) provides guidance in developing, processing, and submitting formal proposals and grant applications for sponsored research. The Office also assists with post award contracting and grants administration education and outreach. Departmental/Unit Research Support Teams – Colleges, schools, and other larger research-focused units frequently have their own dedicated pre- and post-award support teams. These teams collaborate with researchers and other central research support units such as the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, the Office of Sponsored Programs, and Foundation Relations, to ensure successful timely submission of grant proposals and reporting. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN