Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Sponsored Projects Administration Award Setup Award Setup After receipt of a new sponsored award or non-competing continuation from a sponsor, the SPA Financial Analyst (FA) will prepare the award for spending. The FA will work with the academic department to finalize the sponsored project budget. Once finalized, the project is set up in the grants management system, InfoEd, where the information is then fed to Accounting & Reporting at Columbia (ARC). This page describes what is needed for account setup. To learn more about ARC, there are many job aids, web-based and instructor-led trainings offered by Finance. See https://www.finance.columbia.edu/content/training. Expand all Collapse all Items needed for Account Setup The following documents are necessary for account setup. Your SPA Financial Analyst will contact you if any of the following items are missing: New Awards, Competing Awards and Contracts Notice of Award (NOA) or fully executed contract The original application The Finalized Rascal Proposal Tracking (PT) Record – electronically signed by relevant parties, with up-to-date FCOI disclosure and certification and approval information FCOI certification from subcontractors or consultants (if applicable) Notice of IRB approval, IACUC approval, or other related compliance office (if applicable) Detailed Budget Non-competing Multi-year Awards and Contract Amendments Notice of Grant Award (NGA) or fully executed Contract Amendment Updated list of personnel on the study Updated Rascal PT Record –electronically signed by relevant parties, with up-to-date FCOI disclosure and certification and approval information FCOI certification from subcontractors or consultants (if applicable) Copy of Progress Report Notice of IRB approval, IACUC approval, or other related compliance office (if applicable) Award Setup Form We need the following information completed on the Department Award Setup Form: Level 8 Department Number Initiative Segment You should provide your SPA Financial Analyst with a completed Department Award Setup Form. Please reference this example completed Award Setup Form. Understanding ARC Projects & Activities ARC Project: captures transactions associated with a specific funding source for the purposes of billing and reporting. It must have a start and end date and is owned by a specific department. All projects are set up with activities to further define a budget period or scope of work. A project number will remain the same for the life of a competitive segment of an award. ARC Activity: At least one activity is required for each sponsored project in ARC. The activity further defines a budget period or scope of work and helps researchers and administrators manage their funding over the life of a project. Unlike projects, multiple activities may be created throughout the life of a project, depending on its complexity and any restrictions and carryover funds from year to year. The SPA Financial Analyst will set up awards in InfoEd as projects and activities, which can be accessed in ARC the next business day. Access to Sponsored Projects in ARC There are two types of access to sponsored projects in ARC – by department or by role: Access to all sponsored projects in a department. A request for this type of access needs to be initiated by the Departmental Authorization Function (DAF) Administrator through the Financial Systems Security Application (FSSA) in Service Now. Access to a specific project or activity. Certain roles on a project or activity team have automatic access to the reports in ARC. These include the PI on the project team or the Scope-I on the activity team. To request access to a specific project or activity for other individuals, the DAF must submit a Financial Inquiry Application in Service Now. The Report Access or Activity Report Access role is then assigned to the individual. Any role which provides report access at the project level allows the user to see reports for the project and all associated activities. Please note: Roles allowed on the Project team ONLY are as follows: PI, Report Access, Fellow, Co-I, and Other Key Personnel. Roles allowed on the Activity team ONLY are as follows: Scope-I and Activity Report Access. How to Run a Project Information Notification (PIN) Report in ARC Finance Gateway Job Aid: How to Run a PIN Report (rev. March 2017) Home Sponsored Projects Administration University Compliance Hotline Phone: 866-627-3768 Find Your SPA Project Officer or Financial Analyst SPA Department Assignments SPA Internal Forms Obtain necessary SPA forms Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close