Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Georgia Tech Researchers Develop Wireless Implantable Vascular Monitoring System Georgia Tech Researchers Develop Wireless Implantable Vascular Monitoring System May 11, 2022 — Atlanta, GA Woon-Hong Yeo and his research team have developed a new wireless, electronic vascular monitoring system - a smart stent. Vascular diseases are public enemy number one: the leading killers worldwide, accounting for nearly a third of all human deaths on the planet. Continuous monitoring of hemodynamics – blood flow through the vascular system – can improve treatments and patient outcomes. But deadly conditions like hypertension and atherosclerosis occur in long and twisting vascular system with arteries of varying diameter and curvature, and existing clinical devices are limited by their bulk, rigidity, and utility. Georgia Institute of Technology researcher Woon-Hong Yeo and his collaborators are trying to improve the odds for patients with development of an implantable soft electronic monitoring system. Their new device, consisting of a smart stent and printed soft sensors, is capable of wireless real-time monitoring of hemodynamics without batteries or circuits. “This electronic system is designed to wirelessly deliver hemodynamic data, including arterial pressure, pulse, and flow, to an external data acquisition system, and it is super small and thin, which is why we can use a catheter to deliver it, anywhere inside the body,” said Yeo, whose team released its study this week in the journal Science Advances. Yeo added, smiling, “It’s like a stent with multiple tricks up its sleeve.” For example, when this device is installed in a patient with atherosclerosis, in addition to expanding and preventing the artery from narrowing, like a traditional stent, restoring normal blood flow, it will also provide a constant flow of data. “Now, once you have deployed a stent, you’re not sure if the problem was resolved and patients may come back with the same issue,” Yeo said. “It can be a defect of the stent, or an issue with stent deployment, or perhaps a problem with the patient’s blood flow.” And the current standard way to monitor all of that is with an angiogram. That can be expensive and in rare instances, particularly with patients also struggling with diabetes, the dyes and radiation used in angiogram imaging can cause cancer. Yeo’s system seeks to circumvent the need for an angiogram or other imaging requirements. His wireless smart stent platform, integrated with soft sensors, is operated by inductive coupling to offer wireless real-time monitoring that can detect a wide range of vascular conditions. Inductive coupling uses magnetic fields for wireless energy transfer. It’s similar to what’s happening when you use a wireless charger for your phone, smartwatch, or other devices – they are gaining energy from the magnetic field created by the charger. “Basically, you can put this sensor system anywhere inside the body,” Yeo explained. “The other thing about this technology platform is, in addition to being an implantable sensor system, it can be used as a wearable system. Think about a smartwatch and how much of its bulk is taken up by circuits or batteries. If you remove all of that, you have a device that is thinner than a typical Band-Aid, an almost invisible health monitor that you can wear anywhere.” That’s the long-range goal, anyway. So far, they’ve tested their wireless implantable system on animal models. However, there is still plenty of work to do. And Yeo also has the backing of the National Science Foundation to advance the technology. He recently received a 3-year, $400,000 grant from NSF focused on his printed nanomembrane sensors and bioelectronics for wireless and continuous monitoring of vascular health. “We believe that the mechanical, material, and electrical design principles we develop, and the engineering and biosensing framework that results from this work, will advance the field of implantable electronics and biomedical systems,” Yeo said. “And the insights and knowledge we gain will be applicable for other physiological processes and challenges in biomedical science and engineering.” CITATION: Robert Herbert, Hyo-Ryoung Lim, Bruno Rigo, Woon-Hong Yeo. "Fully implantable wireless batteryless vascular electronics with printed soft sensors for multiplex sensing of hemodynamics." Science Advances (May 2022) DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abm1175 COMPETING INTERESTS: Hyo-Ryoung and Yeo are the inventors for a pending U.S. patent application related to the work described here. The authors declare that they have no other competing interests. FUNDING: American Heart Association (grant 19IPLOI34760577), National Institutes of Health (NIH R03EB028928). This smart stent can continuously monitor arterial pressure, pulse, and flow. Contact Contact: Jerry Grillo Email jerry.grillo@ibb.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN