Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Vice President for Research Funding Research Research at the U Students Facts & Figures Historical Timeline Resources Resources Equity, Diversity, Inclusion COVID-19 Blog About Us About Us MEET THE VPR - ROTHWELL Staff Organizational Chart Research Administration Units Advisory Committees SearchReveal Menu Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home Funding Research Research at the U Colleges Students Facts & Figures Historical Timeline Resources Resources Research Deans COVID-19 Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Blog About Us About Us Meet the VPR - Rothwell Staff Organizational Chart Research Administration Units Advisory Committees Need help? Ask MyRA Subscribe to our newsletter icon Research Continuity Planning for Coronavirus (COVID‑19) Resources, guidelines, and updates to ensure research continuity at the UofU during the coronavirus (COVID‑19) outbreak. Schedule your COVID-19 Test Cultivating a national and international leading research community through excellence, innovation, and interdisciplinary research at the University of Utah. $641 Million in Research Funding FY 2021 2958 Awarded Grants FY 2021 #1 in Technology Venture Milken Institute 2017 963+ Thousand square feet for research space on campus All Facts & Figures New VPR Initiatives for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion in Research The Office of the Vice President for Research (VPR) is committed to enhancing equity, diversity, and inclusion in research and the U campus community. Learn more about Equity, diversity, and inclusion in research Funding Intramural funding opportunities through the Office of the Vice President for Research. Learn More about Funding Research Details on current research highlights, funding statistics, college and student research and more. LEARN MORE ABOUT Research Resources Information on compliance, training, collaboration opportunities, grant development and more. LEARN MORE ABOUT Resources Events May 31 Tuesday Ongoing through 6/1/22 Bike Month: Campus Scavenger Hunt May 31 Tuesday Ongoing through 6/1/22 Bike Month: Move Utah Strava Challenge May 31 Tuesday Memorial Day holiday May 31 Tuesday Meetups: Propose a Gathering or Activity at Lassonde Studios Lassonde Studios May 31 Tuesday 8am - 9am Geriatrics Clinical Conference - CAPSTONE Virtual - Zoom May 31 Tuesday 11:30am - 1pm Company Launch: Cohort Meeting (Invitation Only) Lassonde Studios Research News @ the U Bringing magma up to our feet—Just add CO2 Mount Erebus, Antarctica's only active volcano, offers clues to how magma and gases in some... Full Article Anti-cancer compound found in soft corals For 25 years, drug hunters have searched for the source of a natural chemical that had shown... Full Article The 2020 surge of anti-Asian hate language Clusters of hateful tweets spread across the contiguous U.S. that varied in size, strength... Full Article Need more information? Name Email Comments Vice President for Research 201 Presidents Circle Room 210 SLC, UT 84112 801-581-7236 Stay in Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U © 2022 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 9/10/21