Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home 2017 Research News 2017 Research News Want to Beat Antibiotic-Resistant Superbugs? Rethink Strep Throat Remedies Got a sore throat? The doctor may write a quick prescription for penicillin or amoxicillin, and with the stroke of a pen, help diminish public health and your own future health by encouraging bacteria to evolve resistance to antibiotics. It’s time to develop alternatives to antibiotics for small infections, according to a new thought paper by… WWII Code-Breaking Techniques Inspire Interpretation of Brain Data Cracking the German Enigma code is considered to be one of the decisive factors that hastened Allied victory in World War II. Now researchers have used similar techniques to crack some of the brain’s mysterious code. By statistically analyzing clues intercepted through espionage, computer science pioneers in the 1940s were able to work out the… One in Five Materials Chemistry Papers May be Wrong, Study Suggests Can companies rely on the results of one or two scientific studies to design a new industrial process or launch a new product? In at least one area of materials chemistry, the answer may be yes — but only 80 percent of the time. The replicability of results from scientific studies has become a major source of concern in the research community,… Gecko Adhesion Technology Moves Closer To Industrial Uses A gecko scampering up a wall or across a ceiling has long fascinated scientists and encouraged them to investigate how to harness lizard’s mysterious ability to defy gravity. While human-made devices inspired by gecko feet have emerged in recent years, enabling their wearers to slowly scale a glass wall, the possible applications of gecko-… Piezoelectric Tiles Light the Way for Kennedy Space Center Visitors New technology that could be used in self-powered smart cities of the future will soon be demonstrated at the NASA Kennedy Space Center’s Visitor Complex at Cape Canaveral, Florida. Ilan Stern, a senior research scientist with the Georgia Tech Research Institute, and colleagues, are collaborating on a $2 million project supported by NASA… Nanotexturing Creates Bacteria-Killing Spikes on Stainless Steel Surfaces By using an electrochemical etching process on a common stainless steel alloy, researchers have created a nanotextured surface that kills bacteria while not harming mammalian cells. If additional research supports early test results, the process might be used to attack microbial contamination on implantable medical devices and on food processing… Perking Up and Crimping the ‘Bristles’ of Polyelectrolyte Brushes If the bristles of a brush abruptly collapsed into wads of noodles, the brush would, of course, become useless. When it’s a micron-scale brush called a “polyelectrolyte brush,” that collapse could put a promising experimental drug or lubricant out of commission. But now a new study reveals, in fine detail, things that make these special bristles… Cold Suns, Warm Exoplanets and Methane Blankets Somewhere in our galaxy, an exoplanet is probably orbiting a star that’s colder than our sun, but instead of freezing solid, the planet might be cozy warm thanks to a greenhouse effect caused by methane in its atmosphere. NASA astrobiologists from the Georgia Institute of Technology have developed a comprehensive new model that shows how… IMPAX Program Accelerates Technology Transition into the Navy What if you had to wait eight years to get the great new cellphone technology your friends and neighbors were using today? That’s essentially the situation facing today’s warfighters, who must wait for long procurement cycles to bring them the latest technology. The U.S. Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR), Naval Air Warfare Center - Aircraft… Executive Vice President for Research Steve Cross to Step Down Georgia Tech’s Executive Vice President for Research (EVPR), Steve Cross, has announced plans to step down from that post at the end of June 2018. Cross, who has served as EVPR since that position was created in 2010, will then resume his research faculty position in the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), where he has twice served in… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN