Skip to Content Office of Research Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Contact Office of Research Newsletter Syracuse University Cluster Hires Initiative COVID-19 ResourcesExpand Collapse section COVID-19 Research Facility Guidance Resuming Face-to-Face Human Participant Research Research-Related Travel Requests Visiting Scholar Requests For ResearchersExpand Collapse section Funding your research Internal Grant Programs Animal and human research Foreign Influence in University ResearchExpand Collapse section FAQs on Foreign Research Relationships Intellectual property and working with industry Find collaborators Researcher services and support Centers and institutes Trainings and presentations Syracuse University Research Partnerships Office of Research UnitsExpand Collapse section Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Protections Technology Transfer Proposal Support ServicesExpand Collapse section About Proposal Support Services Research Development Team Funding your research Internal Grant Programs Limited Submissions Sponsored Funding Opportunities Trainings and presentations Opportunities to Become a Peer Reviewer Proposal Support Services Inquiry Form The SOURCE – Undergraduate Research & Creative EngagementExpand Collapse section About The SOURCE For StudentsExpand Collapse section Register with The SOURCE SOURCE Funding Opportunities For FacultyExpand Collapse section SOURCE Funding Opportunities for Faculty Student Research Mentors Campus Partners Events News Giving Research News Search Search Home Proposal Support Services Internal Grant Programs Internal Grant Programs Office of Research Programs Link CUSE Grant Program Link The purpose of CUSE (Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence) Grant Program is to enhance interdisciplinary collaborations, to grow the research enterprise and enhance scholarship at Syracuse University in order to increase extramural funding and high-quality scholarly output. The program is designed to support faculty in becoming competitive in securing external funding and sponsorship. CUSE Grants should not be viewed as funds to conduct or complete projects, but rather as seed funding for faculty to build interdisciplinary teams, to produce preliminary data, and/or to seek help to obtain extramural funding that will advance knowledge and technologies through basic, translational, and applied research. The grant program will support faculty research in all disciplines that span across basic, translational and applied sciences, social sciences, physical and life sciences, engineering, liberal arts, humanities, professional schools, creative research, and various forms of all scholarly activities. The expectation is for CUSE Grant Program-funded faculty members to seek extramural support that will increase the national and international recognition of the awardees, their programs, and the university. Small Equipment Grant Program Link Research infrastructure often becomes a limiting factor for routine operations of laboratories and research programs. This is particularly true with relatively small-size equipment because such equipment often is more expensive than is affordable on a research grant, but less expensive than those that can be funded through extramural equipment grant programs. The Small Equipment Grant Program is designed to strengthen research capacity and capability at Syracuse University. Up to $600,000 per year will be awarded through this mechanism as made possible by the Invest Syracuse Initiative. Postdoctoral Scholars Program Link The primary goal of the program is to provide financial incentive for programs/departments/schools/colleges to increase the number of postdoctoral scholars; the funding proposed for this program must be strategically leveraged to achieve this primary goal. A second goal of the program is to reward productive faculty by providing a financial incentive to grow their research program. Through this program, programs/departments/schools/colleges may allocate postdoctoral scholars funds to faculty members who generate a significant amount of extramural grants, contracts or academic scholarship. In addition, the growth of postdoctoral scholars on campus should increase mentoring capacity for undergraduate and graduate research. Previous Internal Funding Opportunities Link Travel Subsidy Program – Fall 2019 National Science Foundation Grants Conference DARPA D60 Travel Subsidy Program Undergraduate Research and Creative Works (URCW) Grant Program Other Syracuse University Programs Link Current Internal Funding Opportunities Link Art Museum Faculty Fellow Program – The Syracuse University Art Museum will pilot a new Faculty Fellows Program in Summer 2022. The Faculty Fellows Program supports innovative curriculum development and the fuller integration of the museum’s collection in university instruction. The summer 2022 pilot will focus on object-based teaching and research. It consists of a three-day intensive workshop from June 1-3, followed by Faculty Fellow presentations in August. Each Faculty Fellow will receive a $3,000 stipend or research subsidy, a hands-on introduction to the collection by museum staff, and ongoing curricular support. Deadline: May 18, 2022 Special Collections Research Center Faculty Fellows – Syracuse University Libraries’ Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) is accepting proposals for two Faculty Fellows who would like to provide students with an opportunity to handle, analyze and interpret SCRC’s primary source materials in their classes. Faculty interested in developing or revising a three-credit course to be taught in the Fall 2023 or Spring 2024 semester from any discipline on campus are encouraged to apply online to be selected as a Faculty Fellow. Deadline: June 24, 2022 Previous Internal Funding Opportunities Link Art Museum and the Renée Crown University Honors Program Faculty Fellows Program Campus as a Lab for Sustainability Center for Aging and Policy Studies (CAPS) Pilot Grant Program Central New York Humanities Corridor ICCAE Small Research Grants Program Lender Faculty Fellowship Program for the Advancement of Research on Conflict and Collaboration mini-grant program SyracuseCoE Faculty Fellows Program 226 Lyman Hall | Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315-443-2492 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy