Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Funding Opportunities The Office of Research focus is on making key investments in the UC research enterprise that will impact our local, national and global partners to advance multi- and trans-disciplinary initiatives in existing and emerging communities of research excellence at UC. Office of Research Funding Opportunities Due Date: 01/19/2026 Amount: N/A UC Research Conference Internal Funding Program The UC Research Conference Internal Funding Program provides supplemental support to UC researchers who wish to host national research conferences, focused symposia, or other forms of convenings around strategic research areas at UC. The event must be held at UC or in Cincinnati to be eligible for support. This funding program is intended to enhance our faculty’s ability to bring together researchers, community members, practitioners, policymakers, and other important collaborators whose expertise, substantive knowledge and practice, theoretical insight, or methodological expertise can be engaged in ways that help to build upon and advance research at UC. A maximum of $5000 may be requested. Apply Now to UC Research Conference Internal Funding Program Due Date: 01/31/2030 Amount: N/A Office of Research Major Proposal Support Program As part of UC’s Research2030 “Invest to Advance” strategic plan, we seek to support and enhance the competitiveness of our research enterprise for major funding opportunities. As a result, the Office of the Vice President for Research is pleased to announce Major Proposal Support Program, which will provide internal and external expert support for UC faculty who are targeting major, multi-year, competitive and prestigious funding opportunities.* Awardees will receive up to two waves of pre-submission review and editing of full proposals. Services include project management; expert coaching on program officer outreach and funder expectations; and proposal support in the form of hands-on review and revision services. Tenured- and tenure-track faculty (with at least 80% FTE) are eligible to apply. Awardees will be encouraged to begin drafting proposals upon receiving and accepting the award. If selected for this opportunity, the principal investigator will work with designated Office of Research staff to coordinate the engagement with the external team that provides the review and editing services. *The Office of Research appreciates the fact that what is considered a ‘major, highly competitive’ opportunity varies from field to field. Our aim is to increase competitiveness of UC faculty for significant external funding across all STEMM and AHSS disciplines. Show More Show Less Apply Now to Office of Research Major Proposal Support Program Related Documents: Request for Applications (RFA) Supplemental Document(s) Past Opportunities Due Date: 04/15/2022 Amount: $24,000 SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration - Graduate Students '22 The process of discovery contributes to our nation’s prowess in space exploration. In the Age of Discovery (circa 15th – 18th century), the leading nations of the day set out to explore what was unknown to them. The exploration of space will lead to greater understanding of the Earth and its place in the vastness of space. Humans living in space or on other celestial bodies will encounter new challenges in building societies. This includes not only sustainable physical structures but other critical aspects such as the formulation of exploration policies and new forms of civil society and governance in space. A prime directive of the Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration (SRIDE) at the University of Cincinnati (UC) is to foster growth in career paths that are aligned with our regional and national interests to discover and explore our universe with an emphasis on space travel and habitation. The Institute has established a Graduate Fellowship program – the SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration – to support students who show potential in advancing new ideas related to space discovery and exploration. The SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration is for graduate students pursuing their Masters or Ph.D. degrees. There are no limitations to the discipline or background of graduate students – applications from all areas are strongly encouraged. Key Dates 02/15/22 RFA Released 02/15/22 Application Portal Open 04/01/22 Application Due by 5 pm Eastern - extended deadline to [04/15/22] 04/25/22 Awardees Announced (anticipated) 08/15/22 Earliest Stipend Start Date (anticipated) Overall funding is available to support up to five $24,000 12-month graduate stipends. Note – these awards do not include tuition waivers. Show More Show Less Closed opportunity SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration - Graduate Students '22 Related Documents: Request for Applications (RFA) Supplemental Document(s) Due Date: 04/15/2022 Amount: $3,000 SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery - Undergraduate Students '22 The process of discovery contributes to our nation’s prowess in space exploration. In the Age of Discovery (circa 15th – 18th century), the leading nations of the day set out to explore what was unknown to them. The exploration of space will lead to a greater understanding of the Earth and its place in the vastness of space. Humans living in space or on other celestial bodies will encounter new challenges in building societies. This includes not only sustainable physical structures but other critical aspects such as the formulation of exploration policies and new forms of civil society and governance in space. A prime directive of the Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration (SRIDE) at the University of Cincinnati (UC) is to foster growth in career paths that are aligned with our regional and national interests to discover and explore our universe with an emphasis on space travel and habitation. The Institute has established an Undergraduate Fellowship program – the SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery – to support students who show potential in advancing new ideas related to space discovery and exploration. The SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery is for undergraduates with 1-2 years remaining in their academic degree program. Undergraduates of all majors are eligible and encouraged to apply for this Fellowship. Key Dates 02/15/22 RFA Released 02/15/22 Application Portal Open 04/01/22 Application Due by 5 pm Eastern - extended deadline to [04/15/22] 04/25/22 Awardees Announced (anticipated) 08/15/22 Earliest Stipend Start Date (anticipated) Overall funding is available to support up to six $3,000 fellowships each academic semester (starting this year with the Fall Semester 2022). Show More Show Less Closed opportunity SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery - Undergraduate Students '22 Related Documents: Request for Applications (RFA) Supplemental Document(s) Due Date: 04/11/2022 Amount: $15,000 University Research Council (URC) Faculty Research Pivot Awards '22 The Office of Research is pleased to share the 2022 FOA for the URC Faculty Research Pivot Awards Program. Building upon the rich legacy of the University Research Council (URC), UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding program, the URC Faculty Research Pivot Grants are targeted to mid-career and beyond faculty who are proposing transformative new ideas and directions for their research, scholarship and creative activities. This program is for individual faculty and may be discipline-focused or interdisciplinary in nature. All areas of research, scholarship, and creative activities across UC are eligible. This program will follow a two-stage application/evaluation process. The first stage involves submission of a Letter of Intent (LOI). Up to 10 finalists will then be invited to submit a full proposal and agree to a 15-minute presentation/Q&A to discuss their proposed activities. Grants: All grants will be for $15,000 and for a period of 18 months. Funds are expected to support the proposed activities and can include course relief, as necessary. Budgets will only be required from grantees and will be created in collaboration with the Office of Research. Up to five grants will be supported by this program. Unit Head Support: All applicants must provide a letter of support from their unit head documenting the proposed activities are a departure from the current, the availability of resources to conduct the proposed activities, and any necessary unit-level support for the faculty member should they be selected for a grant. KEY DATES 03/10/22 FOA released 04/11/22, 5:00 pm EST LOI Deadline 05/04/22 Finalists Notified (anticipated) 05/30/22, 5:00 pm EST Final Proposal Deadline (for finalists only) 06/03/22 Finalist Presentations: Week of June 3, 2022 (anticipated) 06/27/22 Grantees Announced: Week of June 27 2022 (anticipated) 08/01/22 - 01/31/24 Grant Project Period: August 1, 2022 – January 31, 2024 Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University Research Council (URC) Faculty Research Pivot Awards '22 Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) Due Date: 03/24/2022 Amount: $80,000 Michelman Green, Clean and Sustainable Technology Research Innovation Program Courtesy of the generous contributions of the Dr. John S. Michelman Fund for the Advancement of Sustainable Technology, the Office of Research is pleased to share the 2022 FOA for the inaugural offering of the Michelman Green, Clean and Sustainable Technology Research Innovation Program. This program supports applied R&D and use-inspired research with the potential to meaningfully contribute to improvements in environmental health, environmental stewardship and sustainability by demonstrating new and marketable scientific and technical (S&T) innovations intended to address real-world problems in the Green-tech and Clean-tech fields. This program will follow a one-stage, full proposal/application process. This program is open to UC faculty. Research teams may include additional researchers from beyond UC but funds cannot support personnel at any outside organizations or partners. Multi-disciplinary teams with expertise in chemistry, chemical engineering or materials science are strongly encouraged to consider this funding opportunity. Grants: Single Investigator applicants may receive up to $35,000, and multi-investigator* teams may receive up to $80,000 for these projects. The research team should define the performance period of the project – these may be no less than 6 months and no more than 18 months in length. Budgets will only be required from grantees and will be created in collaboration with the Office of Research. Final budget award amounts will be consistent with the timeframe and scope of the proposed activities. These funds are intended to accelerate applied research and development activities that can be externally sponsored. The Office of Research is dedicating up to $200,000 for this initial program offering in FY22. KEY DATES FOA released February 9, 2022 Zoom Webinar | WATCH HERE | PRESENTATION Proposal Deadline: March 24, 2022, 5:00 pm EST Grantees Announced: Week of April 18, 2022 (anticipated) Earliest Grant Project Start Date: May 16, 2022 (anticipated) * Multi-investigator teams as defined here must consist of no fewer than two UC faculty with a preference for faculty from across different departments/colleges. Show More Show Less Closed opportunity Michelman Green, Clean and Sustainable Technology Research Innovation Program Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) Supplemental Document(s) Due Date: 02/23/2022 Amount: $40,000 Office of Research Core Enhancement Grant Program Background and Purpose The UC Office of Research (OoR) understands that sustaining and refreshing core facilities is critical for future success of the research enterprise. As part of the Research2030 program strategy to Invest for Impact and Invest in Success, we are issuing this core development opportunity. For this internal grant program, a research core facility is defined to be inclusive of shared research facilities with government approved recharge rates. This program offers funding support to existing research core facilities to update equipment or software to expand their capabilities and impact to support current customers and to attract new customers. Funding Priorities, Eligibility, and Process The program is open to research cores in all UC Colleges except for the College of Medicine. The key priorities will include: 1) equipment/software that increases use of a facility by a broader range of UC investigators and/or external parties; 2) evidence that a lack of investment will result in loss of customer base and/or the ability to support grant-funded research projects. Software/hardware upgrades to meet UCIT network requirements are eligible for this award provided that the instrumentation involved has a significant customer base to justify the investment. Matching funds from other sources will be viewed favorably in the application. Applications will be reviewed by a panel of experts who will make recommendations for funding to the Vice President for Research. The number of proposals funded will be a function of funds available and the number of meritorious, qualified applications received. Awards of up to $40,000 are available, but requests should be limited to the minimal amount needed so that the impact of the overall funding pool can be maximized. Funds cannot be used for faculty/staff salaries or travel. Applications are limited to one proposal per core facility. Applications must be submitted via email to the Office or Research with the subject “core enhancement grant” by 5:00 pm on February 23, 2022. Email: research@uc.edu. Application Materials The following documentation must be submitted with the application: A description of the proposed project and justification on how this investment significantly enhances the core in terms of the funding priorities given above and the scope of investigators who will be supported by the upgrade. (Do not exceed 2 pages) An itemized budget and budget justification (Do not exceed 1 page) Deliverables Awardees will provide an update via a progress report to the OOR internal grant portal by September 30, 2022 with the initial impact on the core facility. A more detailed report will be due June 30, 2023 summarizing the use and return on investment (ROI). The ROI analysis should consider the following: increased usage of the facility, new proposals, and collaborations generated, and all forms of scholarly activity that are the direct result of the investment. If you have any questions, please contact Ken Greis at greiskd@ucmail.uc.edu; 513-558-7102. Show More Show Less Closed opportunity Office of Research Core Enhancement Grant Program Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) Due Date: 02/01/2022 Amount: N/A Office of Research Collaborative Research Advancement Program – Pilot Grants Consistent with Office of Research goals to spur interdisciplinary research and establish new partnerships within and beyond the institution, this program is designed to seed collaborative research endeavors to help develop research to the point where external funding can be obtained. The expected outcomes for this program: 1) Support interdisciplinary teams for achievement of greater success and prominence; 2) Advance high-potential, team research and creative activities in emergent areas; and 3) Increase teams’ competitiveness and capacity for major extramural awards and funding. This program follows a two-stage application/evaluation process. The first stage involves submission of a 2-page letter of interest (LOI). Up to fifteen finalists will then be invited to submit a full proposal and pitch at a pitch event that will be held from 10am-3pm on March 28, 2022. IMPORTANT DATES RFP Released/Web Portal Open: 12/09/21 LOI Due: 02/01/22 Review Period: 2/7-28/22 Finalist Notification: 03/7/22 Full Proposal Due (Finalist Only): 03/21/22 Pitch Event: 03/28/22 Review Period: 3/31-4/1/22 Notify Awardees: 4/11/22 Awardees Announced: 04/18/22 Earliest Program Start Date: 05/10/22 Show More Show Less Closed opportunity Office of Research Collaborative Research Advancement Program – Pilot Grants Related Documents: Request for Applications (RFA) Due Date: 12/16/2021 Amount: $10,000 Office of Research Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Advancement Program Award Expanding upon previous investments in arts, humanities and social sciences (AHSS), the Office of Research seeks to incentivize novel research, exceptional scholarship, and the production of creative and performing art works that address issues of increasing societal significance. This program will follow a one-stage, full proposal/application process. This program is open to UC faculty whose proposed activities fall within the areas of the arts, humanities and social sciences. Application budget limit: $10,000. Total Program Budget: $100,000; Up to 10 awards will be made. RFP Released: October 28, 2021 KEY DATES RFP Released: 10/28/21 Proposals Due: 12/15/21 by 11:59PM EST Review Period: 12/20 - 2/21/22 Finalists Notified: 3/1/22 Awardees Announced: 03/21/22 Program Start Date: 05/10/22 Closed opportunity Office of Research Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Advancement Program Award Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) Due Date: 12/15/2021 Amount: N/A Community Change Collaborative Grants - 2021 Theme: Equitable Cities The Community Change Collaborative connects and amplifies community-engaged research across UC by building a research community, providing support, and sharing knowledge. To reach these goals, the Collaborative seeks to incentivize interdisciplinary community-engaged research that contributes not only academic knowledge but also solutions to real-world problems. This funding opportunity supports research action teams comprised of faculty and community partners that will conduct pilot research to inform external funding proposals. This program will follow a one-stage, full proposal/application process. This program is open to teams of faculty from all UC colleges. Application budget limit: $20,000. The theme of this year’s funding is “Equitable Cities.” Research action teams will work towards the most pressing needs of Cincinnati and other urban communities. Applicants may look to the principles outlined by Wolff et al. 2017 in describing collaborative efforts contributing to equitable cities. RFP Opens: 10/28/21 Proposals Due: 12/15/21 (5pm EST) Show More Show Less Closed opportunity Community Change Collaborative Grants - 2021 Theme: Equitable Cities Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) Due Date: 12/02/2021 Amount: N/A University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Physical Sciences & Engineering The Graduate School and the Office of the Vice President for Research are pleased to announce the 2021-2022 RFP for the University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration. The URC funding program is UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding mechanism. Since 1971, the URC has worked in partnership with the Vice President for Research to advance high-potential research, scholarship and creative work, including that conducted by our graduate students. Following in the Teacher-Scholar model of graduate education, this URC program provides summer stipend support to outstanding graduate students plus funds to support related research costs working in collaboration with a UC faculty member. A total award of up to $7,500 is available to each applicant. Stipend support of up to $6,500 will be provided to the graduate student plus up to $1,000 for research costs payable to the department. Funding is available to support up to 6-7 awards in the Physical Sciences & Engineering KEY DATES RFP Released/Web Portal Open: 10/28/2021 Proposal Due by 5pm EST: 12/02/21 Awardees Announced (anticipated): 02/21/22 Summer Semester Start Date: 05/09/22 Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Physical Sciences & Engineering Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) FAQs Due Date: 12/02/2021 Amount: N/A University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Arts & Humanities The Graduate School and the Office of the Vice President for Research are pleased to announce the 2021-2022 RFP for the University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration. The URC funding program is UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding mechanism. Since 1971, the URC has worked in partnership with the Vice President for Research to advance high-potential research, scholarship and creative work, including that conducted by our graduate students. Following in the Teacher-Scholar model of graduate education, this URC program provides summer stipend support to outstanding graduate students plus funds to support related research costs working in collaboration with a UC faculty member. A total award of up to $7,500 is available to each applicant. Stipend support of up to $6,500 will be provided to the graduate student plus up to $1,000 for research costs payable to the department. Funding is available to support up to 6-7 awards in the Arts & Humanities. KEY DATES RFP Released/Web Portal Open: 10/28/2021 Proposal Due by 5pm EST: 12/02/21 Awardees Announced (anticipated): 02/21/22 Summer Semester Start Date: 05/09/22 Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Arts & Humanities Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) FAQs Due Date: 12/02/2021 Amount: N/A University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Life Sciences The Graduate School and the Office of the Vice President for Research are pleased to announce the 2021-2022 RFP for the University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration. The URC funding program is UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding mechanism. Since 1971, the URC has worked in partnership with the Vice President for Research to advance high-potential research, scholarship and creative work, including that conducted by our graduate students. Following in the Teacher-Scholar model of graduate education, this URC program provides summer stipend support to outstanding graduate students plus funds to support related research costs working in collaboration with a UC faculty member. A total award of up to $7,500 is available to each applicant. Stipend support of up to $6,500 will be provided to the graduate student plus up to $1,000 for research costs payable to the department. Funding is available to support up to 6-7 awards in the Life Sciences. KEY DATES RFP Released/Web Portal Open: 10/28/2021 Proposal Due by 5pm EST: 12/02/21 Awardees Announced (anticipated): 02/21/22 Summer Semester Start Date: 05/09/22 Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Life Sciences Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) FAQs Due Date: 12/02/2021 Amount: N/A University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Behavioral & Social Sciences The Graduate School and the Office of the Vice President for Research are pleased to announce the 2021-2022 RFP for the University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration. The URC funding program is UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding mechanism. Since 1971, the URC has worked in partnership with the Vice President for Research to advance high-potential research, scholarship and creative work, including that conducted by our graduate students. Following in the Teacher-Scholar model of graduate education, this URC program provides summer stipend support to outstanding graduate students plus funds to support related research costs working in collaboration with a UC faculty member. A total award of up to $7,500 is available to each applicant. Stipend support of up to $6,500 will be provided to the graduate student plus up to $1,000 for research costs payable to the department. Funding is available to support up to 6-7 awards in the Behavioral & Social Sciences. KEY DATES RFP Released/Web Portal Open: 10/28/2021 Proposal Due by 5pm EST: 12/02/21 Awardees Announced (anticipated): 02/21/22 Summer Semester Start Date: 05/09/22 Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University Research Council (URC) Graduate Student Stipend and Research Cost Program for Faculty—Student Collaboration - Behavioral & Social Sciences Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) FAQs Due Date: 11/30/2021 Amount: N/A University Research Council (URC) Faculty Scholars Award The Office of Research is pleased to share the 2021-2022 FOA for the URC Faculty Scholars Research Awards Program. Building upon the rich legacy of the University Research Council (URC), UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding program, the URC Faculty Scholars Research Awards are meant to recognize promising UC early career faculty who are proposing transformative ideas that will shape our future. This program is for individual faculty and may be discipline-focused or interdisciplinary in nature. This program will follow a two-stage application/evaluation process. The first stage involves submission of a Letter of Intent (LOI). Up to five finalists in each area will then be invited to submit a full proposal and agree to a 15-minute presentation/Q&A to discuss their proposed activities. Two URC Faculty Scholars Research Awardees will be designated annually in the areas of: • Arts & Humanities • Behavioral & Social Sciences • Life Sciences • Physical Science & Engineering Awards: All awards will be for $25,000 and for a period of 24 months. Budgets will only be required from awardees and will be created in collaboration with the Office of Research. KEY DATES FOA Released: October 28, 2021 LOI Due: November 30, 2021 by 5:00 pm EST Finalists Notified: December 20, 2021 (anticipated) Final Proposal Deadline: January 17, 2022 by 5:00 pm EST (for finalists only) Finalist Presentations: Week of 01/21/22 (anticipated) Awardees Announced: Week of March 11, 2022 (anticipated) Award Project Period: May 2022 – April 2024 : All awards will be for $25,000 and for a period of 24 months. Budgets will only be required from awardees and will be created in collaboration with the Office of Research. Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University Research Council (URC) Faculty Scholars Award Related Documents: Request for Proposals (RFP) Due Date: 10/14/2021 Amount: N/A SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery - Undergraduate Students The process of discovery contributes to our nation’s prowess in space exploration. In the Age of Discovery (circa 15th – 18th century), the leading nations of the day set out to explore what was unknown to them. The exploration of space will lead to greater understanding of the Earth and its place in the vastness of space. Humans living in space or on other celestial bodies will encounter new challenges in building societies. This includes not only sustainable physical structures but other critical aspects such as the formulation of exploration policies and new forms of civil society and governance in space. A prime directive of the Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration (SRIDE) at the University of Cincinnati (UC) is to foster growth in career paths that are aligned with our regional and national interests to discover and explore our universe with an emphasis on space travel and habitation. The Institute has established an Undergraduate Fellowship program – the SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery – to support students who show potential in advancing new ideas related to space discovery and exploration. The SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery is for undergraduates with 1-2 years remaining in their academic degree program. Undergraduates of all majors are eligible and encouraged to apply for this Fellowship. Key Dates 08/30/21 RFA Released 09/23/21 Application Portal Open 10/14/21 Application Due by 5 pm Eastern 10/28/21 Awardees Announced (anticipated) Overall funding is available to support up to six $3,000 fellowships each academic semester (starting this year with the Spring Semester 2022). Show More Show Less Closed opportunity SRIDE Fellowship for Discovery - Undergraduate Students Related Documents: Request for Applications (RFA) Supplemental Document(s) Due Date: 09/30/2021 Amount: N/A SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration - Graduate Students The process of discovery contributes to our nation’s prowess in space exploration. In the Age of Discovery (circa 15th – 18th century), the leading nations of the day set out to explore what was unknown to them. The exploration of space will lead to greater understanding of the Earth and its place in the vastness of space. Humans living in space or on other celestial bodies will encounter new challenges in building societies. This includes not only sustainable physical structures but other critical aspects such as the formulation of exploration policies and new forms of civil society and governance in space. A prime directive of the Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration (SRIDE) at the University of Cincinnati (UC) is to foster growth in career paths that are aligned with our regional and national interests to discover and explore our universe with an emphasis on space travel and habitation. The Institute has established a Graduate Fellowship program – the SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration – to support students who show potential in advancing new ideas related to space discovery and exploration. The SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration is for graduate students pursuing their Masters or Ph.D. degrees. There are no limitations to the discipline or background of graduate students – applications from all areas are strongly encouraged. Key Dates 08/30/21 RFA Released 09/08/21 Application Portal Open 09/30/21 Application Due by 5 pm Eastern 10/12/21 Awardees Announced (anticipated) 10/31/21 Earliest Stipend Start Date (anticipated) Overall funding is available to support up to five $24,000 12-month graduate stipends. Note – these awards do not include tuition waivers. Show More Show Less Closed opportunity SRIDE Fellowship for Exploration - Graduate Students Related Documents: Request for Applications (RFA) Supplemental Document(s) Due Date: 06/01/2021 Amount: $25,000 University of Cincinnati Student Government Research Fellowship Program The aim of the Undergraduate Research (UGR) Fellowship Program is to motivate and empower undergraduate students to pursue their research. Undergraduate students may request up to $700 in Fellowship funding to help off-set the cost of supplies, conference presentations, publication, and travel to field sites. Fellowships may not be used for wages, stipends, or professional memberships (unless membership is required to present at a conference). An annual budget of $25,000 would support between 35-100 students (assuming requests ranging from $250-$700 per student). Program applications are accepted on a rolling basis, please submit applications as they are completed! Any questions regarding this program should be directed to Dr. Megan Lamkin at lamkinmk@ucmail.uc.edu. Show More Show Less Closed opportunity University of Cincinnati Student Government Research Fellowship Program Related Documents: Submission Instructions Want to stay up to date with the latest research news? Subscribe to the Office of Research Newsletter Subscribe Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021