Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Research Compliance and Training Anti-Boycott Anti-Boycott International Boycotts not Supported by the United States Government U.S. federal regulations prohibit the University or its personnel from agreeing to participate in any international boycott not supported by the U.S. government, such as the Arab League boycott of Israel. Violation of these regulations could result in fines being imposed by the U.S. government. These regulations are broad and complex, regulating for example: (a) agreeing not to do business with a distributor with Jewish employees; (b) agreeing to stamp an invoice with the statement “We certify that goods are not of Israeli origin;” and (c) approving a letter of credit with the notation that “the goods cannot be shipped on a vessel that calls at Israeli ports.” Under certain circumstances even the receipt of a request to cooperate in a boycott must be reported to the U.S. government. Boycott-related requests involving any of these activities may be oral or written, and may appear as provisions in a proposed bid invitation, contract, purchase order, letter of credit, research or other agreement that calls for boycott-related information or action. If Columbia personnel receive a boycott related request, immediately contact Columbia University's Office of General Counsel (OGC) before responding further to the request. OGC will advise you on how to proceed, and assist in filing any required reports with the Commerce Department. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) maintains a separate set of boycott rules and regulations that require annual reporting of operations in or related to boycotting countries, as well as receipt of, and action in response to, boycott requests. These laws deny some foreign tax benefits to persons who cooperate with certain boycott requests. It also requires annual reporting by Columbia (not the individual Columbia employee) of business activities in boycotting countries. The Treasury Department publishes a list of these countries in the Federal Register each quarter. The current list includes: Iraq Kuwait Lebanon Libya Qatar Saudi Arabia Syria United Arab Emirates Yemen If Columbia personnel are engaging in any operations in or related to boycotting countries, report such operations to the Tax Director of the Controller’s Office. The IRS defines “operations” broadly to include purchasing, leasing, financing, extracting, constructing, transporting, contract negotiating, site selecting, and other activities. Operations must be reported even if no boycott requests are received. For additional information about the Anti-Boycott regulations, visit the Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security Office of Anti-Boycott Compliance (OAC). Examples of prohibited boycott requests can be found on the OAC at: https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/enforcement/oac/7-enforcement/578-examples-of-boycott-requests. Home Office of Research Compliance and Training Contact Michelle Avallone, JD Director of Export Controls Office of Research Compliance and Training 212-851-9822 [email protected] Janique Cheesman, MS Assistant Director for Research Compliance Office of Research Compliance and Training 212-853-1686 [email protected] Related Links Anti-Corruption Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (Drones) Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close