Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Leadership The Office of Research is dedicated to supporting UC students, staff and faculty throughout their lifecycle of scholarly research and creative activities. Vision The University of Cincinnati research enterprise integrates the arts, sciences and technology to provide unique opportunities for discovery, development and education that cross the traditional academic boundaries. UC’s agile research enterprise can address current challenges and discern future possibilities for exploration that will benefit the greater Cincinnati community and the world beyond. Mission The Office of Research provides the University of Cincinnati research community with excellent services that enhance scholarship and research. Core Values Solution-Oriented Customer-Focused Committed to Quality Collaborative & Transparent Office of Research Leadership Patrick Limbach Vice President for Research Close Patrick Limbach Vice President for Research Email: Pat.Limbach@uc.edu Phone: 513-558-0026 Oversees the research offices to maintain policies and compliance. Jane Strasser Sr. Assoc. VP for Research Close Jane Strasser Sr. Assoc. VP for Research Email: Jane.Strasser@uc.edu Phone: 513-558-5034 Responsible for human subjects research, vertebrate animal research, biosafety, radiation safety, export controls, the biologic select agent and toxin program, and receiving and evaluating any allegations of research misconduct. Patrick Clark Assoc. VP for Operations and Business Intelligence Close Patrick Clark Assoc. VP for Operations and Business Intelligence Email: Patrick.Clark@uc.edu Phone: 513-556-2628 Responsible for sponsored administration functions and government cost compliance. Jennifer Krivickas Assoc. VP Programs & Initiatives Close Jennifer Krivickas Assoc. VP Programs & Initiatives Email: Jennifer.Krivickas@uc.edu Phone: 513-556-1470 Jennifer’s portfolio includes executive leadership of Next Lives Here and Research2030 strategic initiatives including Digital Futures and Urban Futures Pathway initiatives: The Community Change Collaborative (C3), UC on Boards, and Sustainability@UC. Jennifer is responsible for select internal funding programs and the DEI in Research program. Holly Bante Assoc. VP Research Security and Ethics Close Holly Bante Assoc. VP Research Security and Ethics Email: Holly.Bante@uc.edu Phone: 513-556-4346 Responsible for conflict of interest. Teri Reed Assist. VP for Faculty Research Development Close Teri Reed Assist. VP for Faculty Research Development Email: Teri.Reed@uc.edu Phone: 513-556-3191 Organizes and leads research enterprise interactions with local, state and federal government and regional industry partners. Serves as primary liaison between the Office of Research and the University of Cincinnati Research Institute (UCRI). Ken Greis Exec. Dir. Research Infrastructure and Facilities Close Ken Greis Exec. Dir. Research Infrastructure and Facilities Email: Ken.Greis@uc.edu Phone: 513-558-7102 Responsible for coordinating processes and advising the VP for Research on the organization and investments in research equipment, facilities, and infrastructure to advance the research enterprise. Scott Petersen Exec. Dir. Digital Futures - Cyber Development Close Scott Petersen Exec. Dir. Digital Futures - Cyber Development Email: Scott.Petersen@uc.edu Phone: 513-556-1475 Responsible for guiding and supporting cyber-related research of the Digital Futures initiative and developing partnerships for national security-related research. Executive Research Advisory Board The Executive Research Advisory Board is responsible for reviewing the annual activities of the Research2030 strategic plan, assess the impacts of this plan, and provide input to future initiatives and directions as part of Research2030. This board meets every six months with the annual assessment tied to the fiscal calendar of the university. Robin Engle College of Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services Vadim Guilants College of Engineering and Applied Sciences Kate Harmon Lindner College of Business Alex Lentsch College of Medicine Chris Lewis Interim Dean of Graduate School Leland Person College of Arts and Sciences Karen Ryan Government Relations Alison Weiss Chair of the Fellows of the Graduate School Jennifer Wright-Berryman Faculty Senate Research & Scholarship Committee Arnie Miller Emeriti Faculty Office of Research Liaison Jane Strasser Research Advisory Board The Research Advisory Board (RAB) is responsible for providing input and development of university strategies affecting research, communicating, and advocating for research across the university, and assisting the Office of Research with events and activities that recognize and benefit the research enterprise. Consistent with Research2030, RAB will be modified starting in AY21/22 to be composed of three standing committees: Talent, Infrastructure, and Partnerships. These committees will have specific charges and be provided resources to accomplish their tasks. RAB members will serve on one of the three committees. Committees are expected to meet at least quarterly. The entire Research Advisory Board will meet once per semester for updates and once annually with the Executive Research Advisory Board and other Office of Research leadership for review and assessment. Talent Committee - led by Terri Reed AY21/22 Charge: (1) Create researcher’s learning community; (2) Work with Talent Acquisition unit in HR to establish materials/information that can be used to support recruitment of research staff, faculty, and graduate students. Gordon Gillespie Amy Lind Tamara Lorenz James Mack Claudia Rebola Jennifer Wright-Berryman Melinda Butsch-Kovacic Infrastructure Committee – led by Ken Greis AY21/22 Charge: (1) Review and recommend process to support institutional infrastructure investments for lab/space renovations and critical equipment support/replacement (including addressing impacts of power failures to research equipment); (2) Create 5-year core facility investment/growth plan to support R2030. Adam Aurisano Tiffany Grant Christy Holland Gautam Pillay Ashley Paz y Puente Bingfang Yan Partnerships Committee – led by Jennifer Krivickas AY21/22 Charge: (1) Collect information on existing outreach initiatives/centers and create pathways for them to communicate with each other; (2) Identify existing gaps in the UC outreach portfolio and make recommendations/start efforts to close these gaps (i.e. new staffing, forming new outreach centers, etc.); (3) Propose a hub-based approach for UC researchers facilitating coordinated outreach to the community Felix Chang Sarah Jackson Jonathan Kregor Chris Lewis Suzanne Masterson Sonya Turner Michael Griffith Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021