Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Sponsored Projects Administration Sponsored Projects Forms Sponsored Projects Forms Internal Forms Expand all Collapse all 1 IPASS Form NEW Institutional Approval/Prior Approval (IPASS) form (rev 10/2021), to be used effective November 1, 2021. Subaward requests should use the new Request for Outbound Subaward (ROS) form. See ROS Form and ROS Form User Guide See training video on ROS form (recorded 10/20/2021) This will generate Attachment 3A, to be included in the subaward agreement. Also include: Attachment 3B (page 1) - Subrecipient Contacts Attachment 3B - Subrecipient Contacts (Page 2) - Place of Performance & Highest Compensated Officers Department Budget Modification Form - to be used with the IPASS for rebudgeting requests 2 Proposal Face Pages Columbia University Face Page - Morningside Columbia University Face Page - CUMC 3 Award Set-Up Forms Department Award Setup Form (blank form) Example of completed Department Setup Form 4 Consultant Conflict of Interest (COI) Disclosure Forms CU Consultant COI Form (PDF version) CU Consultant COI Form (Word version) 5 Subaward Forms - all required subrecipient materials and forms, including FCOI Policy confirmation For a downloadable one-page PDF version of all forms required, click here (updated 2/7/2022). The SPA Project Officer requires the following materials and forms, at a minimum, during proposal review if subrecipients are included in the proposal: Subrecipient/Contractor Classification Form A statement of work (SOW) Detailed budget Budget justification Biosketch for each key personnel listed by the subrecipient Subaward Face Page (rev. Feb 2022) signed by the subrecipient’s institutional official, or the individual who can legally bind the institution. A Pre-award Assessment of the Proposed Subawards Form if the aggregate amount of all proposed subrecipients in the grant or contract proposal exceeds 50% of the total prime award. If subrecipient is foreign, SPA will need a completed International Research Questionnaire (IRQ). Facilities & Administrative (F&A) rates for subrecipients: If subrecipient is not in the FDP Expanded Clearinghouse, then the SPA Project Officer will also need: If sponsor is federal - a copy of the most recent U.S. federally Negotiated Indirect Cost Rate Agreement (NICRA). Prior to proposal submission to SPA, inform the SPA Project Officer if a proposed subrecipient does not have a NICRA to discuss the options. NOTE NIH caps F&A to 8% for foreign subrecipients. NOTE NSF - if foreign subrecipient does not have a NICRA, the NSF grantee will fund the foreign subrecipient using the de minimis indirect cost rate recovery of 10% of modified total direct costs Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Policy confirmation: Additional forms may be necessary if the prime sponsor is a PHS agency, or the sponsor follows the PHS Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Regulation, (42 CFR 50, Subpart F, "Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for which PHS Funding is Sought"). A certification from the proposed subrecipient that it has an FCOI policy that complies with the PHS FCOI Regulation will be needed. This can be checked several ways: The FDP Expanded Clearinghouse; or The FDP FCOI Clearinghouse. If the entity does not have a certification in the above clearinghouses, the SPA Project Officer will need: Columbia University's Subrecipient FCOI Policy Confirmation Form. If proposed subrecipient entity indicates they do not have a FCOI Policy on this form, additional follow-up will be necessary after proposal submission, using the Follow-Up Subrecipient FCOI Policy Form. In very unusual circumstances, Principal Investigators can request that subrecipients be covered under Columbia's COI policy. This form is to be used to request that such an exception be granted for a particular subrecipient on a specific project: Subrecipient Conflict of Interest Exception Request Form Forms for when Columbia is the Subrecipient (inbound subaward): INBOUND Subaward Face Page (rev 2/7/2022) - an option to use when another institution acts as the pass-through entity (PTE), and Columbia University will be a subrecipient. This form can be used if requested. Attachment 3B - usually requested by the PTE when they are ready to issue a subaward: Morningside Attachment 3B - rev 2/5/2022 CUIMC and MSPH Attachment 3B - rev 2/5/2022 Forms for when Columbia University receives a Notice of Award (NoA) for a proposal that included subawards: Subaward requests should use the new Request for Outbound Subaward (ROS) form. See ROS Form and ROS Form User Guide See training video on ROS form (recorded 10/20/2021) This will generate Attachment 3A, to be included in the subaward agreement. Also include: Attachment 3B (page 1) - Subrecipient Contacts Attachment 3B - Subrecipient Contacts (Page 2) - Place of Performance & Highest Compensated Officers 6 Compliance Forms - IRB, IACUC, EH&S Most forms that require institutional approval (IRB, IACUC, Conflict of Interest, etc.) can be found in Rascal. Here are direct links to the Offices involved for further guidance: Human Research Protection Office / IRBs (use Rascal) IACUC (use Rascal) Institute of Comparative Medicine (ICM) - to order, acquire, or move animals. Sign in, and go to "Forms." Comparative Medicine's Current Per Diem Rates Environmental Health & Safety (use Rascal) use Rascal to obtain approval for recombinant DNA, infectious agents, human materials or other potentially infectious materials, laser, hazardous chemicals or toxins, and radioisotopes. Safety courses are also available in Rascal 7 Additional Compensation Request Form Additional Compensation - Sponsored Projects Request Form - this form must be completed, signed, and submitted to [email protected] 8 Report Requests You can request the Business Systems division of SPA for grants data. Download and submit the following request to [email protected]: Sponsored Projects Information Request Form (rev. 4/13/2011) Report Requests for Training Grants SPA can assist you with producing one of the tables required for NRSA Training Grant applications: "Institutional Training Grant Support Available to Participating Faculty Members, Department(s), or Program(s)" (known as "Table 3"). This table is required for New and Competing NIH training grant applications. In order to receive this assistance, please complete the following excel form and return it to SPA Business Systems ([email protected]) every time you submit a new or competing continuation training grant application. Mentors and Administrative Information for Training Grants 9 Invention Agreement Letter As part of processing University appointments, a signed Invention Agreement Letter is required for all full time Officers of Instruction, salaried Officers of Research, Postdoctoral Clinical and Research Fellows, Student Officers of Research and Graduate Students who receive stipends from pre-doctoral training grants or from individual pre-doctoral fellowships. Faculty Handbook IP Policy The following materials can be located on the Columbia Tech Ventures website at https://techventures.columbia.edu/forms/faculty-handbook-ip-policy Information regarding the Invention Agreement Letter Invention Agreement Letter Sample Cover Letter Home Sponsored Projects Administration University Compliance Hotline Phone: 866-627-3768 Find Your SPA Project Officer or Financial Analyst SPA Department Assignments Contact Contact SPA-eBiz for assistance obtaining access to online proposal development/submission systems. Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday - Friday. (212) 851-4368 [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close