Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Innovation › Invention Submission Invention Submission Invention Disclosure Process As the first step towards commercialization, OTCBD will review your invention to determine whether to pursue intellectual property (IP) protection (e.g. patent and copyright). The invention disclosure process starts by submitting an invention disclosure using the Electronic Research Administration (eRA) Portal. Inventions should be submitted as early and completely as possible (although it may be amended later) using the following steps: Step 1: Submit Your Invention Log into the eRA Portal: eRA Portal Under Technology Transfer, select Invention Disclosures from the drop-down menu Select New Invention Report to start your invention disclosure View the disclosure submission training guide for further information. Important Note: Please contact our office before submitting any invention-related manuscripts for publication or presentation. Public disclosures that occur prior to filing for IP protection can jeopardize the university’s ability to pursue patent protection. Step 2: Invention Disclosure Evaluation Your invention disclosure will be assigned to a technology commercialization team member to assess the invention’s IP and commercial potential. Within 3-4 weeks after submission a team member will follow up to discuss their analysis with you. Outside consultants, experts, and patent counsel are often retained to assist with this evaluation. Step 3: Intellectual Property Protection If pursuing IP protection is appropriate, Temple’s patent counsel drafts, files and manages Temple’s patents and copyrights covering the invention. After Temple decides to pursue an invention, the Technology Commercialization and Business Development group begins the commercialization process by determining the appropriate path to market. TCBD seeks to license Temple's intellectual property rights to an established or startup company to enable advancement of the technology in exchange for royalties, licensing fees and other forms of compensation. In This Section Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple