Skip to Main Content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Dartmouth Library Research Guides Dartmouth Library Guides Library Search Basics Search this Guide Search Library Search: Basics Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Basics Sign in My Account Choosing a search Voice Search Assistant Library Search Search Tips and Tricks Get ItToggle Dropdown Borrow Direct DartDoc Alerts, Save & Cite Sign in To access your account and additional features of the system, click "Sign in" in the upper right corner of the screen. Dartmouth/DHMC faculty, students & staff should click the "Dartmouth students & staff" link and login with your Dartmouth credentials. Alumni, DHMC & Guests should use the "Alumni, DHMC & Guests" link and login with your barcode number and password. (If your password does not work, select “reset your password” and follow the instructions below.) Alumni, DHMC & Guests “Reset your password”. After selecting “reset your password” enter the barcode as it appears on your Library card (green paper cards for alumni and guests, Dartmouth Library Barcode on the back of DHMC Id’s). NOTE: Do not enter your email address in the second box. Our system will instead use the email that is associated with your account. You will receive a link in the email associated with your account. By selecting that link you will be led to a page to create a password for your Library account. My Account After logging in you can: click your name in the upper right corner to access your account, favorites and search history. find a summary of loans, requests, fines/fees and messages. quickly renew all checked-out items or renew individual items via the loans tab. when looking at an item detail page, you will be able to request the item via a Request link in the Get It section of the page. save items to your favorites list by clicking the push pin icon next to an item in a search list or in the upper right corner of the item detail page. save your search results by clicking the "Save query" push pin link at the top of the results list. Create a Self-Check Pin Log into your Library account. On the “My Account” page, select the “Personal Details” Tab. To the right, under the default languages, there is a link to “Update Self-Check Pin” Select the link and enter your desired Self-Check pin number. Choosing a search To search items the Dartmouth Library owns or has access to, use the search at dartgo.org/search. The dropdown menu to the right of the main search bar allows you to narrow your search. If you select 'Available Online,' you will eliminate all physical items from your search. To limit to physical items please use the 'Held in Library' facet in the left menu of the results screen. If you select 'Library Catalog' from the dropdown menu, you will be searching all items in the Dartmouth Library, including journal and database titles. While we may have online access to many of the books, journals, and databases that appear in this search, selecting this option will not search the text within journals or databases, so it is not particularly useful for finding journal articles, abstracts, or book chapters. You will want to use the default 'search' from the dropdown menu to access articles and book chapters. You may limit your search to items placed on reserve by a faculty member by selecting 'Course Reserves' from the dropdown menu. To find items specific to a course, search for the course title. Voice Search Assistant For browsers that support it, the search tool includes a Voice Search Assistant. To use it, simply click on the microphone icon, near the search button (magnifying glass icon). This tool uses the Google Web Speech API. Clicking it will trigger a pop-up message asking if you will allow it to access your device's microphone. If you choose to allow it, the browser then records audio, listening for a long enough break in the audio and then converting the voice command you have given to a textual search and submitting it. The library and the search tool vendor do not have access to these recordings, but they have to be transmitted to Google in order for the tool to work. To opt out of the tool after allowing it, simply close your browser - the next time you return to the page, you will be asked again if you want to allow the service to work. Library Search Next: Search Tips and Tricks >> Last Updated: Mar 9, 2022 9:48 AM URL: https://researchguides.dartmouth.edu/librarysearch Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy