Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Research Support Offices The Office of Research is dedicated to supporting UC students, staff and faculty throughout their lifecycle of scholarly research and creative activities. Learn More Animal Care and Use Program Provides administrative support to the Insitutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), regulatory training and support for researchers and educators, and husbandry and veterinary care for all vertebrate animals. > Learn More about Animal Care and Use Program Learn More Biosafety Office Provides guidance on safety and regulations related to research involving biohazardous or potentially biohazardous materials, and supports the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC). > Learn More about Biosafety Office Learn More Export Controls Office Provides training and guidance to facilitate compliance with export control regulations including travel and the management of information, equipment, and other technology both on campus and externally. > Learn More about Export Controls Office Learn More Government Cost Compliance Ensures university-wide compliance with applicable federal cost principles and established university policies. > Learn More about Government Cost Compliance Learn More Human Research Protection Program Provides training and support for research involving human subjects including Institutional Review Board (IRB) protocols and FDA submissions and supports the IRB. > Learn More about Human Research Protection Program Learn More Leather Lab Provides focused and customized leather testing and technology training at the highest possible level of scientific excellence and professional integrity. > Learn More about Leather Lab Learn More Office of Research - Security & Ethics Develops training, assists with developing individual conflict management plans, and ensures compliance with federal and state laws and regulations. > Learn More about Office of Research - Security & Ethics Learn More Office of the Vice President for Research Oversees offices that are collectively held under the divisions of Research Support and Research Development. > Learn More about Office of the Vice President for Research Learn More Programs and Initiatives The Strategic Programs and Signature Initiatives unit provides the critical infrastructure needed so that UC researchers and creatives can take their ideas to the next level; collaborate freely across disciplines; connect with clinical, government, community, and corporate partners; and be more competitive for high value awards and fellowships. > Learn More about Programs and Initiatives Learn More Radiation Safety Provides regulatory and technical training and support, supports the Radiation Safety Committee (RSC), and manages all radioactive materials and radiation generating equipment. > Learn More about Radiation Safety Learn More Sponsored Research Services Provides support and resources encompassing the entire grant process from the early proposal stages to administering the funded projects. > Learn More about Sponsored Research Services Learn More UC Office of Research Integrity Exists to support the generation and dissemination of knowledge by facilitating safe and compliant research and scholarship. > Learn More about UC Office of Research Integrity Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021