Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides A-Z Databases A-Z Databases Find the best library databases for your research. Toggle search filters navigation Database Subject Filter All Subjects *Extended or Temporarily Free Access (due to COVID-19) Accounting African American Studies African Studies American Literature Anthropology Arabic & Middle East Studies Architecture Art Art History Asian Studies Aviation Science Biochemistry Biography Biology Book Arts British Literature Business Chemistry & Biochemistry Child & Family Studies Children & Young Adult Literature Chinese Church-State Studies Citing Classics Communication Communication Science & Disorders Computer Science Curriculum & Instruction Dance Digital Scholarship Economics Education Educational Administration Educational Psychology Engineering Entrepreneurship Environmental Science Events & Exhibits Experiential Learning Commons Fashion Design Fashion Merchandising Film & Digital Media Finance For Faculty Forensic Science French General Geophysics Geosciences German Gerontology Government Information Grants Health, Human Performance & Recreation History Honors College How Do I...? Human Sciences and Design Information Systems Insurance Interior Design International Studies Italian Jewish Studies Journalism, PR & New Media Latin American Studies Law Librarians Library & Information Science Library & Research Information Literature Management Marketing Mathematics Medical Humanities Medicine Medieval & Renaissance Studies Modern Languages & Cultures Multidisciplinary Museum Studies Music Music - General Music - Instrumental Music - Vocal Neuroscience Newspapers Nursing Nutrition Occupational Therapy Philosophy Photography Physical Therapy Physics Political Science Portuguese Psychology Public Health Publication Quick Facts Real Estate Reference Religion & Theology Reviews & Guides Russian Scholarly Communication Social Work Sociology Spanish Special Collections Statistical Science Studio Arts Technology Texas Theatre Arts Tutorials Women's & Gender Studies Writing Writing & Rhetoric Database Types Filter All Database TypesAudio MusicalAudio Non-MusicalBook ReviewsCatalogs & BibliographiesConference Papers & ProceedingsDatabasesDatasetsDictionaries & EncyclopediasDirectoriesDissertations & ThesesElectronic Book CollectionsElectronic Journal CollectionsElectronic Texts & DocumentsImage CollectionsIndexes & AbstractsInstructional Guides & TutorialsMapsMusical Score CollectionsNews SourcesStatisticsVideoWeb Resources Database Vendors Filter All Vendors / ProvidersAdam Matthew DigitalAlexander Street PressBritish Library.;Gale Group.EBSCOGaleGale Group.;Gale (Firm)JstorLexisNexisNaxosProQuestSageWinmox DATABASES Go AllABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ# Clear Filters/Browse All Databases Loading... Popular Databases Loading... The most frequently-used databases Academic search complete This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides a great starting place for research, as it offers indexing and abstracts for more than 12 500 journals in all academic subjects, including more than 8 500 full-text and 7 300 peer-reviewed journals. Other types of publications included in this resource are books and book chapters, newspapers, magazines, conference proceedings, reports, etc. Searchable by keyword, title, author, subject, journal name, and a lot more. Results can be limited by date, language, publication type, full-text status or whether a journal is scholarly/peer-reviewed. EBSCOhost. APA PsycINFO This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides citations and summaries of scholarly journal articles, book chapters, books, and dissertations, all in psychology and related disciplines, dating as far back as the 1800s. 99 percent of the covered material is peer-reviewed. The database also includes information about the psychological aspects of related fields such as medicine, psychiatry, nursing, sociology, education, pharmacology, physiology, linguistics, anthropology, business, law, and others. Journal coverage, which spans 1887 to present, includes international material selected from nearly 2 000 periodicals in more than 25 languages. Can limit by publisher, publication year, publication status, publication type, document type, book type, peer reviewed, language, population group, age group, intended audience, methodology and classification codes. EBSCOhost. ATLA religion database with ATLASerials This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Indexes comprehensively scholarly and non-scholarly journals in religion and theology. This resource is a definite "must consult" for those undertaking bibliographic research in Christian religious studies. One of the oldest continuing indexes of religious journal literature, its retrospective journal coverage goes back as far as 1949 and in some cases to the 19th century. The breadth and depth of its coverage renders this index extremely versatile. Its content and search features make it relevant for research in a number of religion specific areas including Biblical Studies, Church history, Systematic Theology, Philosophical Theology, and Ministry studies, as well as denomination specific research. Full-text access is frequently available. Abstracting is spare, but does appear in the occasional record. EBSCOhost. Business source complete This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides access to full-text business journals and hundreds of scholarly, peer-reviewed journals covering all aspects of business, marketing, management, economics, finance, accounting, international business and more. Additional full-text, non-journal content includes financial data, books, monographs, major reference works, book digests, conference proceedings, case studies, investment research reports, industry reports, market research reports, country reports, company profiles, SWOT analyses, and more. May be searched individually or in combination with other EBSCO databases. EBSCOhost. Education research complete This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides a bibliographic index with many full-text articles for topics on all levels of education from early childhood to higher education, and all educational specialties, such as multilingual education, health education, and testing. Covers 1865 to the present day. Searchable by author, title, subject terms, abstract, geographic terms, people, publication name. Includes academic journals, magazines, newspapers, books, and conference papers. Scopus This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides citations and abstracts of, peer-reviewed titles from international publishers, Open Access journals, conference proceedings, trade publications, book series, patents, and quality web sources as far back as 1823. Includes 4 collections: life sciences, health sciences, physical sciences, and social sciences and humanities. Search documents, authors, or affiliation. Advanced search uses Boolean operators and codes. Limitable by facets. Provides related articles and citation information. Customizable personal accounts. Part of the SciVerse system. Web of science. Core collection This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides access to bibliographic information of journal articles through the Arts & Humanities Citation Index, Science Citation Index Expanded, and Social Sciences Citation Index from 1900 to present. Search by topic, author, publication, editor, language, etc. Provides citation information. Limitable by facets. Customizable personal accounts. WorldCat This link opens in a new window Popular This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Contains an online catalog to the book, media, archival, journal, map, music, and special collections holdings of libraries across the United States and internationally. Can limit by year, type of material, and other factors. OCLC FirstSearch. New / Trial Databases Loading... The following databases are newly acquired or being evaluated for a future subscription. American Broadsides and Ephemera This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Built in partnership with the American Antiquarian Society, this full-color digital edition offers fully searchable facsimiles of about 15,000 broadsides printed between 1820 and 1900 and about 15,000 pieces of ephemera printed between 1749 and 1900. Featuring documents such as colorful political notices, confessions, songs, menus, advertisements, and more produced locally across the country, these images capture the daily lives of earlier Americans. Newsbank/Readex American Children's Books This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database A comprehensive collection of more than 6,000 17th, 18th, and 19th century books printed in America (1654-1819) for children’s entertainment, instruction, education, and play. Provides author biographies as well as integrated text and data analysis tools. Newsbank/Readex American Pamphlets This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Produced from the New-York Historical Society’s collection of pamphlets, this resource provides more than 25,000 short works printed in every region of the United States between 1820 and 1922. These pamphlets span American life, from the Jacksonian Era through the dawn of the Jazz Age and contain coverage of contentious topics related to politics and government, religion and religious movements, art and entertainment, business and economics, health and medicine, education, immigrants and ethnic groups, American Indians, slavery and the Civil War, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, women, and science and technology. Newsbank/Readex American Sermons This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database A comprehensive collection of more than 8,000 17th, 18th, and early 19th century sermons (1652-1819) that provide insight into politics, society, religion, and family life. Provides author biographies as well as integrated text and data analysis tools. Newsbank/Readex Art Song Transpositions This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Contains songs that can be transposed into any key, printing out the song in its new key. Includes music for voice and piano notated in the tradition of classical art music (mainly art songs and arias from operas and oratorios); musical theatre solos (as long as we can clear copyright); music for vocal duet and piano; music for vocal trio and piano; and music for voice, piano, and one auxiliary instrument During the trial period, enjoy unlimited downloads, unlimited transpositions of existing repertoire, and 3 new repertoire requests per individual (max 12 pages). Please provide us with feedback on this resource. Trial expires on Thursday, December 15, 2022 Electronic Enlightenment This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Provides access to thousands of letters and documents representing edited correspondence of the early modern period, linking people across Europe, the Americas and Asia from the early 17th to the mid-19th century. Oxford. Native American Indians, 1645-1819 This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database A comprehensive collection of more than 1,600 17th, 18th, and early 19th century publications (1645-1819) providing insight into the relationships between indigenous inhabitants and European settlers. Includes every major book about indigenous people from this period, as well as author biographies and integrated text and data analysis tools. Newsbank/Readex Taylor & Francis COVID-19 This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database This microsite provides links and references to all relevant COVID-19 research articles, book chapters and information that can be freely accessed on Taylor & Francis Online and Taylor & Francis ebooks in support of the global efforts in diagnosis, treatment, prevention and further research into COVID-19. As signatories to NIH’s Access to Research initiative, along with the Wellcome Trust’s coordinated action on sharing research data and findings relevant to the outbreak, Taylor & Francis has been working with WHO to ensure this content is clearly signposted. We are also aligning the OSTP’s initiative to centralise resources on PubMed and are currently working with them to ensure rapid human and machine-readable access (where possible) to research articles and data through the NLM’s LitCovid portal. more... less... As signatories to NIH’s Access to Research initiative, along with the Wellcome Trust’s coordinated action on sharing research data and findings relevant to the outbreak, Taylor & Francis has been working with WHO to ensure this content is clearly signposted. We are also aligning the OSTP’s initiative to centralise resources on PubMed and are currently working with them to ensure rapid human and machine-readable access (where possible) to research articles and data through the NLM’s LitCovid portal. More research in this field has been collated by colleagues at F1000Research, through a dedicated Gateway which showcases research published in this area, including preprints, to ensure immediate access to the latest research developments https://f1000research.com/gateways/disease_outbreaks/coronavirus Loading... Loading... Login to LibApps Report a problem. University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu Osofast A-Z Databases OneSearch Profiles Library Account Login Hours Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Report It | Title IX | Mental Health Resources | Anonymous Reporting | Legal Disclosures