Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Research Compliance › Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) RCR Overview Responsible and ethical conduct of research is critical for excellence, as well as, public trust in academic research and education. Temple University has an approved Integrity Policy. The Integrity officer is Michele M. Masucci, Vice President for Research. If there is a possible violation, the charge should be brought to Michele M. Masucci's attention. Misconduct may include fabrication, plagiarism, falsification and failure to comply with the proper conduct of research. After the review of the charge made in good faith, the integrity officer will refer the situation to an inquiry committee to determine possible misconduct. If the committee considers there to be probable cause, then it is referred to an investigation committee. If they concur that there is misconduct, the case will then be referred to the President for possible sanction. All faculty must receive training in the integrity procedures. Temple's Policy on Misconduct in Research and Creative Work (download) DHHS Responsible conduct of Research policy (download) Responsible Conduct of Research Training (download) In This Section Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple