Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Join the SPA Listservs Join the SPA Listservs Sponsored Projects Administration (SPA) maintains several listservs to send announcements related to sponsored projects to Columbia faculty and research administrators. These announcements may include funding opportunities, policy changes, or training opportunities. See lists below to select the appropriate list for signing up. Contact Stephanie Scott for any questions concerning these listservs. Grants-Morningside-DA -> for research/grants/finance administrators on the Morningside campus. If you're a Morningside administrator interested in receiving NIH-related announcements, contact Stephanie Scott. Grants-CUMC-DA -> for research/grants/finance administrators on the CUIMC campus. Training Grant Administrators (TGA) -> for administrators who prepare and/or manage NIH institutional training grants (ex. T32s). NIH-Investigators -> faculty listserv, announcements related to NIH (i.e., policy changes, funding opportunities, form changes, training, etc.). NSF-Investigators -> faculty listserv, announcements related to NSF. SPA-Info -> used by SPA to send broad announcements to faculty on either campus. No need to join it! This listserv is tailored based on the appropriate audience for the announcement. Related Content SPA Directory Contact Stephanie Scott Director of Policy and Research Development Sponsored Projects Administration (212) 854-0606 [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close