Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Facts + Figures The Office of Research provides the University of Cincinnati research community with excellent services that enhance scholarship and research, including key investments in the UC research enterprise that will impact our local, national and global partners. FY 2021 Sponsored Awards $393,595,265 | 964 Awards The Office of Research receives funding from multiple sources, including federal, non-profits, industry, local government and the state of Ohio. We strive to support UC faculty, staff, student researchers and advance multi- and trans-disciplinary initiatives in existing and emerging communities of research excellence at UC. Activity Type Funding Source Full Report for fiscal year 2019 sponsored awards FY 2019 R+D Expenditures Expenditure data as reported in the NSF Higher Education Research & Development (HERD) survey for the most recent year completed. The Institution Funds category includes internal (non-sponsored) research expenditures. The NSF publishes full HERD survey data in November, so the link to Full Report, below, may be for the prior year. Sponsored Expenditures Full Report for fiscal year 2016 expenditure data Industry + Business Engagement The University of Cincinnati Research Institute was created to advance industrial sponsorship of research and development activities of the University of Cincinnati faculty, researchers, and staff. UCRI creates a comprehensive strategic approach for business engagement throughout the entire University. Learn More about the University of Cincinnati Research Institute (opens in a new window) Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021