Skip to main content Cornell Research Cornell.edu Research Services Search Cornell Connect With Us Follow Us On Twitter Follow Us On Facebook Subscribe RSS Feeds Enter a Search Term Clear Search Suggestions News & Features Life Sciences Medicine & Health Food & Agriculture Molecular & Cell Biology Genetics & Genome Science Brain & Behavioral Biology Physical & Mathematical Sciences Space, Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Chemical Sciences Physics Mathematical & Computer Sciences Technology Complex Systems & Engineering Nanoscience & Nanotechnology Energy Advanced Materials Biomedical & Biotechnology Information Science & Technology Information Science Communication & Social Networks Data Science High Performance Computing Social Sciences & Policy Social & Behavioral Sciences Public Policy Entrepreneurship & Management Law & Government Economics Arts & Humanities Literature, Classics & Language Visual & Performing Arts History & Culture Architecture & Design Ethics, Religion & Philosophy Multidisciplinary Environment & Sustainability Accelerator & X-Ray Science Global Matters Converging Humanities & Social Sciences Recently Funded Research Innovation in Action Life in the Lab Video Features More Graduate & Undergraduate Research Find a Center, Institute, Lab or Program Featured Researchers The Research Division 2021 Research Stats & Faculty Distinctions Search Research Services Search Cornell Connect With Us Follow Us On Twitter Follow Us On Facebook Subscribe RSS Feeds Innovation in Action Cornell Researchers Cornell Alumni WalcerScharfCollage3.jpg Beatrice Jin; Dave Burbank Fueling Cornell Startups for Success Cornell has two incubators for startups, covering the broad spectrum of Cornell technologies. Both are led by seasoned Cornell Alumni Entrepreneurs. Cornell-Innovation-Final.jpg Elizabeth Nelson; Dave Burbank Cornell Innovation Has Real-World Impact Cornell is one of the top 10 academic innovators in the world according to Reuters News Agency. JWP_CornellReseach_Selects-6013_edit2.jpg Jesse Winter Cornell’s Culture of Innovation “We have strengths in many, many different areas, and bringing them together ... is actually what distinguishes us from other universities.” Kevin_O’Brien_031_edit.jpg Dave Burbank Robotic Hand with a High-Tech Transmission “I was treating these rubbery materials like balloons and inflating them with air…I could make rubber fingers and legs that could bend and flex.” Abe_Stroock_060_edit.jpg Dave Burbank Helping to Relieve Crop Survival Stress Engineers and plant biologists are seeding a groundbreaking era in digital agriculture, with new technologies such as a microtensiometer and AquaDust. Results That Matter The Cornell Research community—faculty, students, alumni, funders, and partners—produces innovative results in basic and applied research and scholarship. The results of Cornell Research address societal concerns, enrich lives, and advance the economy. Cornell University is deeply committed to the transfer of knowledge and discoveries, the commercialization of new technology, sustainable economic development, and job creation, which work together to improve the quality of life for people and communities spanning the globe—results that matter. Cornell ResearchersCornell Alumni Innovation & Entrepreneurial Resources The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) Small Business Development Directory Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneurship at Cornell Weill Cornell Medicine BioVenture eLab Cornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) eLab Smith Family Business Initiative at Cornell Red Bear Angels Cornell Economic Impact and Entrepreneurship Website Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. CTL manages technology for the Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, New York. CTL’s mission is to bring the university’s scientific discoveries, technological innovations, and medical advances to the marketplace for societal benefit and to foster economic development within New York State and across the nation. Learn More Small Business Development Directory illustrates how Cornell technology is transferred from the lab bench to the real world through the creation of small businesses and the transfer of knowledge to industry, particularly in New York State. This online directory features small businesses that evolved from Cornell technologies, were founded by Cornell faculty, staff, students, and alumni with the benefit of Cornell resources, and that benefit from Cornell resources because of proximity to the university. It also covers all companies that licensed Cornell technology. Learn More Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences nurtures the development of Cornell early stage life science startups. The center facilitates R&D to proof of principle, helping to build management teams, validate the business plans, and accelerate venture or industrial investments. The McGovern Center maintains a state-of-the-art incubator facility on Cornell’s Ithaca campus. Learn More Praxis Center for Venture Development fosters the development of Cornell early stage startups in digital and physical sciences. As a Cornell incubator on the Ithaca campus, the center helps Cornell startups grow from interesting ideas to self-sufficient enterprises—focusing on accelerating technology and product development, validating value propositions, and strengthening management teams. The center helps companies to generate significant external investments in order to achieve a sustainable level of economic activity. Learn More Entrepreneurship at Cornell, a diverse university-wide program, discovers and stimulates the entrepreneurial spirit throughout the Cornell University campuses. The program inspires entrepreneurship at Cornell through educational initiatives, experiential learning, and entrepreneurial and networking events and resources. Learn More Weill Cornell Medicine BioVenture eLab, part of BioPharma Alliances and Research Collaborations, fosters an entrepreneurial ecosystem for researchers, clinicians, and staff at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM). Providing access to resources, training, and mentorship in biomedical entrepreneurship, the program positions members the WCM community for success as leaders in new ventures as well as in life science industries. Learn More Cornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) brings Cornellians together to talk face to face about entrepreneurial topics. The network provides the opportunity to connect Cornellians—those who have extensive experience and knowledge with those who want to know more—to discuss topics ranging from pitching an idea to owning a startup to finding angel investors. CEOs, serial entrepreneurs, and other experts are always available to encourage Cornell entrepreneurs. Learn More eLab, an accelerator program for student startups, is a highly competitive year-long experience that enables students to grow their businesses and earn course credit at the same time. Student teams have the opportunity to refine their business ideas, strengthen their teams, and improve their entrepreneurial skills. Students meet regularly with instructors, and eLab alumni and network with experienced entrepreneurs, investors, and Cornell alumni. Learn More Smith Family Business Initiative at Cornell supports and strengthens the network of owners, leaders, and alumni who work for a family business. The initiative is a collaboration between Bank of America and Cornell University to provide online learning for women entrepreneurs, concentrating on skills, knowledge, and resources for building, managing, and scaling a successful business. This online learning portal uses expertise from the Cornell Law School, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, Entrepreneurship at Cornell, and eCornell. Learn More Red Bear Angels, founded by a group of Cornell Board of Trustee Emeriti and alumni venture capitalists, creates a route to individual investors who can be most helpful to Cornell entrepreneurs. Red Bear Angels makes it easier for individuals to make angel investments in startups tied to Cornell University and its alumni. Learn More Cornell Economic Impact and Entrepreneurship Website shows how Cornell’s expertise in research, technology, and business education impacts communities globally in meaningful ways. The university’s mission extends beyond the classroom to helping entrepreneurs access the research and mentorship they need to start and grow successful businesses. Learn More The Leland C. and Mary M. Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship (PIHE) at the Cornell University SC College of Business Hotel School is a premier platform of knowledge in entrepreneurial thinking and behavior with an emphasis on hospitality, service, and customer experience. PIHE informs companies and students on nonlinear problem solving methodologies, opportunity identification, and innovation with constrained resources—all within the context of corporate, new venture, and social enterprises. In addition to preparing students to launch sustainable new ventures, this approach to entrepreneurship education also addresses the need for entrepreneurial thinkers within existing organizations. Learn More Innovation & Entrepreneurial Resources The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. CTL manages technology for the Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, New York. CTL’s mission is to bring the university’s scientific discoveries, technological innovations, and medical advances to the marketplace for societal benefit and to foster economic development within New York State and across the nation. Learn MoreSmall Business Development Directory Small Business Development Directory illustrates how Cornell technology is transferred from the lab bench to the real world through the creation of small businesses and the transfer of knowledge to industry, particularly in New York State. This online directory features small businesses that evolved from Cornell technologies, were founded by Cornell faculty, staff, students, and alumni with the benefit of Cornell resources, and that benefit from Cornell resources because of proximity to the university. It also covers all companies that licensed Cornell technology. Learn MoreKevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences nurtures the development of Cornell early stage life science startups. The center facilitates R&D to proof of principle, helping to build management teams, validate the business plans, and accelerate venture or industrial investments. The McGovern Center maintains a state-of-the-art incubator facility on Cornell’s Ithaca campus. Learn MorePraxis Center for Venture Development Praxis Center for Venture Development fosters the development of Cornell early stage startups in digital and physical sciences. As a Cornell incubator on the Ithaca campus, the center helps Cornell startups grow from interesting ideas to self-sufficient enterprises—focusing on accelerating technology and product development, validating value propositions, and strengthening management teams. The center helps companies to generate significant external investments in order to achieve a sustainable level of economic activity. Learn MoreEntrepreneurship at Cornell Entrepreneurship at Cornell, a diverse university-wide program, discovers and stimulates the entrepreneurial spirit throughout the Cornell University campuses. The program inspires entrepreneurship at Cornell through educational initiatives, experiential learning, and entrepreneurial and networking events and resources. Learn MoreWeill Cornell Medicine BioVenture eLab Weill Cornell Medicine BioVenture eLab, part of BioPharma Alliances and Research Collaborations, fosters an entrepreneurial ecosystem for researchers, clinicians, and staff at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM). Providing access to resources, training, and mentorship in biomedical entrepreneurship, the program positions members the WCM community for success as leaders in new ventures as well as in life science industries. Learn MoreCornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) Cornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) brings Cornellians together to talk face to face about entrepreneurial topics. The network provides the opportunity to connect Cornellians—those who have extensive experience and knowledge with those who want to know more—to discuss topics ranging from pitching an idea to owning a startup to finding angel investors. CEOs, serial entrepreneurs, and other experts are always available to encourage Cornell entrepreneurs. Learn MoreeLab eLab, an accelerator program for student startups, is a highly competitive year-long experience that enables students to grow their businesses and earn course credit at the same time. Student teams have the opportunity to refine their business ideas, strengthen their teams, and improve their entrepreneurial skills. Students meet regularly with instructors, and eLab alumni and network with experienced entrepreneurs, investors, and Cornell alumni. Learn MoreSmith Family Business Initiative at Cornell Smith Family Business Initiative at Cornell supports and strengthens the network of owners, leaders, and alumni who work for a family business. The initiative is a collaboration between Bank of America and Cornell University to provide online learning for women entrepreneurs, concentrating on skills, knowledge, and resources for building, managing, and scaling a successful business. This online learning portal uses expertise from the Cornell Law School, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, Entrepreneurship at Cornell, and eCornell. Learn MoreRed Bear Angels Red Bear Angels, founded by a group of Cornell Board of Trustee Emeriti and alumni venture capitalists, creates a route to individual investors who can be most helpful to Cornell entrepreneurs. Red Bear Angels makes it easier for individuals to make angel investments in startups tied to Cornell University and its alumni. Learn MoreCornell Economic Impact and Entrepreneurship Website Cornell Economic Impact and Entrepreneurship Website shows how Cornell’s expertise in research, technology, and business education impacts communities globally in meaningful ways. The university’s mission extends beyond the classroom to helping entrepreneurs access the research and mentorship they need to start and grow successful businesses. Learn MorePillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship The Leland C. and Mary M. Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship (PIHE) at the Cornell University SC College of Business Hotel School is a premier platform of knowledge in entrepreneurial thinking and behavior with an emphasis on hospitality, service, and customer experience. PIHE informs companies and students on nonlinear problem solving methodologies, opportunity identification, and innovation with constrained resources—all within the context of corporate, new venture, and social enterprises. In addition to preparing students to launch sustainable new ventures, this approach to entrepreneurship education also addresses the need for entrepreneurial thinkers within existing organizations. Learn More FIND CORNELL INNOVATORS search All Researchers Alumni Digital Dialogue with Plants Abraham Duncan Stroock, Gordon L. Dibble ’50 Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, College of Engineering A new multi-institution, transdisciplinary center will develop systems for two-way communication with plants, allowing scientists to remotely sense a plant’s biology and its immediate ecosystem, in hopes of one day using the information t... Read More > Dog DNA Startup Draws $75M Investment Adam R. Boyko, Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine Embark Veterinary Inc., a canine genetics startup company that graduated from Cornell’s McGovern Center business incubator in late 2017, announced $75 million in venture funding on July 26.Founded in 2015 by Adam R. Boyko, Biomedical S... Read More > Director Nurtures McGovern Incubator to Maturity Louis Walcer, Director, Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences When Lou Walcer ’74 stepped into the new business incubator space on Weill Hall’s fourth floor 10 years ago, he saw a blank canvas of opportunity.The Kevin M. McGovern ’70 Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences w... Read More > Cornell Innovation Has Real-World Impact Zhiming Shen ’18 PhD, Chief Technical Officer, Exotanium From its founding, Cornell University has emphasized real-world impact through cutting-edge innovation and breakthrough discoveries in its labs. In 2019, Reuters News Agency recognized the university’s strengths in these areas by placing ... Read More > VIEW MORE alumni profile From Greek Yogurt Waste to Viable Products alumni profile Amy Penick ’17, Research and Development Engineer, Capro-X "In the formative stages of a startup company like ours, I get to have my hands on all parts of the process." Read More > alumni profile Fueling Cornell Startups for Success alumni profile Robert M. Scharf ’77, Director, Praxis Center for Venture Development "The industry wasn’t advancing very rapidly, and they weren’t challenging themselves. I wanted to do more consequential things." Read More > alumni profile Fueling Cornell Startups for Success alumni profile Louis Walcer ’74, Director, Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences "I got the sense that the smaller companies were doing the more interesting stuff…there would be more fun and…opportunity for professional gratification by going smaller." Read More > alumni profile Helping Low-Income K-12 Children Succeed alumni profile Karim Abouelnaga ’13, Founder/CEO, Practice Makes Perfect "The inequality was staggering and unfair. So many children in communities and households just like mine were being written off before they were given adequate resources to succeed." Read More > VIEW MORE Digital Dialogue with Plants Abraham Duncan Stroock, Gordon L. Dibble ’50 Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, College of Engineering A new multi-institution, transdisciplinary center will develop systems for two-way communication with plants, allowing scientists to remotely sense a plant’s biology and its immediate ecosystem, in hopes of one day using the information t... Read More > Dog DNA Startup Draws $75M Investment Adam R. Boyko, Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine Embark Veterinary Inc., a canine genetics startup company that graduated from Cornell’s McGovern Center business incubator in late 2017, announced $75 million in venture funding on July 26.Founded in 2015 by Adam R. Boyko, Biomedical S... Read More > Director Nurtures McGovern Incubator to Maturity Louis Walcer, Director, Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences When Lou Walcer ’74 stepped into the new business incubator space on Weill Hall’s fourth floor 10 years ago, he saw a blank canvas of opportunity.The Kevin M. McGovern ’70 Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences w... Read More > Cornell Innovation Has Real-World Impact Zhiming Shen ’18 PhD, Chief Technical Officer, Exotanium From its founding, Cornell University has emphasized real-world impact through cutting-edge innovation and breakthrough discoveries in its labs. In 2019, Reuters News Agency recognized the university’s strengths in these areas by placing ... Read More > VIEW MORE Diversity and Inclusion Find a Center, Institute, Lab or Program 2021 Research Stats & Faculty Distinctions Graduate & Undergraduate Research The Research Division Cornell's Research Leadership and Contacts Explore News & Features Recently Funded Research Innovation in Action Life in the Lab Discover Something New Today Copyright Cornell Research 2015–2022 Contact Us Cornell Twitter Facebook RSS Feeds