Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Events + Training The Office of Research strives to identify and provide various training opportunities to support UC faculty, staff and student researchers Search for events: Event Training Upon Request Online Training See Past Events × Online Training Viral Vectors Target Audience: Open to the public and UC researchers who plan to work with viral vectors Research Office: Biosafety This training is required for individuals assigned to projects involving viral vectors. Before an IBC protocol can be approved, PIs and authorized personnel must complete all applicable training modules. Individuals outside UC must login through the "External Login" link and create a new UC account. Go to Training for Viral Vectors × Online Training Conflicts of Interest in Research Target Audience: All faculty and staff who conduct research at UC Research Office: Office for Ethics in Industry Engagement Faculty and staff who participate in funded research at the University of Cincinnati must complete training on promoting objectivity in research. This training is required every four years, at a minimum, due to federal regulations governing conflicts of interest in research. The course for meeting this requirement is available in the UC online training application CPD (Continuous Professional Development). If you are a UC employee and have not completed the Conflict of Interest Training, you will not be able to complete your Outside Activity Report. Go to Training for Conflicts of Interest in Research × Online Training Export Compliance for Researchers Target Audience: All personnel conducting restricted work Research Office: Export Controls All personnel conducting restrictive work must complete Export Control training. The Export Compliance training is available online and is provided by the Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) at the University of Miami. The courses in CITI, “Export Compliance for Researchers part I and II”, are required for all personnel participating in restricted work. These courses are optional for all other University of Cincinnati faculty, staff and students, but are highly recommended. For a more detailed, in person training, please contact the Export Control Office at exportco@uc.edu. Go to Training for Export Compliance for Researchers × Online Training FDA Regulated Research Activities Online Training Target Audience: All principal investigators, co-principal investigators, and study coordinators engaged in FDA regulated research Research Office: Human Research Protection Program This online training includes 11 modules pertaining to FDA regulated research activities. These modules are specific to UC. FDA modules can be found under “Human Subjects Research Compliance Training”. All 11 modules must be completed. Further questions? Please visit our FDA FAQ page. Go to Training for FDA Regulated Research Activities Online Training × Online Training BioSafety Cabinets Training Target Audience: UC researchers who use biosafety cabinets as part of their research experiments Research Office: Biosafety This online training includes information on the purpose and proper use of biological safety cabinets. Approximately 15 minutes. Marcia Espinola, DVM, Director of Biosafety Office, Office of Research Integrity Go to Training for BioSafety Cabinets Training × Online Training Healthcare Worker (Recertification) Target Audience: Healthcare providers that will work with patients who are undergoing radiation therapy and require recertification. Research Office: Radiation Safety This online course is for the required for annual recertification. Please note, review and completion of the Radiation Safety Self-Learning Package is required prior to taking the online course. Go to Training for Healthcare Worker (Recertification) × Online Training Shipping of Biohazardous Materials Target Audience: UC researchers who plan to ship biohazard materials Research Office: Biosafety This online training provides information on the shipment of biohazard materials and helps the user identify if the materials within the package are regulated and what steps are required to comply. There are four training modules, each with a short quiz. Training certificates for this course are valid for 2 years. Go to Training for Shipping of Biohazardous Materials × Online Training RAM Worker Retraining Target Audience: Trained RAM workers needing annual retraining Research Office: Radiation Safety This is a refresher course that is required annually for all RAM workers and can be completed online or in person. Available to be accessed online through the Center for Continuous Development Contact the RSOf directly if you would like to attend a live retraining course. Radiation Safety Office, 513-558-4110 Go to Training for RAM Worker Retraining × Online Training Ancillary Worker Awareness Target Audience: Anyone with working duties that require entrance into a radiation area or a room where radiation generating equipment (RGE) is in operation. Research Office: Radiation Safety This video provides basic information regarding hazards, warnings, and signage for those individuals required to have limited/minimal exposure to sources of ionizing radiation. It will also provide contact information should for concerns related to Radioactive Materials (RAM) or Radiation Generating Equipment (RGE) Go to Training for Ancillary Worker Awareness × Online Training OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP) Target Audience: Anyone working on projects involving human-derived material Research Office: Biosafety This online training, provided by the Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Office, is intended for all individuals assigned to projects involving the use of human-derived materials (e.g. established and primary cells, blood, plasma, serum, tissues). It is required both at the time of initial work assignment and at least every 12 months thereafter. Go to Training for OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP) × Online Training Lab Hazards Awareness Training Target Audience: Support personnel, students and new employees Research Office: Biosafety This interactive online training has been primarily designed to those not familiar with the possible hazards present on a research laboratory. It discusses the different type of hazards (e.g. biological, chemical, radiological) and indicates where to get more information and educational materials. Go to Training for Lab Hazards Awareness Training × Online Training Authorized User (AU) Retraining Target Audience: Any authorized user (AU) Research Office: Radiation Safety This training is conducted to update AUs on any changes to relevant policy, regulatory or license changes. This workshop is presented live via Teams. Virtual class schedule and registration is available through the Center for Continuous Development website. Contact the Radiation Safety Office with any questions: 513-558-4110 or radiationsafety@uc.edu. Go to Training for Authorized User (AU) Retraining × Online Training Health Care Worker - Initial Target Audience: Healthcare workers who may provide care to patient(s) that have undergone treatment with sealed or unsealed radioactive materials Research Office: Radiation Safety This training is specific to healthcare workers who may provide care to patient(s) that have undergone treatment with sealed or unsealed radioactive materials. This workshop is presented live via Teams. Virtual class schedule and registration is available through the Center for Continuous Development website. Contact the Radiation Safety Office with any questions: 513-558-4110 or radiationsafety@uc.edu. Go to Training for Health Care Worker - Initial × Online Training Human Subject Research - CITI Target Audience: All researchers engaged in human subjects research at the University of Cincinnati Research Office: Human Research Protection Program All researchers engaged in human subjects research at the University of Cincinnati must complete training prior to engaging in research. Training is provided online using Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) at the Biomedical Research Alliance of New York (BRANY). The CITI curriculum is customized for you, based on the kind of research in which you are involved. A series of registration questions will identify the courses you need to complete. If you have already done CITI training in the past, that information will be maintained in your CITI record. For questions on how to register a new account with CITI or how to add a course to your CITI profile, please contact the HRPP office at 513-558-5259. Go to Training for Human Subject Research - CITI × Online Training Animal Acquisitions Target Audience: Anyone involved in the process of acquiring animals for an approved research protocol. Research Office: Animal Care and Use Program This course covers basic financial principles and the roles and responsibilities of anyone involved in the process of procuring animals. This course is open to all research staff but must be completed by Principal Investigators (PIs), Co-Investigators, PI Proxies, and the Fiscal Approvers/Financial staff designated to approve funds for the associated animal protocol. Go to Training for Animal Acquisitions × Training Upon Request Leather Research Laboratory Education Opportunities Target Audience: Faculty/Researchers interested in the Leather Industry Research Office: Research Programs The Leather Research Laboratory at the University of Cincinnati is pleased to offer a variety of educational courses specifically designed to address the needs of those in the leather industry. Courses include Leather Orientation course (offered in April and August), Quality Assurance for Leather Workshop (offered in May and September), and Leather Buyers Conference. They will also design a custom course for your company. Request Training for Leather Research Laboratory Education Opportunities × Training Upon Request Introduction to Biosafety Target Audience: Any researcher Research Office: Biosafety This training provides an introduction to biological safety issues including definitions, risk assessment, principles, safe laboratory practices and disinfection methods. Takes about one hour. Request Training for Introduction to Biosafety × Training Upon Request Advanced Radiation Worker Training Target Audience: Individuals who will use or possess radioactive material Research Office: Radiation Safety This training is a follow-up to the Basic Radiation Safety training with a focus on advanced concepts to provide specifics of the University of Cincinnati Radiation Control and Safety Program for individuals who will use or possess radioactive material. This workshop is presented live via Teams. Virtual class schedule and registration is available through the Center for Continuous Development website. Contact the Radiation Safety Office with any questions: 513-558-4110 or radiationsafety@uc.edu. Request Training for Advanced Radiation Worker Training × Training Upon Request Basic Radiation Worker Training Target Audience: Anyone who works with radioactive materials Research Office: Radiation Safety This training will provide fundamental knowledge necessary to protect yourself and others while working with radioactive materials. This training is required for all individuals who will use/possess radioactive materials. This workshop is presented live via Teams. Virtual class schedule and registration is available through the Center for Continuous Development website. Contact the Radiation Safety Office with any questions: 513-558-4110 or radiationsafety@uc.edu. Request Training for Basic Radiation Worker Training × Training Upon Request IRB Office Hours in the Faculty Enrichment Center (Langsam Library) Target Audience: UC faculty and staff Research Office: Human Research Protection Program IRB Coordinators from the Human Research Protection Program will provide consulting for UC faculty and staff with questions about IRB submissions every month on the first Tuesday of the month from 1pm-4pm and the third Tuesday of the month from 9am-12pm. Walk-ins are welcome. Further Questions: Contact Deborah Stewart (quinonda@ucmail.uc.edu) × Training Upon Request IRB Appointments Available for CECH faculty, staff, and students Target Audience: CECH Faculty, staff and students Research Office: Human Research Protection Program The CECH IRB Coordinator is available by appointment for CECH Faculty, staff and students to answer questions and provide support for IRB submissions. Further Questions: Contact Christa Preston (prestoca@ucmail.uc.edu) × Training Upon Request ACUP Orientation Target Audience: All personnel working with vertebrate animals Research Office: Animal Care and Use Program All personnel joining a UC IACUC protocol must first complete required training per the ACUP Training Policy. This includes both research personnel (animal handlers) and administrative personnel (non-animal handlers). Each individual’s training requirements are specific to their responsibilities on the IACUC protocol: All Individuals IACUC Orientation Working with the IACUC Animal Handlers Working with Species in Research Settings Occupational Health and Safety Program for Animal Handlers LAMS Facility Orientation OR Satellite/Field Orientation Species Skills Procedural Trainings Animal Ordering Principles of Surgery LAMS Hazard Training Request Training for ACUP Orientation × Training Upon Request Common Rodent Techniques and Procedures Target Audience: All personnel working with vertebrate animals Research Office: Animal Care and Use Program Researchers may request free training from LAMS Veterinary Staff on rodent techniques and procedures specific to their approved IACUC protocol, including but not limited to: Common Rodent Techniques Note: Procedures may be performed with or without anesthesia depending on trainee comfort unless otherwise noted. Restraint: manual and mechanical Identification methods: ear tag, ear notch Nail trimming Injection: SQ, IM, IP, IV, oral gavage Rodent anesthesia machine instruction and anesthetic monitoring Venipuncture: submandibular, saphenous, jugular, tail clip, tail lacerations and retro‐orbital injections/bleeding (under anesthesia) Intracardiac injections and cardiocentesis Rodent Surgical Procedures Castration Vasectomy Ovariectomy Splenectomy Nephrectomy Renal capsule implant Subcutaneous osmotic mini‐pump implants Mammary fat pad injections Renal ischemia/reperfusions Rodent Necropsy Procedures Tissue harvest Gross cadaver examination Perfusion (formalin/formaldehyde) Course duration is dependent on procedure(s) requested. To schedule, submit a Veterinary Service Request in RAP AOPS with your availability and requested techniques Request Training for Common Rodent Techniques and Procedures Past Events × Training Upon Request USDA Covered Species Training Target Audience: All researchers (and team members) working with USDA covered species Research Office: Animal Care and Use Program IACUC requires LAMS general training for the USDA-covered species being utilized. Training is specific to the protocol and is customized for the procedures and techniques researchers will be performing. To schedule additional training, please fill out a veterinary service request. Holly Stallkamp, RVT, Veterinary Technician Supervisor, LAMS Office, Office of Research Integrity × 23 May 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Logic Models - A Skill-Building Workshop to Improve your Grant Proposals (5/23) Time: May 23, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom only Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development In this interactive session, Dr. Liz Litzler from the University of Washington will work with attendees to build their capacity to create a useful logic model that can be used to design and evaluate a project/grant. Logic models are a solid tool to help ensure continuity and achievement of your project goals. Attendees will walk away with a greater level of comfort and confidence about logic models and evaluation, relevant resources, and an initial draft of your own project logic model. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 16 May 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than a Bunch of Numbers (5/16) Time: May 16, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: Early Career faculty participating in 12-wk writing group, All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, Office of Research staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 09 May 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing the One Pager - The Shortest Path to Success_EARLY CAREER (5/9) Time: May 9, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) Lounge Target Audience: Faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type Research Office: Research Development Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. If you plan on attending, you may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 02 May 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing a Good Data Management Plan (5/2) Time: May 2, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Are you looking for guidance to write a good data management plan to accompany your successful grant application? In this interactive workshop, participants will use tools such as a checklist, template, and example language to compose the main points of a grant worthy data management plan appropriate for most funders. If you are interested in attending you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 28 Apr 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Using Dimensions for the Competitive Edge in Your Research (4/28) Time: April 28, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development In this workshop, attendees will learn to use the online database Dimensions to: Discover the latest publications, awarded grant funding, clinical trials or patents on their research interest, worldwide. Benchmark against other research organizations, funders, publications or researchers in a particular topic, or across all research activity. Identify new sources of research funding for future funding applications. Identify potential research collaborators in their discipline. Learn about the Dimensions API and how it can be used to generate specific datasets for their research. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 25 Apr 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Techniques to Make Your Proposal Competitive (4/25) Time: April 25, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will present the competitive intelligence framework and demonstrate how faculty can use this framework to improve their proposals. There are five types of analyses regularly performed in academia; external profiles, capacity analysis, landscape analysis, program analysis, and sponsor analysis. Each will be discussed along with which analyses can turn your proposal into a competitive proposal. There are three key takeaways; how to give your proposal a competitive edge, how to learn about your competition, and how to align your proposal to fit sponsor and program goals. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 20 Apr 2022 Event U-I Partnerships in the Social Sciences (4/20 - 4/22) Time: April 20, 12:00 AM - April 22, 12:00 AM Location: The Hotel at the University of Maryland Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The University of Maryland, College Park, in collaboration with UIDP and with support from the National Science Foundation, MITRE, Optimal Solutions, SAGE Publishing and the Consortium of Social Science Associations, is hosting the second part of this workshop, in person at The Hotel at the University of Maryland, April 20-21, 2022. The workshop will convene a diverse group of experts and leaders from academia, industry, and government to consider how academic-corporate partnerships can advance social, behavioral, and organizational science research to positively impact science and society. With the rapid growth of social networks over the last two decades and the corresponding availability of big data, the behavioral and social sciences have become increasingly important to the development and growth of organizations’ capacity to understand and address global challenges. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the importance of social science research during societal crises. Social, behavioral, and organizational science can help institutions address societal needs, and these contributions can be magnified through collaborations between academia and industry. × 19 Apr 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Early Career Grant Writing Workshop Q&A (4/19) Time: April 19, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Early career faculty and researchers, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Are you considering writing an early career grant in the coming months? Did you attend the March 30th Early Career Grant Writing Workshop presented by Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies and now have more questions? Did you miss Lucy’s workshop and still have questions on writing an early career grant? Do you just want to hear the questions of others working on an early career grant? This session Q&A session is for you! Join us as we welcome Lucy and her expertise back for an open Question and Answer session on writing early career grants. In addition, we will announce details of an opportunity to join an online community working to write their early career grants in 12 weeks. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 15 Apr 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing Your Career Grant in 12-weeks Kickoff (2) (4/15) Time: April 15, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: Faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type Research Office: Research Development The Career Grant Writing Group is a supportive community to keep participants motivated and accountable as they work toward submitting their Career or similar grant. The group’s structure draws on research and experience demonstrating that writing productivity increases when faculty are accountable to a supportive peer community and write regularly in a semi-structured environment. The structure is based on the NSF CAREER grant call, but could be adapted to other NSF grants or other agencies. Career Grant Writing Group participants will have one online meeting, which will serve as an opportunity to meet one another and prepare for the upcoming 12 weeks culminating with the submission of your a grant in July. In addition, over the course of the 12 weeks, participants will commit to near-daily writing (for example, a minimum of a half an hour a day) and have opportunities for mini-workshops and/or office hours on important sections of the CAREER grant, such as budget preparation and writing your budget justification, data management plans, and education plans. Resources will be available to participants through a Canvas Community that can be used for logging your progress and barriers to scheduling your writing times to analyzing your reviews if this is not your first submission of your specific research topic. Finally, participants will be paired with another peer participant to provide ongoing writing support. Applicants should already have their research topic in mind and be ready to begin (or continue) writing toward the goal of grant submission in late July × 12 Apr 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing Your Career Grant in 12-weeks Kickoff (1) (4/12) Time: April 12, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: Faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type Research Office: Research Development The Career Grant Writing Group is a supportive community to keep participants motivated and accountable as they work toward submitting their Career or similar grant. The group’s structure draws on research and experience demonstrating that writing productivity increases when faculty are accountable to a supportive peer community and write regularly in a semi-structured environment. The structure is based on the NSF CAREER grant call, but could be adapted to other NSF grants or other agencies. Career Grant Writing Group participants will have one online meeting, which will serve as an opportunity to meet one another and prepare for the upcoming 12 weeks culminating with the submission of your a grant in July. In addition, over the course of the 12 weeks, participants will commit to near-daily writing (for example, a minimum of a half an hour a day) and have opportunities for mini-workshops and/or office hours on important sections of the CAREER grant, such as budget preparation and writing your budget justification, data management plans, and education plans. Resources will be available to participants through a Canvas Community that can be used for logging your progress and barriers to scheduling your writing times to analyzing your reviews if this is not your first submission of your specific research topic. Finally, participants will be paired with another peer participant to provide ongoing writing support. Applicants should already have their research topic in mind and be ready to begin (or continue) writing toward the goal of grant submission in late July × 01 Apr 2022 Event Designing Visual Interfaces for Data-Driven Science - Jillian Aurisano, PhD (4/1) Time: April 1, 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Visualization Lab 240H Braunstein – Geology-Math-Physics (GMP) Library Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The classical scientific discoveries that we study in school tend to follow a script: A scientist observes something interesting, designs experiments to test a hypothesis, and inspects the results, often with the aid of optical instruments, such as microscopes and telescopes, which bring small and large phenomena into focus. Today, science increasingly follows a different ‘data-driven’ script. We try to understand complex phenomena by capturing data through sensors and digitized scientific instruments, or generating data through simulation and crowd-sourcing. Given the size and complexity of this data, we then need computational methods throughout data collection and analysis, including “black box” methods that can be difficult for people to understand. To steer a large, data-driven scientific project, researchers with diverse expertise, as well as other stakeholders and decision makers, need to collaborate and understand data and computational methods as a team. In other words, our ability to generate new knowledge, in this context, depends on how well we can leverage big data, steer opaque computational methods, and collaborate. Data visualization is a critical component of this process, bring people into the loop with data and computational methods, and providing a platform for collaboration and communication. In this seminar, I will present my research engineering visualization environments ‘beyond the desktop’- including large and immersive environments- which integrate multi-user interactions ‘beyond mouse and keyboard’- such as speech, movement, gestures and an array of personal devices. I will present future plans for collaborative, visualization environments at the University of Cincinnati, and will discuss how these environments can support research, education and outreach at UC. × 31 Mar 2022 Event Virtual - HUTTON LECTURE: CONFRONTING THE GLOBAL CRISIS IN KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION - Bridget Pratt, University of Melbourne (3/31) Time: March 31, 5:00 PM - 6:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Learning objectives To identify five dimensions/components of social justice and how they are defined To understand how health research can be designed to promote those five dimensions of social justice To give examples of practical strategies to take these learnings forward in your own research practice Bio: Bridget is an ethics researcher and the Mater Senior Lecturer in Healthcare Ethics at Queensland Bioethics Centre at Australian Catholic University. She is a Visiting Professor at the Julius Centre for Global Health at Utrecht University in the Netherlands. She is an honorary at the Centre for Health Equity at the University of Melbourne. Bridget received her PhD in bioethics in 2012 and her Masters in International Health in 2009 from Monash University in Australia. From 2013 to 2015, Bridget was a Hecht-Levi fellow at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics and a research fellow in the Department of International Health at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. From 2013-2020, she was a research fellow in Centre for Health Equity at the School of Population and Global Health at the University of Melbourne. Bridget’s research interests include the ethics of global health research, health systems, and urban planning, with a focus on equity, social justice, and (more recently) ecological justice. In her work, she uses a combination of applied philosophy and qualitative methods, reflecting her belief that the most robust ethical guidance is informed by both theory and practice. She has developed ethical guidance on the following topics: research priority-setting, research governance, community engagement, ancillary care, capacity development, post-study benefits, and data sharing. × 31 Mar 2022 Event ETHICS AND EQUITY IN ACADEMIC PUBLISHING - Liz Scarpelli, Director of University of Cincinnati Press (3/31) Time: March 31, 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Liz Scarpelli and Andrew Cullison will facilitate a conversation about ethics and equity issues in academic publishing. Topics will include the rising costs of textbooks and the open access movement. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the publishing process. We will also discuss what limits there should be if any on the publication of controversial topics. About Liz Scarpelli Elizabeth Scarpelli is the founding director of the University of Cincinnati Press. Prior to starting the press in 2017, she worked as marketing and sales director at Rutgers University Press, textbook sales director at Cambridge University Press, textbook district sales director at Prentice Hall-Pearson, and Publishing Services Director Baker and Taylor. In addition to director, she acquires books for the Press in social justice across all disciplines, educational studies, academic-community collaborations, Ohio and the greater Cincinnati area, open educational resources, and open-access textbooks. She has a BA from Fordham University in Communications and a MA in Higher Education Administration from the University of Cincinnati. She is a member of the DE&I task force and OD Advisory Council for UC Library and the Rapid Response Team for UC-College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services. She is also a member of AUPress, Library Publisher Coalition, and is on the board of the Midwest Independent Publishers Association. × 31 Mar 2022 Event LEADERSHIP IN CRISIS - Jon Fortt, Co-anchor CNBC (3/31) Time: March 31, 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Jon Fortt will lead a discussion on Leadership in Crisis drawing from over two decades of experience covering leaders in the tech industry. Participants will also have a chance to sign-up for his online course The Black Experience in America for free. × 31 Mar 2022 Event ETHICAL ISSUES WITH CRYPTOCURRENCY - Michael Jones, University of Cincinnati (3/31) Time: March 31, 10:30 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join Michael Jones for a conversation on the ethical issues surrounding cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. About Michael Jones Michael Jones is an Associate Professor, Educator of Economics, at the University of Cincinnati. He earned his Ph.D. in Economics at the University of Notre Dame and his MBA. from the University of Cincinnati. Prior to receiving his Ph.D., he worked as a Senior Research Analyst for the Nielsen Company and as a Senior Business Development Manager at Cincinnati Bell. He is also the Academic Director for the Kautz-Uible Economics Institute and the Academic Director for the MS Applied Economics Program. × 31 Mar 2022 Event LEADERSHIP AND ALLYSHIP - Kristen Campbell, University of Cincinnati (3/31) Time: March 31, 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join UC doctoral candidate, Kristen Campbell, for an interactive workshop on Leadership and Allyship × 29 Mar 2022 Event Janet Moore & Team - The Collaborative for Transdisciplinary Justice Transformation (3/29) Time: March 29, 1:00 PM - 1:50 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This exploratory project tackles the wicked problem of the U.S. criminal justice crisis by gathering academics, community organizers, and system officials to identify strategies for reducing reliance on criminal justice systems as a default approach for preventing and addressing harm. Work product will comprise both the WHAT and the HOW of this work through action plans to advance top-priority strategies and co-learning on what helps or hinders the development of transdisciplinary, collaborative action research in the criminal justice context. × 29 Mar 2022 Event RESEARCH ACTION TEAMS SHOWCASE - Carlie Trott - Community-led Climate Resilience Planning for a More Equitable Cincinnati: Centering Equity and Justice through Neighborhood-level Advisory Councils (3/29) Time: March 29, 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research In Cincinnati and cities across the nation, racial and environmental injustices are intensified under a changing climate, fueling demands for climate justice. This interdisciplinary, community-engaged pilot project simultaneously enacts and examines what a more just, equitable, and sustainable neighborhood-level planning process might look like—one that centers the voices and actions of community members in critically-affected Cincinnati neighborhoods. × 29 Mar 2022 Event RESEARCH ACTION TEAMS SHOWCASE - Anne Steinert - The Avondale Neighborhood History Initiative (3/29) Time: March 29, 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Beginning in the summer of 2021, the Avondale Neighborhood History Initiative empowers residents of Avondale, Cincinnati’s largest Black neighborhood, to discover, preserve, and present the history of their own neighborhood. This community-led process “prioritize[s] leadership by those most affected by injustice and inequity in order to effect structural and systemic changes that can support and sustain inclusive and healthy communities.”1 The expected outcomes of this process will be a trained team of lay community historians who will conduct extensive research and collaborate with humanities scholars to plan a multi-modal three-site public history exhibition including a Black history walking trail, digital exhibitions, panel exhibits, an oral history project, and school programs. × 29 Mar 2022 Event RESEARCH ACTION TEAMS SHOWCASE - Kate Bonansinga - Step Up to Art: Art on Cincinnati's Staircases to Improve Public Health and Neighborhood Connection (3/29) Time: March 29, 9:00 AM - 9:50 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Can public art on Cincinnati’s exterior stairways improve the emotional and physical health of its residents and the connectivity between neighborhoods? Step Up to Art addresses this question by reimagining the pedestrian infrastructure, and consequently the future of social interaction, through the implementation of art to transform 19th-century stairways located in Cincinnati’s urban core. × 29 Mar 2022 Event UIDP Face2Face (3/29 - 4/1) Time: March 29, 12:00 AM - April 1, 12:00 AM Location: Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Place is the space where serendipity sparks innovation and collaboration. But place can also convey action. We’ve learned that intentionality and tenacity—meaningfully placing the pieces that enable industry-university partnerships—can bring together the people, processes, and technology for successful convergence. Discover how university-industry collaborations, many times in partnership with the government, can leverage the importance of place at UIDP Face2Face, where we will explore questions, strategies, opportunities, and success stories to inform future partnership journeys. Optional tours highlighting local partnerships and innovation, as well as two evening receptions, will punctuate the importance of place during our first face-to-face meeting post-COVID. × 28 Mar 2022 Event The Annual State of Research Town Hall (3/28) Time: March 28, 4:00 PM - 5:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us for the annual University of Cincinnati State of Research update. This virtual event will kick off with a presentation from UC's Vice President of Research Pat Limbach. Audience Q&A to follow. × 28 Mar 2022 Event COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM PILOT GRANTS - Virtual Funding Pitch Day (3/28) Time: March 28, 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join the Office of Research as each of the Pilot Grant finalists pitch their idea to an expertly assembled review panel. Each finalist will be allotted time for their formal pitch followed by a moderated Q&A with the Vice President for Research and the review panel. At the finalist stage, both the written application and pitch will be evaluated as an integrated whole. The review criteria will focus on: Innovation/creativity of the idea and approach Soundness of the project plan in the given funding time period Broader impacts (e.g., efforts to broaden participation; potential to place UC/college/unit as a leader in the field; alignment with UC, local or state priorities) Overall quality, clarity and creativity of pitch Suitability of the team to undertake and complete the proposed project, including past performance on internally and externally funded projects (as appropriate) × 28 Mar 2022 Event UIDP - Mission in Motion - HBCU Engagement with Industry (3/28 - 3/30) Time: March 28, 12:00 AM - March 30, 12:00 AM Location: Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Industry, academia, government, and non-profits share many goals for collaboration and diverse talent development. Together, we accomplish great things. This multi-sector forum brings together thought leaders and practitioners to develop actionable strategies that magnify the impact. Mission in Motion is organized by UIDP and overlaps with its spring 2022 conference, which will also take place at the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center in Atlanta, GA. × 24 Mar 2022 Event UC Research Conversation: Coded Bias (screening) and Panel Discussion (3/24) Time: March 24, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Online Target Audience: All faculty, staff, post-docs, students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development CODED BIAS explores the fallout of MIT Media Lab researcher Joy Buolamwini’s discovery that facial recognition does not see dark-skinned faces accurately, and her journey to push for the first-ever legislation in the U.S. to govern against bias in the algorithms that impact us all. Modern society sits at the intersection of two crucial questions: What does it mean when artificial intelligence increasingly governs our liberties? And what are the consequences for the people AI is biased against? When MIT Media Lab researcher Joy Buolamwini discovers that many facial recognition technologies do not accurately detect darker-skinned faces or classify the faces of women, she delves into an investigation of widespread bias in algorithms. Through this exclusive arrangement, you can stream the film from the comfort of your own home anytime during the screening period. Then, on March 24, 2022 at 3:00 p.m. join us for a live panel discussion alongside the filmmaker/director, Shalini Kantayya. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 22 Mar 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Early Career Grant Writing Workshop (3/22) Time: March 22, 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies will be here for a basic grant writing workshop focused on early career and/or young investigator grants and is open to all faculty. This workshop is highly interactive and is targeted toward faculty who are ready to, or are considering applying, for early career or young investigator grants within the next few years. The workshop includes a series of discussions about the workshop topics along with some exercises and examples. Materials: Additional materials and resources will be provided to each participant. These will include additional background materials, resources, and example sections of successful proposals. × 17 Mar 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Building Your Team - Team Science (3/17) Time: March 17, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Forming a research team and looking for collaborators? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from co-investigators and collaborators to graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 07 Mar 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Confessions of Serial Reviewers (3/7) Time: March 7, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Regardless of the questions you have had upon receiving your proposal reviews or if you are getting ready to submit your first proposal/grant and are planning ahead, this is the session for you. We will explore different approaches that reviewers take when reviewing and give some tips on how to strategically plan to get the reviewers interest and anticipate their reaction. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development × 02 Mar 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Talking to Your Program Officer (3/2) Time: March 2, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Are you ready to have a conversation with a federal agency program officer but don’t know how to start? Are you interested in learning about how an NIH Study Section works? Having these conversations and understandings are a key step to gaining valuable insight into the funding potential of your ideas. In this interactive session, you’ll learn from faculty who are or have recently worked at major federal agencies or with NIH as they share the do’s and don’t’s of making contact, meeting logistics and follow-up. Plus, you’ll hear their tips on effective ways to talk about your research. Questions may be submitted in advance to Research Development. × 22 Feb 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: How to Navigate Human Subject Research (2/22) Time: February 22, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom only Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Attendees will gain additional knowledge on navigating human subject research and the process at the University of Cincinnati. × 18 Feb 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than a Bunch of Numbers (2/18) Time: February 18, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, Office of Research staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 17 Feb 2022 Event Flashpoint Series: Is Cryptocurrency the Future of Philanthropy (2/17) Time: February 17, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research In 2021, the market cap of cryptocurrencies exceeded $3 trillion, 6 new crypto billionaires joined the Forbes 400, and the CEO of Twitter sold an NFT for charity. With the Giving Block reporting a 583% increase in cryptocurrency donations in 2021, how should philanthropies embrace this transformative technology? Our panelists will discuss their experiences with accepting and using cryptocurrencies to advance their nonprofit mission. Panelists: Michael Jones, Kautz-Uible Professor in Economics, Kautz-Uible Economics Institute Jai Chabria, Moderator - Managing Director, Mercury Alex Wilson, Co-Founder, The Giving Block Erin Clemons, President & CEO, Northern Cincinnati Foundation Edwin Goutier, VP of Innovation, United WayRSVP × 07 Feb 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing the One Pager - The Shortest Path to Success (2/7) Time: February 7, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 03 Feb 2022 Event OFRN Opportunity Day (2/3) Time: February 3, 8:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Ohio Federal Research Network (OFRN) Opportunity Days are brought to you by Parallax Advanced Research in collaboration with The Ohio State University and the Ohio Department of Higher Education and are a new monthly event series geared toward OFRN’s government, academic, and industry partners, as well as anyone interested in collaborating with another entity to solve a government challenge based on posted opportunities and customer discussions. These monthly events will feature networking during virtual breakout sessions, welcoming remarks, and program status updates from OFRN leadership, presentations from thought leadership and government subject matter experts (speakers and topics will change per event), and a discussion with Q&A on state and federal opportunities. × 02 Feb 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Equipment Solicitations (2/2) Time: February 2, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: FEC 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will give allow attendees to better understand requirements, similarities and difference in equipment solicitations from Federal sponsors. During the workshop we will also go over the resources that are available to investigators as they develop an instrumentation proposal. × 31 Jan 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Cradle to Grave - Navigating Sponsored Research Administration on Your Research Projects (1/31) Time: January 31, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (FEC) 540F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop is designed to provide faculty a basic overview of how to navigate the various requirements, what is expected of a Principal Investigator (PI), and where to go for assistance. The focus is on general and fiscal administration, with an emphasis on federal regulations and guidelines. You may submit questions in advance of the workshop by emailing Research Development. × 27 Jan 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Utilizing Graphics in Your Research Proposal (1/27) Time: January 27, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Zoom (ONLINE ONLY) Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development We will be focusing on a three part delivery for this workshop. First, a short presentation with principles for designing better diagrams; second, a hands on exercise of updating a diagrams based on a principle, and finally, dedicated time to see the outcomes. × 26 Jan 2022 Event UIDP Contracting Forum (1/26 - 1/28) Time: January 26, 12:00 AM - January 28, 12:00 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Intermediate/Advanced Tracks will be offered to maximize impact for attendees. Master Agreements Federal Grant Opportunities for U-I Collaborations How U-I Partnered During COVID Foreground Intellectual Property Export Control and Foreign Influence Tax-Exempt Bonds Impact on Industry Research Agreements Why Getting to Yes on Research Agreements is so Hard × 18 Jan 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: How to Find Funding Opportunities (1/18) Time: January 18, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you is important. In this session, you will learn from experts where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders' interests, missions, and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. Feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 13 Jan 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Office of Research - Expert Round Table (1/13) Time: January 13, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This is an opportunity to learn about important processes and resources from top institutional research leaders who can help you make the most of your research efforts at UC and do it fast! This workshop will feature experts sharing their tips and processes to help people more easily navigate their research endeavors here at the University of Cincinnati. × 12 Jan 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: NIH Update - Biosketch and Other Support Changes (1/12) Time: January 12, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development The presenters will discuss key changes to the biosketch and other support format pages that will be required for applications, JIT requests, and RPPRs due on or after January 25, 2022. Significant changes impact the Other Support section and applicants need to be aware of these new requirements for disclosure and transparency. New features such as in-kind support and a signature block will be discussed as well as what is required to be uploaded in Other Support if you hold a foreign appointment and/or foreign research grant/contract × 10 Jan 2022 Event Research Development & Support Series: Getting Started with SciENcv to Create Your Biosketch (NIH,NSF, IES) and Current and Pending (NSF) (1/10) Time: January 10, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development In this session, you will be given an overview of the National Center for Biotechnology and Information (NCBI) and SciENcv, how linking your ORCID can save you time when creating your biosketch in SciENcv. You will be provided with some tips and tricks, as-well-as best practices for creating and saving your biosketches ad other support documents. You may submit questions in advance of the workshop by emailing Research Development. × 06 Jan 2022 Event Max's Last Event (1/6) Time: January 6, 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Virtual (ZOOM) Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Words × 10 Dec 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Advanced Budgeting (12/10) Time: December 10, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: TBD and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, researchers, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop is an expansion on the principles discussed in our basic budgeting workshop. We will go into more detail about some of the trickier elements of budgeting, such as distinguishing between subcontractors and consultants, defining capital equipment, determining the MTDC base, student aid vs. student wages, and other items. We encourage attendees to bring their own questions and cases from budgets they are working or have worked on, and we can provide specific guidance as needed. Feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 09 Dec 2021 Event IRiS Alloy Discussion Series: Hallucinations & the Nature of Perception (12/9) Time: December 9, 7:30 PM - 9:00 PM Location: The Swing House 1373 Avon Place Cincinnati, OH 45225 Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us for the IRiS Alloy Series, a meeting of minds in curious conversation. These wide-ranging conversations involving intimate, participatory audiences, will tackle questions at the cutting edge of sensing research, hosted in unique locations around the city. This event is a limited-engagement in-person event by RSVP only. Proof of vaccination or a negative test result from a recent COVID test will be required. × 07 Dec 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: DOD 102 - Where in DOD? (12/7) Time: December 7, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: in-person TBD / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Description forthcoming × 02 Dec 2021 Event Lunch And Learn Series 4: Did You Know...Making Impact With Your Work Beyond The Publication (12/2) Time: December 2, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Did you know that your research impact can be improved through data sharing and using persistent identifiers. This session will introduce UC resources for data sharing and uniquely identifying you and your works. × 30 Nov 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: NIH Update - Biosketch and Other Support Changes (11/30) Time: November 30, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Langsam FEC 540FG / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development If you are interested in attending, you may submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 18 Nov 2021 Event IRiS Alloy Discussion Series: Biomimicry & the Future of Sensing (11/18) Time: November 18, 7:30 PM - 9:00 PM Location: Greater Cincinnati Airmen Club Cincinnati Municipal Airport - Lunken Field 262 Wilmer Avenue Cincinnati, OH 45226 Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us for the IRiS Alloy Series, a meeting of minds in curious conversation. These wide-ranging conversations involving intimate, participatory audiences, will tackle questions at the cutting edge of sensing research, hosted in unique locations around the city. This event is a limited-engagement in-person event by RSVP only. Proof of vaccination or a negative test result from a recent COVID test will be required. × 17 Nov 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: DOD 101 - Why DOD? (11/17) Time: November 17, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Langsam FEC 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Are you wondering what DOD stands for? Are you interested in learning more about and working with the Department of Defense? Do you know who Lewis-Burke Associates are? Are you interested in learning more from our Lewis-Burke Associates relationship? These and other questions will be answered during this workshop on. Lewis-Burke Associates are the University of Cincinnati’s government relations firm in Washington D.C., and this is a chance to meet some of our Lewis-Burke advisors. In addition, learn how your research can support the DOD science and technology enterprise and U.S. national security. Lewis-Burke provides clients with informed strategies and effective approaches to supporting federal agencies across the government, including DOD and other national security agencies. Partners from Lewis-Burke Associates will provide a “DOD 101” seminar to introduce the Department of Defense (DOD) and national security related research and development opportunities. The seminar will be an overview of how the DOD is organized, funds science and technology including identification of funding agencies, programs, partnerships, solicitation interpretation, and engagement strategies. Come learn the ins and outs of how to successfully compete for DOD funding for your research. A Q&A session will follow the seminar. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 09 Nov 2021 Event Lunch And Learn Series 3: Did You Know...Organizing And Presenting Your Research (11/9) Time: November 9, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Did you know that RDS can help you enhance your research abstracts and conference posters? This session will present strategies for writing effective abstracts using the IMRaD format. It will provide registrants with a guide for transforming an abstract into an award-winning poster presentation. Finally, the session will provide strategies for presenting the poster to colleagues and conference judges. Whether you are a clinician, researcher or a graduate student in a health-related discipline, this session is for you! × 05 Nov 2021 Event UC's 6th Annual Data Day (11/5 - 11/6) Time: November 5, 12:00 AM - November 6, 12:00 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Researchers producing and using data face similar but unique, challenges in data management, data sharing, reproducible research, and preservation. Researchers have a tremendous responsibility to ensure that the data they produce, and share is equitable as it impacts individuals and communities the world over. When data is collected and shared incorrectly, it can advance inequities, bias, and even violence. Researchers must be aware of methods to mitigate these and how to generate data that is free of bias, is equitable, and inclusive to avoid any miscommunication and/or ambiguity regarding their data. Data Day 2021 highlights these challenges and showcases solutions and opportunities in which we can re-examine data through an equity lens. × 28 Oct 2021 Event The State of the Ohio River: Water Quality, Infrastructure & Economic Development (10/28) Time: October 28, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Ohio River is a source of drinking water, jobs, and recreation for millions of Americans. Its importance to the region cannot be understated, but the conversation around this precious natural resource is often lacking. Our panelists talk about the Ohio River’s challenges and how UC, the government, and the private sector is working to overcome them. Engage with us as we tackle these critical issues. Panelists: Patrick Ray, Water Expert, University of Cincinnati Melinda Kruyer, Executive Director, Confluence Kyle McCune, Hydraulic Engineer, US Army Corps of Engineers Jason Stephens, Representative, State of Ohio - 93rd District Brett Walton, Senior Reporter - Circle of Blue Moderated by Jai Chabria, Managing Director, Mercury × 27 Oct 2021 Event Data Visualization With Python (10/27) Time: October 27, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Baldwin 850D Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is the fifth workshop in the series of five Python workshops being taught on the ARC Cluster. Attending the prior workshops and experience with Python or any other programming language is strongly encouraged. This workshop focuses on three visualization libraries, matplotlib, pandas, and seaborn. Beginners are encouraged to attend the first four workshops, before attending the Data Visualization. Please have Google Chrome (preferred) or Mozilla Firefox web browser installed. For supplemental information, see guides.libraries.uc.edu…. For step by step instructions for connecting to ARC, see guides.libraries.uc.edu… . Note that you will not be able to connect to ARC until an account has been created for you. If you plan to attend from off campus, you will need the VPN - see here for instructions. Note - This workshop will be in the Engineering Library. If we need to change to a remote format, details will be provided in an email 1 week prior to the workshop. × 25 Oct 2021 Event Data Analysis With Python (10/25) Time: October 25, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Baldwin 850D Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The fourth workshop in a series of five Python workshops being taught on the ARC cluster. Data Analysis with Python builds on the topics of "Introduction to Python" and "Intermediate Python". Basic knowledge of Python or attendance of the previous workshops is strongly recommended. We will work with a data file using the Pandas and Numpy packages. Some topics that will be covered include exploring a Pandas dataframe object, dataframe and series slicing and indexing, querying dataframes, running statistics on dataframes, grouping and aggregations on dataframes and making basic plots with Pandas. Please have Google Chrome (preferred) or Mozilla Firefox web browser installed. For supplemental information, see guides.libraries.uc.edu…. For step by step instructions for connecting to ARC, see guides.libraries.uc.edu… . Note that you will not be able to connect to ARC until an account has been created for you. If you plan to attend from off campus, you will need the VPN - see here for instructions. Note - This workshop will be in the Engineering Library. If we need to change to a remote format, details will be provided in an email 1 week prior to the workshop. × 22 Oct 2021 Event Intro To UC's Advanced Research Computing (ARC) Resources: HPC Computing/Analysis Tools For Research & Education (10/22) Time: October 22, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Langsam Library Room 475 Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The rapid advancement and introduction of new processing technologies for computing have facilitated the convergence of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), Data Analytics and Big Data and the High-Performance Computing (HPC) platforms into a ‘modern HPC’ environment which includes batch, interactive and web-based computing tools to meet a diverse community of researcher’s needs. In this introduction to modern HPC tools available in UC’s Advanced Research Computing (ARC) center, users will get hands on experience submitting a batch job, running a job that uses containers, and, if time allows, scheduling and executing a job that uses the cluster GPU nodes. We will provide a brief introduction to the cluster’s web front-end where users can interactively compute on the cluster, including easy-to-use Jupyter Notebooks or RStudio for education and research. × 22 Oct 2021 Event Intermediate Python (10/22) Time: October 22, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Baldwin 850D Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is the third workshop in a series of five Python workshops being taught on the ARC cluster. Intermediate Python builds on the topics of the "Introduction to Python" workshop. Basic knowledge of Python or attendance at the "Introduction to Python" beginner's workshop is strongly recommended. Topics will include: Modules, Imports, Classes/Objects, Packages, Libraries, File I/O, Errors, Exceptions, IPython and Anaconda distribution, Running Python on Jupyter Notebook. Please have Google Chrome (preferred) or Mozilla Firefox web browser installed. For supplemental information, see guides.libraries.uc.edu…. For step by step instructions for connecting to ARC, see guides.libraries.uc.edu… . Note that you will not be able to connect to ARC until an account has been created for you. If you plan to attend from off campus, you will need the VPN - see here for instructions. Note - This workshop will be in the Engineering Library. If we need to change to a remote format, details will be provided in an email 1 week prior to the workshop. × 21 Oct 2021 Event Cleaning your data with OpenRefine (10/21) Time: October 21, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research OpenRefine is an open sourced, java-based, powerful tool that lets you clean your messy data easily and in ways Excel and other traditional spreadsheet software programs cannot. In this 2 hour hands-on workshop you will learn how to explore your data, how to clean and transform it, and how to automate processes. Go beyond “find and replace” to find all variations of a term (i.e., UC, U.C., Univ. of Cinci., University of Cincinnati, U Cincinatti) to correct errors, to group like categories together, to convert columns to new formats, to make mistakes, and to fix them. Participants should follow the directions to download the latest stable version of OpenRefine at this URL openrefine.org… Note – you may need to install Java separately. Please follow instructions to connect to the session in the Reminder Email sent by the FEC. × 21 Oct 2021 Event Github (10/21) Time: October 21, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Baldwin 850D Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research GitHub is a web-based repository for collaboration, version control, access control and source code management. This workshop introduces the fundamental uses of GitHub and walks through a simple collaborative exercise on GitHub. Research teams, students and faculty who envision working in teams for class projects and sharing resources such as software code are encouraged to attend. No prior experience is required. For supplemental information on this workshop, see guides.libraries.uc.edu…. Note - This workshop will be in the Engineering Library. If we need to change to a remote format, details will be provided in an email 1 week prior to the workshop. × 20 Oct 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Research Mentorship - Optimize Your Practice (10/20) Time: October 20, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Langsam FEC 540FG / Health Sciences Building G55 / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This Office and Research in collaboration with the Faculty Enrichment Center is excited to present a four-part series workshop focused on skills and tools for faculty and staff who mentor undergraduate and graduate student researchers. While many research mentors report positive experiences with their mentees, negative experiences commonly arise unintentionally. This discipline-inclusive program uses interactive, evidence-based activities to help mentors develop productive, mutually satisfying relationships with their mentees. The modules include Introduction, Aligning Expectations, Creating an Inclusive Culture, and Fostering Independence. To attend session 2, 3, and 4 you must be present at the 1st session. This workshop series will be delivered by employing a hybrid model, with both in-person and virtual options of attendance. × 11 Oct 2021 Event Research Development and Support Series: AtKisson Group (ATG) - Arts & Humanities Grant Writing Seminar (10/11 & 10/12) (10/11) Time: October 11, 1:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be broken up over two (2) half-day afternoon sessions (Monday October 11 and Tuesday October 12). The workshop is based on a combined presentation, hands-on reading and discussion approach, focusing on the rhetorical elements and information flow that underlie compelling grant proposals. How does the planning process impact the final proposal? What key information must be on the first page? How do you organize the discussion of the approach so that your plan is crystal clear to your reviewer? Many of the answers to these questions are common across funders, and the program provides both conceptual approaches and concrete methods for constructing competitive proposals. The day is facilitated by two presenters with extensive experience in successful grant applications to fund arts and humanities projects use and provide training in skills that can be used across funders. For a $50 registration fee, participants receive the presentation handouts and the Handbook for Planning and Writing Successful Proposals. The Handbook is used during the day and serves as a resource for proposal writing. × 11 Oct 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: AtKisson Group (ATG) NIH Grant Writing Seminar (10/11 & 10/12) (10/11) Time: October 11, 8:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be broken up over two (2) half-day morning sessions (Monday October 11 and Tuesday October 12). The workshop is based on a combined lecture, reading and discussion approach, focusing on the key organizational principles for writing competitive grant proposals. How does the planning process impact the final proposal? What key information must be on the first page? How do you organize the discussion of the approach so that your plan is crystal clear to your reviewer? Many of the answers to these questions are common across funders, and the program provides both conceptual approaches and concrete methods for constructing competitive proposals. The approach is based on over 20 years of grant writing and training experience across multiple agencies and disciplines. The presenter, M. S. (Peg) AtKisson founded the proposal and research development office at Tufts University starting as a contract grant writer in 2001. In 8 years she and her team contributed to $140,000,000 in funded proposals from NSF, NIH, USDA, USAID, Keck Foundation, and others. After working as a trainer for a grant writing consulting firm, Dr. AtKisson founded AtKisson Training Group (ATG) to expand training beyond the proposal document and into the overall planning for funding and academic success. Dr. AtKisson is a highly acclaimed public speaker with a track record of helping faculty improve their competitiveness for funding. For a $50 registration fee, participants receive the presentation handouts and the Handbook for Planning and Writing Successful Proposals. The Handbook is used during the day and serves as a resource for proposal writing. × 06 Oct 2021 Event Series: R Advanced Workshop (10/6) Time: October 6, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is the final workshop within a series meant only as an introduction to the R and R studio environment. × 04 Oct 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (10/4) Time: October 4, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Langsam FEC540FG / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be offered in a hybrid manner. Upon registration you will receive location information for in-person and a link to the Zoom room for the day. Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, Office of Research staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 01 Oct 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing the One Pager - The Shortest Path to Success (10/1) Time: October 1, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Langsam FEC540FG / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be offered in a hybrid manner. Upon registration you will receive location information for in-person and a link to the Zoom room for the day. Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. × 30 Sep 2021 Event Writing a Good Data Management Plan (9/30) Time: September 30, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you looking for guidance to write a good data management plan to accompany your successful grant application? In this interactive workshop, participants will use tools such as a checklist, template, and example language to compose the main points of a grant worthy data management plan appropriate for most funders. × 30 Sep 2021 Event Biodesign: What's Brewing in the Midwest? (9/30) Time: September 30, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us for an online symposium and open conversation with the founding members of the Midwest Biodesign Hub to learn more about their practices and perspectives on biodesign. In brief dialogues, they will discuss the skills, experiences, and backgrounds that have positioned the Midwest at the frontier of biodesign. Stay on afterwards for an interdisciplinary networking event. × 29 Sep 2021 Event Series: R Intermediate Workshop (9/29) Time: September 29, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is the second workshop within a series meant only as an introduction to the R and R studio environment. × 29 Sep 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Internal Funding Opportunities from the Office of Research (9/29) Time: September 29, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Langsam FEC 540 F/G and Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Description forthcoming × 29 Sep 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: NSF Update - Biosketch and Current/Pending Support Changes (9/29) Time: September 29, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Langsam FEC 540FG / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development The presenters will discuss key changes to the biosketch and current/pending support format pages that will be required for ongoing projects and proposals submitted or due, on or after October 4, 2021. Approved formats for creating current and pending support (SciENcv and NSF Fillable PDF) will be discussed as well as the NEW table developed titled “NSF Pre-award Disclosures Relating to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending Support”. The table identifies where information about professional affiliations, consulting, and ongoing research support is required to be disclosed. Learn about potential pitfalls to avoid when trying to upload your proposal as the presenters will discuss the differences in submitting in FastLane versus Research.gov. If you are interested in attending, you may submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 22 Sep 2021 Event Series: R Introduction Workshop (9/22) Time: September 22, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is the first workshop within a series meant only as an introduction to the R and R studio environment. × 21 Sep 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Building Your Research Team - Undergrads, Graduate Students, and Postdocs (9/21) Time: September 21, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Langsam FEC540FG / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be offered in a hybrid manner. Upon registration you will receive location information for in-person and a link to the Zoom room for the day. Forming a research team and looking for collaborators? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from co-investigators and collaborators to graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 14 Sep 2021 Event ESRI’s StoryMaps (9/14) Time: September 14, 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research ESRI’s StoryMap is an online story telling platform that combines images, text, and maps into an animated narrative. It can be used to convey in-depth research topics and for teaching in an accessible manner. This participatory workshop will provide the resources and lead attendees through the steps to create a representative StoryMap. × 13 Sep 2021 Event UC Research Conversations: UC's Collaboration with Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) - Virtual Site Visit (9/13) Time: September 13, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Zoom link provided upon registration Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Research Development Who is Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU)? How does the partnership with UC impact your research? What does ORAU offer to their partners? How can our partnership be so valuable to our faculty and staff at UC? We are excited to announce that our partners at ORAU will be “here” for a virtual site visit to answer these questions and many more. In addition to hearing about the partnership and its impact on research, we will engage in conversation with research leadership from around the campus that will provide additional insight to research happening here on campus. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Developmentt. × 08 Sep 2021 Event R Introduction Workshop (9/8) Time: September 8, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Brief introduction R; Explore R and R studio environment; Basic functions of R; R for basic calculation; R objects and assignments; Understanding functions and getting help in R; Download and install packages; Import data; Loading, viewing and exploring data; Simple modeling; Visualize data basics; Export data × 03 Sep 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: How to Find Funding Opportunities (9/3) Time: September 3, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Langsam FEC540FG / Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be offered in a hybrid manner. Upon registration you will receive location information for in-person and a link to the Zoom room for the day. Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you is important. In this session, you will learn from experts where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders' interests, missions, and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. Feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 31 Aug 2021 Event Machine Actionable Data Management Plans And The Dmptool (8/31) Time: August 31, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The DMPTool from the California Digital Library has many new features to help researchers create machine-actionable DMPs for most federal funders. In this presentation, Maria Praetzellis of the University of California Office of the President will introduce these new machine-actionable feature set from the DMPTool. × 24 Aug 2021 Event Technology Takes the Wheel (8/24) Time: August 24, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research We are headed down the road toward the future of transportation with connected and autonomous vehicles (CV/AV) – one that will greatly impact society, including our cities, rural communities, commerce and even agriculture. Subject matter experts from AAA, the University of Cincinnati, and DriveOhio will address the future impact of self-driving cars on Ohio roadways. Learn about CV/AV applications happening now, and the vision and planning taking place to create safe, inclusive and interconnected autonomous transportation systems of the future. Please mark your calendar as we examine the new technologies and ideas that will change the way we live, work, and play. × 11 Aug 2021 Event XSEDE HPC workshop: Big Data & Machine Learning (8/11) Time: August 11, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research XSEDE, along with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, is pleased to present a two day Big Data and Machine Learning workshop which will focus on topics such as Hadoop and Spark. × 10 Aug 2021 Event XSEDE HPC workshop: Big Data & Machine Learning (8/10) Time: August 10, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research XSEDE, along with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, is pleased to present a two day Big Data and Machine Learning workshop which will focus on topics such as Hadoop and Spark. × 05 Aug 2021 Event Workshop: Advanced Computing for Social Change Curriculum Development (8/5) Time: August 5, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This 2-day workshop provides materials informed by the ACSC student challenge to help introduce software tools, such as R, and classroom resources for data analysis, visualization, and computational modeling. The workshop will include some hands-on training using a virtual interface, but no special equipment or software is required. The goal is for attendees to leave the workshop with new curriculum materials and tools that will help to incorporate the use of data science tools to address social issues in their courses. × 04 Aug 2021 Event Workshop: Advanced Computing for Social Change Curriculum Development (8/4) Time: August 4, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This 2-day workshop provides materials informed by the ACSC student challenge to help introduce software tools, such as R, and classroom resources for data analysis, visualization, and computational modeling. The workshop will include some hands-on training using a virtual interface, but no special equipment or software is required. The goal is for attendees to leave the workshop with new curriculum materials and tools that will help to incorporate the use of data science tools to address social issues in their courses. × 29 Jul 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: NIH Update - Biosketch and Other Support Changes (7/29) Time: July 29, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development The presenters will discuss key changes to the biosketch and other support format pages that will be required for applications, JIT requests, and RPPRs due on or after January 25, 2022. Significant changes impact the Other Support section and applicants need to be aware of these new requirements for disclosure and transparency. New features such as in-kind support and a signature block will be discussed as well as what is required to be uploaded in Other Support if you hold a foreign appointment and/or foreign research grant/contract × 28 Jul 2021 Event Python Tools for Data Science (7/28) Time: July 28, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Python has become a very popular programming language and software ecosystem for work in Data Science, integrating support for data access, data processing, modeling, machine learning, and visualization. In this webinar, we will describe some of the key Python packages that have been developed to support that work, and highlight some of their capabilities. × 02 Jul 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Logic Models - A Skill-Building Workshop to Improve your Grant Proposals (7/2) Time: July 2, 11:00 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development In this interactive session, Dr. Liz Litzler from the University of Washington will work with attendees to build their capacity to create a useful logic model that can be used to design and evaluate a project/grant. Logic models are a solid tool to help ensure continuity and achievement of your project goals. Attendees will walk away with a greater level of comfort and confidence about logic models and evaluation, relevant resources, and an initial draft of your own project logic model. × 30 Jun 2021 Event Writing a Data Management Plan (6/30) Time: June 30, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you looking for guidance to write a good data management plan to accompany your successful grant application? In this interactive workshop, participants will use tools such as a checklist, template, and example language to compose the main points of a grant worthy data management plan appropriate for most funders. × 24 Jun 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Cradle to Grave - Navigating Sponsored Research Administration on Your Research Projects (6/24) Time: June 24, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New and continuing researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop is designed to provide faculty a basic overview of how to navigate the various requirements, what is expected of a Principal Investigator (PI), and where to go for assistance. The focus is on general and fiscal administration, with an emphasis on federal regulations and guidelines. × 18 Jun 2021 Event Workshop: Advanced Computing for Social Change Curriculum Development (Day 2) (6/18) Time: June 18, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop presents the Advanced Computing for Social Change (ACSC) faculty curriculum development and seeking faculty from diverse disciplines and backgrounds who would like to incorporate the ACSC approach to teaching data analytics and computational thinking into their curriculum or are interested in using these tools in their research. This 2-day workshop provides materials informed by the ACSC student challenge to help introduce software tools, such as R, and classroom resources for data analysis, visualization, and computational modeling. The workshop will include some hands-on training, but no special equipment or software is required. The goal is for attendees to leave the workshop with new curriculum materials and tools that will help to incorporate the use of data science tools to address social issues in their courses. No previous programming experience is necessary: both introductory and intermediate R methods will be presented. × 17 Jun 2021 Event Workshop: Advanced Computing for Social Change Curriculum Development (Day 1) (6/17) Time: June 17, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop presents the Advanced Computing for Social Change (ACSC) faculty curriculum development and seeking faculty from diverse disciplines and backgrounds who would like to incorporate the ACSC approach to teaching data analytics and computational thinking into their curriculum or are interested in using these tools in their research. This 2-day workshop provides materials informed by the ACSC student challenge to help introduce software tools, such as R, and classroom resources for data analysis, visualization, and computational modeling. The workshop will include some hands-on training, but no special equipment or software is required. The goal is for attendees to leave the workshop with new curriculum materials and tools that will help to incorporate the use of data science tools to address social issues in their courses. No previous programming experience is necessary: both introductory and intermediate R methods will be presented. × 16 Jun 2021 Event Using human dorsal root ganglia neurons to investigate somatosensation and skin-nerve integration in vitro (6/16) Time: June 16, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Webex (link to follow registration) Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Hosted by Procter & Gamble’s Skin Product Interaction Consortium and featuring speaker Dr. Steve Davidson of the UC College of Medicine's Department of Anesthesiology. × 11 Jun 2021 Event XSEDE HPC Workshop: HPC Summer Boot Camp (Day 4) (6/11) Time: June 11, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research XSEDE, along with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is pleased to present a Hybrid Computing workshop. This 4-day event will include MPI, OpenMP, GPU programming using OpenACC and accelerators. Tentative Agenda × 10 Jun 2021 Event XSEDE HPC Workshop: HPC Summer Boot Camp (Day 3) (6/10) Time: June 10, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research XSEDE, along with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is pleased to present a Hybrid Computing workshop. This 4-day event will include MPI, OpenMP, GPU programming using OpenACC and accelerators. Tentative Agenda × 09 Jun 2021 Event XSEDE HPC Workshop: HPC Summer Boot Camp (Day 2) (6/9) Time: June 9, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research XSEDE, along with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is pleased to present a Hybrid Computing workshop. This 4-day event will include MPI, OpenMP, GPU programming using OpenACC and accelerators. Tentative Agenda × 08 Jun 2021 Event XSEDE HPC Workshop: HPC Summer Boot Camp (6/8) Time: June 8, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research XSEDE, along with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is pleased to present a Hybrid Computing workshop. This 4-day event will include MPI, OpenMP, GPU programming using OpenACC and accelerators. Tentative Agenda × 02 Jun 2021 Event Cleaning your data with OpenRefine (6/2) Time: June 2, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research OpenRefine is an open sourced, java-based, powerful tool that lets you clean your messy data easily and in ways Excel and other traditional spreadsheet software programs cannot. In this 2 hour hands-on workshop you will learn how to explore your data, how to clean and transform it, and how to automate processes. Go beyond “find and replace” to find all variations of a term (i.e., UC, U.C., Univ. of Cinci., University of Cincinnati, U Cincinatti) to correct errors, to group like categories together, to convert columns to new formats, to make mistakes, and to fix them. × 27 May 2021 Event Webinar: Introduction to Computational Thinking Across the Curriculum (5/27) Time: May 27, 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty and Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This webinar will focus on inquiry-based learning enhanced by computational thinking with content and practice to assist teachers and faculty to incorporate modeling at all levels from mobile device to desktop to petascale supercomputing and beyond. The activities will expose participants to the basics of computational thinking, modeling, and data analysis. Participants from a broad range of disciplines, including, but not limited to, computer science, mathematics, and the physical and life sciences are welcome. Materials for the webinar are drawn from the National Science Digital Library (nsdl.oercommons.org), in particular resources from XSEDE as well as Shodor’s extensive Interactivate collection of lessons, discussions, activities, and supporting materials. The first two hours of the webinar will consist of presentation and activities, and the third hour will be reserved for questions and further discussion. × 17 May 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (5/17) Time: May 17, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, Office of Research staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 14 May 2021 Event Using the Jetstream APIs: an Introduction (5/14) Time: May 14, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Jetstream is a user-friendly, NSF-funded, cloud computing environment that is designed to provide configurable cyber-infrastructure to researchers. To learn more about Jetstream's features and how to use it, visit the topic Introduction to Jetstream. This topic covers advanced subjects related to accessing and controlling Jetstream's functionality through programmatic means such as Application Programmer Interfaces (APIs). APIs provide "low level" access that is designed to be powerful rather than easy to use. As such, the techniques described in this topic may be challenging for less experienced cloud computing users and programmers. × 14 May 2021 Event Using the Jetstream API's: An Introduction (5/14) Time: May 14, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Jetstream is a user-friendly cloud computing environment that is designed to provide configurable cyber-infrastucture to researchers. To learn more about Jetstream's features and how to use it, visit the topic Introduction to Jetstream. This topic covers advanced subjects related to accessing and controlling Jetstream's functionality through programmatic means such as Application Programmer Interfaces (APIs). APIs provide "low level" access that is designed to be powerful rather than easy to use. As such, the techniques described in this topic may be challenging for less experienced cloud computing users and programmers. Presenter Sanjana Sudarshan Senior Technical Advisor - Jetstream at Indiana University Bloomington × 14 May 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Using Dimensions for the Competitive Edge in Your Research (5/14) Time: May 14, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research In this workshop, attendees will learn to use the online database Dimensions to: Discover the latest publications, awarded grant funding, clinical trials or patents on their research interest, worldwide. Benchmark against other research organizations, funders, publications or researchers in a particular topic, or across all research activity. Identify new sources of research funding for future funding applications. Identify potential research collaborators in their discipline. Learn about the Dimensions API and how it can be used to generate specific datasets for their research. × 14 May 2021 Event UC Center for Public Engagement with Science Workshop - Day 3 - Philosophy of Science & Public Engagement with Science (5/14) Time: May 14, 12:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Philosophers of Science Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Day 3: Friday, May 14 - Philosophy of Science & Public Engagement with Science The workshop’s third day is intended primarily for philosophers of science. The goal is to have extended discussions about how to expand the discipline of philosophy of science’s participation in public engagement with science. This will include working group sessions on philosophy of science’s prospective contributions to each of the four conference themes, as well as discussion about how to address the challenges facing philosophers of science working on public engagement with science. 12:00 – 1:30 pm EDT - Topic-Specific Working Group Discussions Participant may join one of the four breakout sessions: (1) Science Communication (2) K-12 Science Education (3) Informal Science (4) Scientific Work with Communities 2:30 – 3:30 pm EDT - Disciplinary Transformation Working Group Discussions Participant may join one of the four breakout sessions: (1) Institutional Structures for Public Engagement with Science (2) Graduate Student Training in Public Engagement with Science (3) Disciplinary Recognition for Public Engagement with Science. 3:30 – 4:00 pm EDT - Group Reports and Concluding Remarks × 07 May 2021 Event UC Center for Public Engagement with Science Workshop - Day 2 - Informal Science Education (ISE) | Scientific Work with Communities (5/7) Time: May 7, 11:30 AM - 5:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Day 2: Friday, May 7 - Informal Science Education (ISE) | Scientific Work with Communities 11:30 – 12:30 pm EDT - ISE Keynotes Q&A Keynote speakers will answer pre-submitted and live questions about their pre-recorded talks. 12:45 – 2:00 pm EDT - [INTERACTIVE] - ISE Activity Participants will work in small groups to discuss adapting informal science education activities to focus on scientific methods and philosophy or history of science. This session will be highly interactive with small breakout groups. 2:15 – 2:45 pm EDT - [INTERACTIVE] - Networking Groups Interested participants will be assigned to small groups for an opportunity to network in small groups with other workshop attendees. 3:00 – 4:00 pm EDT - Scientific Work with Communities Keynotes Q&A Keynote speakers will answer pre-submitted and live questions about their pre-recorded talks. 4:15 – 5:30 pm EDT - Scientific Work with Communities Panel Discussion Littisha Bates - (Associate Dean for Inclusive Excellence and community Partnership, College of Arts & Sciences, and Association Professor of Sociology, University of Cincinnati) Kenneth Petren - (Interim Director of the UC Center for Field Studies; Professor of Biological Sciences, University of Cincinnati) Carlie Trott - (Assistant Professor of Social and Community Psychology at the University of Cincinnati) × 05 May 2021 Event XSEDE HPC Workshop: MPI (Day 2) (5/5) Time: May 5, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop is intended to give C and Fortran programmers a hands-on introduction to MPI programming. Both days are packed with useful information and lab exercises. Attendees will leave with a working knowledge of how to write scalable codes using MPI – the standard programming tool of scalable parallel computing. × 04 May 2021 Event Webinar: Introduction to Computational Thinking Across the Curriculum (5/4) Time: May 4, 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty and Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This webinar will focus on inquiry-based learning enhanced by computational thinking with content and practice to assist teachers and faculty to incorporate modeling at all levels from mobile device to desktop to petascale supercomputing and beyond. The activities will expose participants to the basics of computational thinking, modeling, and data analysis. Participants from a broad range of disciplines, including, but not limited to, computer science, mathematics, and the physical and life sciences are welcome. Materials for the webinar are drawn from the National Science Digital Library (nsdl.oercommons.org), in particular resources from XSEDE as well as Shodor’s extensive Interactivate collection of lessons, discussions, activities, and supporting materials. The first two hours of the webinar will consist of presentation and activities, and the third hour will be reserved for questions and further discussion. × 04 May 2021 Event XSEDE HPC Workshop: MPI (Day 1) (5/4) Time: May 4, 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop is intended to give C and Fortran programmers a hands-on introduction to MPI programming. Both days are packed with useful information and lab exercises. Attendees will leave with a working knowledge of how to write scalable codes using MPI – the standard programming tool of scalable parallel computing. × 30 Apr 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing a Good Data Management Plan (4/30) Time: April 30, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you looking for guidance to write a good data management plan to accompany your successful grant application? In this interactive workshop, participants will use tools such as a checklist, template, and example language to compose the main points of a grant worthy data management plan appropriate for most funders. × 30 Apr 2021 Event UC Center for Public Engagement with Science Workshop - Day 1 - Science Communication | K-12 Science Education (4/30) Time: April 30, 11:30 AM - 5:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Day 1: Friday, April 30 - Science Communication | K-12 Science Education 11:30 – 12:30 pm EDT - Science Communication Keynotes Q&A Keynote speakers will answer pre-submitted and live questions about their pre-recorded talks. 12:45 – 2:00 pm EDT - Science Communication Panel Discussion Nancy Averett (Freelance Science Writer) John Lynch (Professor, Communications Department, University of Cincinnati) Dean Regas (Outreach Astronomer, Cincinnati Observatory) 2:15 – 2:45 pm EDT - [INTERACTIVE] - Networking Groups Interested participants will be assigned to small groups for an opportunity to network in small groups with other workshop attendees. 3:00 – 4:00 pm EDT - K-12 Keynotes Q&A Keynote speakers will answer pre-submitted and live questions about their pre-recorded talks. 4:15 – 5:30 pm EDT - [INTERACTIVE] - K-12 Activity Participants will work in small groups to discuss how to incorporate scientific methods and philosophy of science into classroom activities that address the Next Generation Science Standards. This session will be highly interactive with small breakout groups. × 26 Apr 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Techniques to Make Your Proposal Competitive (4/26) Time: April 26, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop will present the competitive intelligence framework and demonstrate how faculty can use this framework to improve their proposals. There are five types of analyses regularly performed in academia; external profiles, capacity analysis, landscape analysis, program analysis, and sponsor analysis. Each will be discussed along with which analyses can turn your proposal into a competitive proposal. There are three key takeaways; how to give your proposal a competitive edge, how to learn about your competition, and how to align your proposal to fit sponsor and program goals. × 22 Apr 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing your Career Grant in 12-weeks - Kickoff 2 (4/22) Time: April 22, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type. Research Office: Research Development Description for this event is forthcoming. × 21 Apr 2021 Event Midwest US Biodesign Hub Launch (4/21) Time: April 21, 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Biodesign is finding its way into education institutions all over the world. It bridges art, design, and biotech to reimagine a more sustainable and thoughtful future. Biodesign Challenge (BDC), the University of Cincinnati, and the University of Toledo are hosting an online symposium to bring together the biodesign community across the Midwestern United States. The event will kickoff a regional Hub for biodesign practitioners, research institutions, and students to share resources, collaborate on projects, and develop new teaching practices. Experts from across the Midwest will speak about their work and ambitions for biodesign. BDC alumni will offer short talks about their projects and design processes. The event will feature a keynote talk by Fulbright award-winning and NSF-funded scholar, writer, social scientist, and design researcher Laura Forlano. × 19 Apr 2021 Event New insights into skin health and disease: Lessons learned from the MPAACH cohort (4/19) Time: April 19, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Webex (link following registration) Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us and Dr. Khurana (Neeru) Hershey of Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center to learn about some of the exciting skin research that is occurring! × 19 Apr 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing your Career Grant in 12-weeks - Kickoff 1 (4/19) Time: April 19, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Description for this event is forthcoming. × 14 Apr 2021 Event R Data Visualization Workshop (4/14) Time: April 14, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Prerequisites: -R and R studio installed Goals: -Brief introduction R -Explore R and R studio environment -Basic functions of R -R for basic calculation -R objects and assignments -Understanding functions and getting help in R -Download and install packages -Install and overview of the ggplot2 package -Import data -Loading, viewing and exploring data -Data preprocessing -Visualize data and explore ggplot package (introduction, syntax and examples: using categorical data, using numerical data) -Telling a story with visualization -Summarize important details about “ggplot” themes and layouts -Explore other visualizations -Review how to utilize visualizations to their maximum potential -Export data -Saving plots Expectations: This is only an introduction to the R and R studio environment. Learning a new programming language, like a spoken language, takes years of practice, so it will not be possible to cover everything but many common features that most of you will use most of the time will be highlighted. × 12 Apr 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Early Career Grant Writing Workshop Q&A (4/12) Time: April 12, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Attendees of the Early Career Grant Writing Workshop Research Office: Research Development Follow-up Q&A session with Lucy Deckard × 09 Apr 2021 Event Research Development and Support Series: SBIR Funding Insights and Experiences (4/9) Time: April 9, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, staff, community and industry partners interested in learning about how to successfully submit SBIR proposals. Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Listen and learn from faculty at UC who have received SBIR funding. They will be sharing their strategies for developing a successful proposal based on their innovation, impact and business plan. Steve Hardek of Zoom Essence will share his experience and insights as both a recipient of numerous SBIR awards as well as being a reviewer for NSF SBIRs. Don’t miss this opportunity to learn about SBIRs where the success rate for funding is anywhere from 20-30%! × 05 Apr 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing the One Pager - The Shortest Path to Success (4/5) Time: April 5, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. × 02 Apr 2021 Event Ethics: The Secret to Effective Leadership? Speaker: Andrew Cullison, Ph.D. (4/2) Time: April 2, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presented by the UC Ethics Center In this talk, I argue that the secret to effective leadership rests in being good at a set of skills called "moral reasoning skills". In the first part, I highlight a specific set of skills that are the ideal learning outcomes that come from the study of ethics. I call these skills "moral reasoning skills". In the second part, I discuss several widely cited models of effective leadership and offer a unifying account of these apparently disparate theories. I show that many of the traits these theories identify as the secret to effective leadership either are one of these moral reasoning skills or could not be had without being good at one of these moral reasoning skills. In the third part, I provide an analysis of the empirical literature exploring the connections between moral reasoning and effective leadership which provides further confirmation that ethics really might be the secret ingredient to effective leadership. × 01 Apr 2021 Event Surveillance of Students : An Ethical Travesty or Necessity? Speaker: Bryan Warnick, Ph.D. (4/1) Time: April 1, 7:30 PM - 8:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presented by the UC Ethics Center In this talk, I respond to the increasing use of surveillance cameras in public schools by examining the ethical questions raised by their use. I explore the extent of a student’s right to privacy in schools, stipulate how video surveillance is similar to and different from commonly accepted in-person surveillance practices, and discuss the possible impact of surveillance technology on educational environments. In response to the ethical concerns I raise, I offer five suggestions for how schools can use video surveillance technology in more ethically sensitive ways. × 01 Apr 2021 Event Hutton Ethics Lecture - Citizen Science and Human Genomic Research: Ethical and Social Implications (4/1) Time: April 1, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Speaker: Eric Juengst, Ph.D. Eric T. Juengst, PhD serves as the Director of the UNC Center for Bioethics and as Professor in the Departments of Social Medicine and Genetics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. His lecture “Citizen Science and Human Genomic Research: Ethical and Social Implications” aims to define "citizen science", familiarize the audience with a variety of current approaches to involving the public in human genome research and the projects that exemplify them, like the U.S. national “All of Us” Initiative, and to appreciate the personal privacy risks of genomic research participation and approaches to addressing them. × 01 Apr 2021 Event Ethics Bowl Champions: UC’S Inaugural Team Takes Home APPE Intercollegiate Title (4/1) Time: April 1, 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Moderator: Vanessa Carbonell Featuring Ethics Bowl Team Members and Coach (Daniel Mattox) Learn about UC’s Inaugural Ethics Bowl team which recently competed and won the national title in the Association for Practical and Professional Ethics (APPE) Intercollegiate Ethics Bowl. Ethics Bowl team members, the coach, and their mentor will explain what an ethics bowl is and how they prepared and competed against schools across the country. Interested in joining the team for next year? Learn how you can get involved! × 31 Mar 2021 Event IQ E-Pitch Awards Ceremony (3/31) Time: March 31, 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The IQE-Pitch Competition is a valuable opportunity to express innovative, and new ideas to a panel of judges from the local and regional start-up community. IQE-Pitch is a campus-wide event, open to all UC students for a chance to win a share of up to $20,000 in awards. The 2021 competition is completely virtual and video submissions were due March 19th. We look forward to awarding the winners of this year’s competition at the 2021 Award Ceremony via zoom on March 31st × 31 Mar 2021 Event Trusted Democracy in the Digital Age (3/31) Time: March 31, 2:30 PM - 3:50 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Featured speakers: ﻿ Katie Harbath– Director of Public Policy and Global Elections - Facebook Trey Grayson– Former Secretary of State – Kentucky & Director - CivicPoint Richard Harknett– Professor of Political Science and Department Head, Digital Futures Cyber Security Lab Leader – University of Cincinnati Anna Palmer - Founder, Punch Bowl News Moderator: Jai Chabria– Mercury – Former Senior Advisor to Ohio Governor John Kasich × 31 Mar 2021 Event Introduction to Digital Futures (3/31) Time: March 31, 1:00 PM - 2:20 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us for a conversation about Digital Futures - the outstanding new building under construction, the fantastic work being done by the lab leaders and our unique vision for the future of research. Featuring: Dr. Patrick Limbach, Vice President for Research Jennifer Krivickas, Associate Vice President for Research John Seibert, Associate Vice President, Planning Design & Construction Zach Zettler, Principal, GBBN × 31 Mar 2021 Event Ethics in AI: A Question of Fairness - Speaker: Lauren Rhue, Ph.D. (3/31) Time: March 31, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presented by The UC Ethics Center Bias can emerge from artificial intelligence / machine learning (AI/ML) from many reasons (e.g., AI/ML learns historical bias, AI/ML learns from incomplete datasets). As organizations across a variety of new industries and areas implement AI/ML, it poses an ethical challenge. Organizations need to balance the ethical concerns of AI/ML fairness and anti-bias with the business benefits of AI/ML such as increased accuracy and profits. This presentation discusses evidence of AI bias in multiple contexts, some of the challenges in identifying AI bias, and some of the legal and societal implications of AI bias. Furthermore, I would discuss how algorithms exist within a decision-making framework and can/cannot induce bias in people. × 31 Mar 2021 Event Connecting Technology and Place in Cities of the Future (3/31) Time: March 31, 11:30 AM - 12:50 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Flashpoint Series #2 - Presented by the Digital Futures Democracy and Culture Institute The University of Cincinnati Office of Research recently launched a series of conversations of consequence that take democracy and culture to the next level. Alongside UC thought leaders, our forums will feature speakers from the community, the private sector, and government. People like you, who are interested in solving problems of local, national and global significance, should attend. Our next forum will focus on placemaking and how UC’s new Digital Futures research facility, which will be the place where technology, community, government and the private sector convene and collaborate for the betterment of society. Featured speakers: Jennifer Vey– Senior Fellow - Metropolitan Policy Program & Director - Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Center for Transformative Placemaking, Brookings Institution Russell Hairston– President and Executive Director – Avondale Development Corporation Andrew Deye– Vice President, Strategy – JobsOhio Jess Kropczynski–University of Cincinnati – Digital Futures Smart Synergies Lab Leader – Community Change Collaborative Smart & Connected Fellow Moderator: Jai Chabria– Mercury – Former Senior Advisor to Ohio Governor John Kasich × 31 Mar 2021 Event Advanced Air Mobility - Jobs and Economic Impact in Ohio (3/31) Time: March 31, 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Flashpoint Series #4 - Presented by the Digital Futures Democracy and Culture Institute The future of advanced air mobility is here. Delivery drones, air taxis, eVTOLs – these platforms will play an important role in the 21st century and Ohio is uniquely positioned to lead the way through academic collaboration with industry. Join the Office of Research Digital Futures Initiative during Research and Innovation Week 2021 as we discuss how this new industry will lead to jobs, positive economic impact and advances in technology. × 31 Mar 2021 Event Emerging Technologies in Literacy: How EdTech is Helping our Children Learn to Read (3/31) Time: March 31, 8:30 AM - 9:50 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Flashpoint Series #1 - Presented by the Digital Futures Democracy and Culture Institute As the adage goes, children learn to read so they can read to learn. Our panel of researchers, industry leaders, and policy makers will explore how parents and teachers can help stimulate their young learners during this period of virtual learning spurred by the coronavirus pandemic. They will also discuss the future of EdTech as it relates to literacy in the U.S. education system. Panelists: Renee Seward – Founder of See Word Design, Associate Professor of Communication Design in the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning, and Digital Futures Lab Leader Mike Tholfsen – Principal Group Product Manager at Microsoft Education. Responsible for Microsoft's inclusive classroom product strategy, focusing on empowering students of all abilities. Kent Kanipe – Vice President, Engineering – Learning A-Z, an education technology company dedicated to expanding literacy through thoughtfully designed resources Melissa Weber-Mayrer – Director of the Office of Approaches to Teaching and Professional Learning, Ohio Department of Education Moderator:﻿ Jai Chabria – Former Senior Advisor to Ohio Governor John Kasich and current Managing Director at Mercury, a Global Strategy Firm × 30 Mar 2021 Event Digital Community Engagement: Partnering Communities with the Academy (3/30) Time: March 30, 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presented by UC Press, UC Office of Research & The Mercantile Library The University of Cincinnati Press open access publication edited by Rebecca S. Wingo, Jason A. Heppler, and Paul Schadewald, Digital Community Engagement: Partnering Communities with the Academy has won 2021 Best New Book of the Year from the National Council on Public History. Each year, the Council selects one book in the area of public history theory, study or practice. We invite you to join the editors and one of their community collaborators, Mr. Marvin Roger Anderson, for a discussion about community engagement with academia, ethical engagement with digital research and technology and the future of open-access publishing. The conversation will be moderated by Dr. Crystal Moten, Curator at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History and we will have time for a Q&A – please submit questions in advance to research@uc.edu. Digital Community Engagement: Partnering Communities with the Academy is available for free via open access on Manifold, click here to check it out! × 30 Mar 2021 Event Equitable Cities: Panel, Pitch, and Possibilities (3/30) Time: March 30, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Moderated by Sean Kelly, Director of Talent Pipeline Initiative at STEM Career Development Partnership This session centers on the UC Community Change Collaborative's request for community-engaged research proposals focused on equitable cities. Community leaders will share perspectives on what considerable assets and resources can be tapped within the community to promote an equitable Cincinnati. This will be followed by a discussion with UC faculty about how faculty-community partnerships can be leveraged to address community-prioritized areas. × 30 Mar 2021 Event See Something, Say Something? The Ethical Dilemmas of Whistleblowing - Speaker: Ross Wright, JD (3/30) Time: March 30, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presented by the UC Ethics Center The challenge that organizations and individuals face is not adherence to platitudes and policies, but the operationalization of ethics and compliance in the real world. Using real world examples we will discuss the ethical challenges and consequences of speaking up. × 30 Mar 2021 Event Community Impact Through the Nonprofit Leadership Initiative (3/30) Time: March 30, 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Moderated by Michael Jones, Executive Director of the Kautz-Uible Economics Institute The University of Cincinnati’s Urban Futures Pathway, the Kautz-Uible Economics Institute, and the Leadership Council for Nonprofits partnered together this past year to provide training on nonprofit board governance to fifteen UC faculty and staff. Individuals who participate in the initiative bring their expertise and time to a local nonprofit organization. In this session, the panelists will discuss how and why they decided to impact the Cincinnati community through their nonprofit board service. × 29 Mar 2021 Event Research and Innovation Week 2021 Kickoff (3/29) Time: March 29, 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Please join us for the Research & Innovation Week 2021 Kickoff! We will be announcing the launch of Research2030, UC's 10-year strategic plan to be recognized as a Top 25 Public Research University. We will deliver an overview of Research2030, President Pinto, Provost Nelson and VPR Limbach will be available for Q&A, and there will be a keynote address delivered by Drew Boyd. × 29 Mar 2021 Event Professional Ethics and the Responsible Conduct of Research - Speaker: Michael C. Loui, Ph.D. (3/29) Time: March 29, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presented by The UC Ethics Center I will identify similarities between the responsible conduct of research (RCR) and the ethics of a profession such as engineering. Just as codes of professional ethics define the standards for trustworthiness in professional practice, so too do the obligations of RCR set the standards for the trustworthiness of academic research. I will show short video vignettes to illustrate several RCR issues that occur in research activities across academic disciplines, such as plagiarism, mentoring, peer review, and data management. × 29 Mar 2021 Event Collaborative Research Advancement Program – PILOTS Finalist Pitch Day (3/29) Time: March 29, 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Consistent with Office of Research goals to spur interdisciplinary research and establish new partnerships within and beyond the institution, the Collaborative Research Advancement program is meant to encourage both internal and external collaboration; enable new teams and/or new lines of research; and stimulate research that embraces intellectual diversity and addresses issues of increasing societal significance. Pitch day features finalists delivering a 10-minute presentation and Q&A to discuss their proposed research activities. × 29 Mar 2021 Event Research & Innovation Week 2021 (3/29 - 4/2) Time: March 29, 12:00 AM - April 2, 12:00 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students and General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research R&I Week 2020 is a week-long celebration of disruptive ideas, applied solutions and the real-world impacts UC research, scholarship, and creative activities have on Cincinnati, the region, and beyond. × 24 Mar 2021 Event University Research Council (URC) Faculty Research Pivot Awards Informational Session (3/24) Time: March 24, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom (link upon registration) Target Audience: Faculty interested in University Research Council (URC) Faculty Research Pivot Awards Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Office of Research is pleased to announce the 2021 RFP for the inaugural URC Faculty Research Pivot Awards Program. Building upon the rich legacy of the University Research Council (URC), UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding program, the URC Faculty Research Pivot Awards are targeted to mid-career and beyond faculty who are proposing transformative new ideas and directions for their research, scholarship and creative activities. This program is for individual faculty and may be discipline-focused or interdisciplinary in nature. All areas of research, scholarship and creative activities across UC are eligible. This program will follow a two-stage application/evaluation process. The first stage involves submission of a 3-page concept paper. Up to 10 finalists will then be invited to submit a full proposal and agree to a 10-minute presentation/Q&A to discuss their proposed activities. Awards: All awards will be for $15,000 and for a period of 18 months. Awards are expected to support the proposed activities and can include course relief, as necessary. Budgets will only be required from awardees and will be created in collaboration with the Office of Research. Up to five awards will be made in the first year of this program. × 24 Mar 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Early Career Grant Writing Workshop (3/24) Time: March 24, 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Early career faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies will be here for a basic grant writing workshop focused on early career and/or young investigator grants and is open to all faculty. This workshop is highly interactive and is targeted toward faculty who are ready to, or are considering applying, for early career or young investigator grants within the next few years. The workshop includes a series of discussions about the workshop topics along with some exercises and examples. Materials: Additional materials and resources will be provided to each participant. These will include additional background materials, resources, and example sections of successful proposals. × 19 Mar 2021 Event The Future of Aeronautics: Connecting UC, NASA, and Industry in Ohio (3/19) Time: March 19, 10:00 AM - 4:30 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff, Students, and General Public Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research A virtual meeting with NASA Glenn Research Center and the University of Cincinnati to explore collaborations and opportunities in support of NASA’s goals in evolving aeronautics areas. × 16 Mar 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Confessions of a Grant Reviewer (3/16) Time: March 16, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Regardless of the questions you have had upon receiving your proposal reviews or if you are getting ready to submit your first proposal/grant and are planning ahead, this is the session for you. We will explore different approaches that reviewers take when reviewing and give some tips on how to strategically plan to get the reviewers interest and anticipate their reaction. × 15 Feb 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Building Your Team - Team Science (2/15) Time: February 15, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Research Development Forming a research team and looking for collaborators? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from co-investigators and collaborators to graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 10 Feb 2021 Event Data & Computational Science Workshop: ESRI's StoryMaps (2/10) Time: February 10, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research ESRI’s StoryMap is an online story telling platform that combines images, text and maps into an animated narrative that can be used to convey in-depth research topics for teaching in an accessible manner. × 09 Feb 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Talking to Your Program Officer (2/9) Time: February 9, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Are you ready to have a conversation with a federal agency program officer but don’t know how to start? Are you interested in learning about how a study section or review panel works? Having these conversations and understandings are a key step to gaining valuable insight into the funding potential of your ideas. In this interactive session, you’ll learn from faculty who are or have recently worked at major federal agencies as they share the do’s and don’ts of making contact, meeting logistics and follow-up. Plus, you’ll hear their tips on effective ways to talk about your research. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 05 Feb 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (2/5) Time: February 5, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, OoR staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 29 Jan 2021 Event Data & Computational Science Workshop: Intro to Jetstream & Hands on Tutorial (1/29) Time: January 29, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Learn how to use Jetstream, an NSF-funded, user-friendly cloud environment designed to give researchers and students access to computing and data analysis resources on demand – from your tablet, laptop or desktop. × 27 Jan 2021 Event Impact of Advanced Air Mobility for Emergency Management (1/27) Time: January 27, 10:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and interested parties Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Advanced Air Mobility (AAM) is a new and rapidly developing field that aims for safe and efficient aviation transportation systems that use highly automated aircraft to transport passengers or cargo. There is a natural intersection between AAM and Emergency Response that would benefit from further exploration. Join us for this two-day event featuring thought leaders from the University of Cincinnati and experts in the fields of Advanced Air Mobility and Emergency Management from the public and private sectors. 01/27/2021 - Day 2 All Times EST Theme: Embracing a Future for EM 10:00am - Welcome and Introductions Kelly Cohen - University of Cincinnati 10:15am - Academic Perspectives on AAM and EM Bryan Brown - University of Cincinnati Chris Danek - Catholic University of America 11:15am - Technical Challenges for AAM Panel Basil Yap - Hovecon Consulting Joey Mercer - NASA Fred Judson - Ohio Department of Transportation Moderator: Tom Davis - Crown Consulting 12:15pm - Break 12:45pm - Wildfire Response Presentation Scott McTavish - Wingtra 1:15pm - Operational Use of UAVs Ed Massimo - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 1:50pm - Operations and EM Integration Panel Josh Marx - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Michael Baker - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Paige Caldwell - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Brooke Hubbard - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Moderator: John Stock - USGS 2:50pm - Closing Remarks × 26 Jan 2021 Event Impact of Advanced Air Mobility for Emergency Management (1/26) Time: January 26, 10:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and interested parties Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Advanced Air Mobility (AAM) is a new and rapidly developing field that aims for safe and efficient aviation transportation systems that use highly automated aircraft to transport passengers or cargo. There is a natural intersection between AAM and Emergency Response that would benefit from further exploration. Join us for this two-day event featuring thought leaders from the University of Cincinnati and experts in the fields of Advanced Air Mobility and Emergency Management from the public and private sectors. 01/26/2021 - Day 1 All Times EST Theme: Current & Enabling Aspect of UAVs for EM 10:00am - Welcome and Introductions Scott Petersen - University of Cincinnati Jenny Laird - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 10:15am - Keynote - Jason Kirkpatrick, Aviation Program Manager, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 11:30am - Break 12:00pm - Presentations Intro to Advanced Air Mobility Intro to UC's AI Institute Intro to ERDC 1:50pm - UAS Training/Certification Panel Cpt Kirk McKinzie - University of Cincinnati Chief Amos Johnson - Woodlawn Fire Department Brad McCullough - Hinds Community College Jason Kirkpatrick - US Army Corps of Engineers Moderator: Bryan Brown - University of Cincinnati 2:50pm - Closing Remarks × 26 Jan 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: How to Find Funding Opportunities (1/26) Time: January 26, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you is important. In this session, you will learn from experts where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders’ interests, missions and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. Feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 22 Jan 2021 Event Data & Computational Science Workshop: Linux 101 (1/22) Time: January 22, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Faculty, Staff and Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop will provide a good working knowledge of Linux and learn how to navigate through major Linux distributions, system configurations and graphical interface of Linux, basic command line operations, common applications of Linux, and more. × 21 Jan 2021 Event Research Development & Support Series: Office of Research - Expert Round Table (1/21) Time: January 21, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is an opportunity to learn about important processes and resources from top institutional research leaders who can help you make the most of your research efforts at UC and do it fast! This workshop will feature experts sharing their tips and processes to help people more easily navigate their research endeavors here at the University of Cincinnati. × 15 Jan 2021 Event Trusted Democracy in the Digital Age (1/15) Time: January 15, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Leading up to our nation’s 59th presidential inauguration, our panel will discuss democracy, trust in institutions, and the role of information in the digital age. Framed by last November’s historic election, our panelists will help us understand the types of messaging that bolster and undermine confidence in electoral integrity, and how delegitimization campaigns can and should be addressed now and in the future. Please submit any questions in advance to research@uc.edu. The Digital Futures initiative will be housed in UC’s new, 180,000 square foot research facility being constructed in the Cincinnati Innovation District. UC’s Digital Futures building is where research, community, government and the private sector will convene and collaborate for the betterment of society. Featuring: Katie Harbath - Director of Public Policy and Global Elections, Facebook. Trey Greyson – Principal, Frost Brown Todd Attorneys. Former Secretary of State, Kentucky. Former Director-Institute of Politics, Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Richard Harknett – Professor & Chair of Political Science, UC. Chair, Center for Cyber Strategy and Policy, UC. Lab Leader, Secure Digital Futures, UC. Anna Palmer – Founder and CEO of Punchbowl News. Moderator - Jai Chabria – Chief Strategist to Former Ohio Governor, John Kasich. Director, Mercury Columbus. × 05 Jan 2021 Event UC Research Conversations: NIH FIRST (1/5) Time: January 5, 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All administrators, faculty, and research staff interested in the NIH FIRST Program Research Office: Research Development The NIH just released a new funding opportunity RFA-RM-20-022 (clinical trials optional) targeted at enhancing and sustaining cultures of inclusive excellence in the biomedical research community called the NIH Faculty Institutional Recruitment for Sustainable Transformation (FIRST) Program: FIRST Cohort. This opportunity has been added in our limited submission portal. As indicated in the full FOA, “The FIRST program goals are to: (1) foster sustainable institutional culture change; (2) promote institutional inclusive excellence by hiring a diverse cohort of new faculty; and (3) support faculty development, mentoring, sponsorship, and promotion.” Through this U54 mechanism, awardee institutions can obtain up to $10.3 million in direct cost over 5 years to support recruitment of a cohort of underrepresented faculty members. “The new faculty hires comprising a FIRST Cohort are expected to be clusters of scientists (no fewer than three scientists per cluster) within several scientific areas. For example, an institutional cohort might be comprised of multiple smaller clusters of scientists within various scientific disciplines, such as neuroscience, cardiovascular disease, cancer, minority health, health disparities, community-based participatory research, behavioral, social, population science, or other research areas within the NIH mission.” Since this is a limited submission application (one (1) application per institution) and the timelines for the application are very short – LOI (optional) due January 30, 2021 and full application due March 1, 2021. Interested investigators should submit interest through the limited submission portal no later than Monday January 4, 2021 at the close of business. As we anticipate more interest than spots available, it is encouraged that interested parties provide a 1-page outline with bullet points highlighting how their proposed cluster cohort (minimum of 3 faculty) would support the goals of the FIRST program along with their recruitment strategy at the college level. Please submit your 1-page letter of interest to ucreslimsub@ucmail.uc.edu, by the close of business January 4, 2021. We will then have an open discussion with all interested parties Tuesday January 5, 2021 from 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm to determine if we have some overlap in interest areas and to evaluate opportunities for cross campus synergies. × 04 Jan 2021 Event New Faculty Orientation - January 2021 (1/4) Time: January 4, 8:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New Faculty Research Office: Research Development We are excited to have you as a part of our Bearcat Family! This year, we are offering New Faculty Orientation virtually. A combination of synchronous sessions, videos, and resources are organized into a schedule on January 4th. × 17 Dec 2020 Event Connecting Technology and Place in Cities of the Future (12/17) Time: December 17, 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All Attendees Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research CONNECTING TECHNOLOGY AND PLACE IN CITIES OF THE FUTURE The University of Cincinnati’s new Digital Futures building is a state-of-the-art research facility that will be situated in Cincinnati’s emergent Innovation District. The Cincinnati Innovation District has the potential to act as a key public space for the surrounding neighborhood, and Digital Futures will be well-positioned to help communities tackle local challenges and improve city services. Impactful, community-engaged research projects could include the co-design of technology-forward pubic programming to bridge the digital divide, increase residents’ access to quality education, employment, and healthcare to ensure our neighbors' quality of life improves. Today, our expert panel will discuss the Cincinnati community, placemaking, and together, imagine ways that Digital Futures can be a place where technology and community intersect for the betterment of society. × 11 Dec 2020 Event UC Research Conversations: Picture a Scientist and Panel Discussion (12/11) Time: December 11, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Picture a Scientist, an official selection of the 2020 Tribeca Film Festival, is a feature‐length documentary film chronicling the groundswell of researchers who are writing a new chapter for women scientists. A biologist, a chemist, and a geologist lead viewers on a journey deep into their own experiences in the sciences, overcoming brutal harassment, institutional discrimination, and years of subtle slights to revolutionize the culture of science. From cramped laboratories to spectacular field stations, we also encounter scientific luminaries who provide new perspectives on how to make science itself more diverse, equitable, and open to all. Through this exclusive arrangement, you can stream the film in the comfort of your own home any time during the screening period, which runs December 9‐11. Then, on December 11 at 2:00 p.m., join us for a live panel discussion on the history, present-day challenges, and future opportunities surrounding Title IX in the U.S. academic research enterprise. × 11 Dec 2020 Event Collaborative Research Advancement Program - Pilots Information Session (12/11) Time: December 11, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Any faculty interested in the Collaborative Research Advancement - Pilots program Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Associate Vice President for Research, Jennifer Krivickas, will be hosting a webinar to discuss the opportunity, RFA details (e.g., application materials, white paper/concept paper components and review criteria) and answering applicant questions on December 11, 2020 at 12:00 pm (noon). Interested applicants to this program are encouraged, but not required, to attend this webinar. × 10 Dec 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Grant Writing Workshop - Large Center Grants (12/10) Time: December 10, 1:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: All research teams considering large / multidisciplinary projects Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This ½-day online workshop is designed for faculty who have been successful in obtaining funding for single-PI and small team projects and are considering applying for larger grants to support larger and multidisciplinary team projects. The following topics will be covered: · How are team grant proposals different from other proposals? · Assembling your team · Roles of team members · Developing a research vision · Strategic planning · Synergy: What is it and how do you get it? · Tackling the logistics of proposal production · Writing Key Proposal Sections · Characteristics of Successful Narratives · Red Teaming and writing for Reviewers Materials: Additional materials and resources will be provided to each participant for download via a link. A link to a recording of the webinar will also be provided for use by the university faculty for a period of 6 months after the webinar date. × 09 Dec 2020 Event Research 2030: Concepts in Dimensions (12/9) Time: December 9, 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Anyone Interested in using Dimensions Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This webinar is presented and hosted by Dimensions (click for more info) and is part of a new series of webinars offered by the Office of Research. This webinar is offered at three different times to accommodate calendar differences. These are not Research Development and Support Series events. Dimensions is conducting a customer-only webinar on December 9, 2020 to give an overview of concepts in Dimensions - how they work and how to make use of them, including: The difference between keywords and concepts Searching with concepts Concepts in researcher profiles Extracting concepts from a set of publications What you can do with concept relevance and frequency scores Please join us for a brief presentation followed by plenty of Q&A time dedicated to customer questions - they need not be related to the topic! × 09 Dec 2020 Event Research 2030: Concepts in Dimensions (12/9) Time: December 9, 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Anyone Interested in using Dimensions Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This webinar is presented and hosted by Dimensions (click for more info) and is part of a new series of webinars offered by the Office of Research. This webinar is offered at three different times to accommodate calendar differences. These are not Research Development and Support Series events. Dimensions is conducting a customer-only webinar on December 9, 2020 to give an overview of concepts in Dimensions - how they work and how to make use of them, including: The difference between keywords and concepts Searching with concepts Concepts in researcher profiles Extracting concepts from a set of publications What you can do with concept relevance and frequency scores Please join us for a brief presentation followed by plenty of Q&A time dedicated to customer questions - they need not be related to the topic! × 09 Dec 2020 Event Research 2030: Concepts in Dimensions (12/9) Time: December 9, 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Anyone Interested in using Dimensions Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This webinar is presented and hosted by Dimensions (click for more info) and is part of a new series of webinars offered by the Office of Research. This webinar is offered at three different times to accommodate calendar differences. These are not Research Development and Support Series events. Dimensions is conducting a customer-only webinar on December 9, 2020 to give an overview of concepts in Dimensions - how they work and how to make use of them, including: The difference between keywords and concepts Searching with concepts Concepts in researcher profiles Extracting concepts from a set of publications What you can do with concept relevance and frequency scores Please join us for a brief presentation followed by plenty of Q&A time dedicated to customer questions - they need not be related to the topic! × 07 Dec 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: AtKisson Training Group NIH Grant Writing Seminar (12/07 & 12/08) (12/7) Time: December 7, 1:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Zoom - details to follow Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be broken up over two (2) half-day afternoon sessions (Monday December 7 and Tuesday December 8). The workshop is based on a combined lecture, reading and discussion approach, focusing on the key organizational principles for writing competitive grant proposals. How does the planning process impact the final proposal? What key information must be on the first page? How do you organize the discussion of the approach so that your plan is crystal clear to your reviewer? Many of the answers to these questions are common across funders, and the program provides both conceptual approaches and concrete methods for constructing competitive proposals. The approach is based on 19 years of grant writing and training experience across multiple agencies and disciplines. The presenter, M. S. (Peg) AtKisson founded the proposal and research development office at Tufts University starting as a contract grant writer in 2001. In 8 years she and her team contributed to $140,000,000 in funded proposals from NSF, NIH, USDA, USAID, Keck Foundation, and others. After working as a trainer for a grant writing consulting firm, Dr. AtKisson founded AtKisson Training Group (ATG) to expand training beyond the proposal document and into the overall planning for funding and academic success. Dr. AtKisson is a highly acclaimed public speaker with a track record of helping faculty improve their competitiveness for funding. For a $35 registration fee, participants receive the presentation handouts and the Handbook for Planning and Writing Successful Proposals. The Handbook is used during the day and serves as a resource for proposal writing. × 07 Dec 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: AtKisson Training Group Arts and Humanities Grant Writing Seminar (12/07 & 12/08) (12/7) Time: December 7, 8:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Zoom - details to follow Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Graduate Students, Staff Research Office: Research Development This workshop will be broken up over two (2) half-day morning sessions (Monday December 7 and Tuesday December 8). The workshop is based on a combined presentation, hands-on reading and discussion approach, focusing on the rhetorical elements and information flow that underlie compelling grant proposals. How does the planning process impact the final proposal? What key information must be on the first page? How do you organize the discussion of the approach so that your plan is crystal clear to your reviewer? Many of the answers to these questions are common across funders, and the program provides both conceptual approaches and concrete methods for constructing competitive proposals. The day is facilitated by two presenters with extensive experience in successful grant applications to fund arts and humanities projects use and provide training in skills that can be used across funders. Mary Hensel, MBA and Sarah James, MA, from ATG will be facilitating this workshop and collectively have over 45 years experience. Each has worked in a variety of roles and most every level of the fundraising / sponsored research ladder. For a $35 registration fee, participants receive the presentation handouts and the Handbook for Planning and Writing Successful Proposals. The Handbook is used during the day and serves as a resource for proposal writing. × 03 Dec 2020 Event Major Proposal Support Program - Informational Session (12/3) Time: December 3, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Faculty interested in the Major Proposal Support Program Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research As part of UC’s Research2030 “Invest to Advance” strategic plan, we seek to support and enhance the competitiveness of our research enterprise for major funding opportunities. As a result, the Office of the Vice President for Research is pleased to announce the 2020-2021 RFA for the inaugural Major Proposal Support Program, which will provide internal and external expert support for UC faculty who are targeting major, multi-year, competitive and prestigious funding opportunities.* Awardees will receive up to two waves of pre-submission review and editing of full proposals. Services include project management; expert coaching on program officer outreach and funder expectations; and proposal support in the form of hands-on review and revision services. Tenured- and tenure-track faculty (with at least 80% FTE) are eligible to apply. Awardees will be encouraged to begin drafting proposals upon receiving and accepting the award, however, this program is targeting external funding opportunity submission dates that fall within the window of August 15, 2021 through February 1, 2022. The Office of Research intends to re-release this RFA again in the spring to target major funding opportunities in the time period of February 1, 2022 through August 15, 2022, and then repeat this program every 6 months thereafter. *The Office of Research appreciates the fact that what is considered a ‘major, highly competitive’ opportunity varies from field to field. Our aim is to increase competitiveness of UC faculty for significant external funding across all STEMM and AHSS disciplines. Total Awardees: Depending on the number and quality of applications received, up to 6 applications will be selected for proposal development support. RFP Released: December 1, 2020. × 01 Dec 2020 Event Research 2030: Money, money, money (for research!) – inform your funding strategies using Dimensions data (12/1) Time: December 1, 10:00 AM - 10:45 AM Location: Virtual Target Audience: Researchers Seeking Funding Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This webinar is presented and hosted by Dimensions (click for more info) and is part of a new series of webinars offered by the Office of Research. These are not Research Development and Support Series events. In this webinar, we’ll show you how to leverage Dimensions grant and patent data to help: Assess funding trends in varying fields, disciplines and topics Explore potential funders beyond “the usual suspects” Strengthen grant applications by examining successful awards Identify collaborators to help broaden potential sources of funding Surface corporate entities suitable for partnership, collaboration and investment Dimensions contains awarded grant data from over 500 funders around the globe, amounting to over 1.7 trillion USD in funding. With over 54 million patent records, that include geo-tagged assignees, finding local partners is now easier than ever. × 16 Nov 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Department of Defense (DOD) - Presented by Lewis Burke Associates LLC (11/16) Time: November 16, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Lewis-Burke Associates LLC will provide a “DOD 101” seminar to introduce the Department of Defense (DOD) and National Security related research and development opportunities. The seminar will be an overview of how the DOD is organized, funds science and technology including identification of funding agencies, programs, partnerships, solicitation interpretation, and engagement strategies. Come learn the ins and outs of how to successfully compete for DOD funding for your research. × 10 Nov 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Advanced Budgeting (11/10) Time: November 10, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, researchers, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop is an expansion on the principles discussed in our basic budgeting workshop. We will go into more detail about some of the trickier elements of budgeting, such as distinguishing between subcontractors and consultants, defining capital equipment, determining the MTDC base, student aid vs. student wages, and other items. We encourage attendees to bring their own questions and cases from budgets they are working or have worked on, and we can provide specific guidance as needed. Feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 05 Nov 2020 Event University Research Council (URC) Faculty Scholars Award - Informational Session (11/5) Time: November 5, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty interested in the new URC Faculty Scholars Award Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Building upon the rich legacy of the URC, UC’s oldest and most prestigious internal funding program, the URC Faculty Scholars Research Awards are meant to recognize promising UC junior faculty who are proposing transformative ideas that will shape our future. This program will follow a two-stage application/evaluation process. The first stage involves submission of a 3-page concept paper. Up to five finalists in each area will then be invited to submit a full proposal and agree to a 10-minute presentation/Q&A to discuss their proposed activities. This program is for tenure-track UC faculty who have not yet been awarded tenure. Awards will be $25,000 in essentially unrestricted funds. Total Program Budget: $200,000; 8 awards will be made. RFP released October 28, 2020 × 04 Nov 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing the One Pager - The Shortest Path to Success (11/4) Time: November 4, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. If interested, you may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 30 Oct 2020 Event UC Research Conversations: Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Award (10/30) Time: October 30, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research × 27 Oct 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Building Your Research Team - Undergrads, Graduate Students and Postdocs (10/27) Time: October 27, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Forming a research team and looking for collaborators? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from co-investigators and collaborators to graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 26 Oct 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Post Award Management - Audits and Investigations (10/26) Time: October 26, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. In this session you will learn about the different sorts of audit and review that sponsored programs are subject to. The university performs multiple internal reviews of programs, to ensure compliance and help protect us in the event of external reviews from funding agencies and law enforcement. Here about what auditors focus on, and how to best manage inquiries. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 21 Oct 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Post Award Management - Fiscal Fundamentals (10/21) Time: October 21, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. In this session, you will discover additional areas of responsible fiscal management are covered here, including labor verififcation, award changes, no-cost extensions, carry forward, and subaward management. Close-out and transfer of awards will also be discussed. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 19 Oct 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Post Award Management - Fiscal Fundamentals (10/19) Time: October 19, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. In this session, you'll learn about the basic characteristics of various award types, the responsibilities of post -award management, and the essential standards for cost - Allowability, Allocability, Reasonableness, and consistent treatment. Procurement, documentation, and budget modifications are also covered. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 15 Oct 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: International Research Engagement (10/15) Time: October 15, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research While the overwhelming majority of foreign engagement is beneficial or benign we are all aware that there is increasing federal scrutiny and public pressure to disclose and monitor funding and affiliations that might reflect foreign influence. As part of a global university you need tools to help you navigate this rapidly changing landscape and gain insights into identifying potential pitfalls. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 05 Oct 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Internal Funding Opportunities - What's New from the Office of Research (10/5) Time: October 5, 1:30 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Get to know the UC Program Officer (PO) and gain valuable insight into UC’s internal opportunities! Get the low-down on internal funding from the PO of Office of Research internal funding opportunities. In this session, the PO will disclose details about internal funding programs and lead a discussion about what has changed and what is new this year and the value of internal funding (beyond money). Participants will gain concrete information, examples, and opportunity to ask questions of the PO. Find out more about the internal funding opportunities on the Office of Research website. Please feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 28 Sep 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Proposal Submission - Grant Review and Award Setup (9/28) Time: September 28, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. In this session, you will ;earn about what happens after grants have been submitted - the peer review process, what to expect in advance of a grant receiving funding, and how to get your awards set up and ready to go in a timely and efficient manner. We will discuss "Just In Time" information requests, compliance issues, negotiations, pre-award spending, and final execution of agreements. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 25 Sep 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Proposal Submission - Opportunities, Budgets, and Justifications (9/25) Time: September 25, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. In this session, you will discover some of the tools available to find opportunities for grant submissions, and how you can help and work with the faculty in your department to help them locate potential sources of funding. Learn how to help your faculty create effective budgets and budget justifications. Learn about F&A costs, cost shares, subawards, and other key pieces of the budget process. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 25 Sep 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: UC Infrastructure (9/25) Time: September 25, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Knowing what infrastructure is available at UC can be a huge asset to your research throughout your career. Have you ever needed a piece of specialized equipment and knew it would not be feasible to include in your budget? Has your research outgrown your computer? Do you need secure data storage? Are you searching for collaborative research areas available at UC? Do you need help publishing through a repository? If you answered yes to any of these questions, we may have some solutions for you. A panel of UC faculty and staff will provide overviews and ways to connect throughout UC’s infrastructure. We will be covering the following areas: UC Core Facilities (east and west campus), UC’s High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, which is a part of the Advanced Research Computing (ARC) Initiative, UC’s Skin Science & Technology Collaborative (S2TC), which allows scientists to share their research and connect not only with each other but with industry partners, and UC Libraries, where faculty can receive support throughout the research lifecycle. Please feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 23 Sep 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Proposal Submission Basics (9/23) Time: September 23, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. In this session, you will learn about the basics of proposals, the different types of applications, the roles of various offices in the submission process, and the keys to helping manage the submission of a successful proposal. Certifications, approvals, review, and submission will be discussed. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 21 Sep 2020 Event Grant Administration Fundamentals: Introduction to Sponsored Administration (9/21) Time: September 21, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webinar through Microsoft Teams Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services The Office of Research is once again offering our popular training series, Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration, to help grant administrators and other personnel involved in the grant process, from proposal preparation through award close out. Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration is a seven-course series of 2-hour training classes, each on a different topic related to the administration of sponsored awards. This session is an introduction to the world of sponsored programs. Learn the language and jargon of the field, the history of university-based research, the differences between funding mechanisms, and an overview of the various laws and regulations governing sponsored awards. This year, the courses will all be held virtually, via Microsoft Teams. There are no prerequisites, and anyone may take any or all classes as they see fit. Just register using the link below or through the SuccessFactors' catalog under the topic "Fundamentals of Sponsored Administration." × 18 Sep 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Moving Your NSF Biosketch to SciENcv (9/18) Time: September 18, 12:30 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Have you heard about the requirement to have a SciENcv approved biosketch for your NSF proposal submissions beginning October 5, 2020? Are you left wondering what SciENcv is – how to access it or quite frankly where to even begin? Are you asking yourself isn’t SciENcv and the NCBI portal only for NIH proposals? In this session, you will be given an overview of the National Center for Biotechnology and Information (NCBI) and SciENcv, how linking your ORCID can save you time when creating your biosketch in SciENcv. You will be provided with some tips and tricks, as-well-as best practices for creating and saving your biosketches. × 09 Sep 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (9/9) Time: September 9, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, postdocs, staff, graduate students and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, OoR staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. You may submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 02 Sep 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: How to Find Funding Opportunities (9/2) Time: September 2, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: Zoom Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you is important. In this session, you will learn from experts where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders’ interests, missions and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. Feel free to submit questions in advance to Research Development. × 20 Aug 2020 Event Emerging Technologies in Literacy: How EdTech is Helping our Children Learn to Read (8/20) Time: August 20, 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Graduate Students, K-12 Educators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The University of Cincinnati Office of Research and Digital Futures will be hosting a live webcast, entitled “Emerging Technologies in Literacy: How EdTech is Helping our Children Learn to Read.” As the adage goes, children learn to read so they can read to learn. Our panel of researchers, industry leaders, and policy makers will explore how parents and teachers can help stimulate their young learners during this period of virtual learning spurred by the coronavirus pandemic. They will also discuss the future of EdTech as it relates to literacy in the U.S. education system. Panelists: Renee Seward – Founder of See Word Design, Associate Professor of Communication Design in the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning, and Digital Futures Lab Leader Mike Tholfsen – Principal Group Product Manager at Microsoft Education. Responsible for Microsoft's inclusive classroom product strategy, focusing on empowering students of all abilities. Kent Kanipe – Vice President, Engineering – Learning A-Z, an education technology company dedicated to expanding literacy through thoughtfully designed resources Melissa Weber-Mayrer – Director of the Office of Approaches to Teaching and Professional Learning, Ohio Department of Education Moderator: Jai Chabria – Former Senior Advisor to Ohio Governor John Kasich and current Managing Director at Mercury, a Global Strategy Firm Digital Futures is the University of Cincinnati’s transdisciplinary space dedicated to bringing together experts for collaboration in use-inspired basic research and applied research. This future-focused research harnesses the power of industry-leading intellect and technology to advance our region and impact our global society. × 24 Jul 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Logic Models - A Skill-Building Workshop to Improve your Grant Proposals (7/24) Time: July 24, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Virtual Target Audience: All faculty, postdocs, staff, graduate students, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you looking for a framework that helps others visualize what you plan to achieve with your research? Are you writing an early career grant, i.e. an NSF CAREER proposal? Are you interested in writing any grant where you have to define your expected outcomes and how you will achieve them? Do you need to clarify your own thinking about what your grant is trying to achieve with your planned activities? If so, this workshop is for you. A Logic Model may be the very tool you need to achieve all of these goals. A Logic Model is a simple tool that depicts the relationship between your research or educational program's activities and its intended effects or outcomes. Utilizing a Logic Model creates a concise and highly descriptive graphic that will raise your proposal to the next level. In this interactive session, Dr. Liz Litzler from the University of Washington will work with attendees to build their capacity to create a useful logic model that can be used to design and evaluate a project/grant. Logic models are a solid tool to help ensure continuity and achievement of your project goals. Attendees will walk away with a greater level of comfort and confidence about logic models and evaluation, relevant resources, and an initial draft of your own project logic model. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 16 Jun 2020 Event RDSS: Writing a Good Data Management Plan (6/16) Time: June 16, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: New and continuing researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you looking for guidance to write a good data management plan to accompany your successful grant application? In this interactive workshop, participants will use tools such as a checklist, template, and example language to compose the main points of a grant worthy data management plan appropriate for most funders. If you are interested in attending, you may submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 26 May 2020 Event UC Research Conversations: Discipline-Based Education Research – Foundations (5/26) Time: May 26, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs, and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you engaged in evidence-generating activities in education research? Are you focused on some aspect of the education continuum: discipline-based preK-12 education, undergraduate education, graduate education, teacher education, faculty development, workforce development, etc.? Are you looking for a community of colleagues to advance your research/scholarly efforts? High quality evidence-generating education research combines knowledge of a discipline, the challenges of student success in that discipline and the research of student success, generally. If you identify with this type of research, consider attending this workshop that will be highlighting the Spencer Foundation and funding opportunities for discipline-based education research. Information will also be shared concerning best practices when working with the UC Foundation and the benefits that your research can have when applying to foundations where there is a relationship already formed. Attendees will also learn about the discipline-based education research (DBER) community and be provided with additional information on how to join the community listserv. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 13 May 2020 Event Research Continuity Discussion: Research Return to Campus (5/13) Time: May 13, 4:00 PM - 5:30 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: All Faculty and Research Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Vice President for Research and Office of Research senior staff will be hosting a Research Continuity Discussion via WebEx. We will discuss the next steps and principles guiding a Research Return to Campus with a June 1st target date. WebEx meeting information will be sent upon registration. Questions are strongly encouraged. To assist us in obtaining the best information available, please submit questions beforehand to research@uc.edu. All participants are asked to mute their microphone and turn off the camera upon entry. We will use WebEx’s chat feature for questions/comments during the discussion. Feel free to share this notice broadly within the UC research community. × 01 May 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Moving Your NSF Biosketch to SciENcv (5/1) Time: May 1, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Have you heard about the requirement to have a SciENcv approved biosketch for your NSF proposal submissions beginning June 1, 2020? Are you left wondering what SciENcv is – how to access it or quite frankly where to even begin? Are you asking yourself isn’t SciENcv and the NCBI portal only for NIH proposals? In this session, you will be given an overview of the National Center for Biotechnology and Information (NCBI) and SciENcv, how linking your ORCID can save you time when creating your biosketch in SciENcv. You will be provided with some tips and tricks, as-well-as best practices for creating and saving your biosketches. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 30 Apr 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing Your Career Grant in 12 Weeks (Kickoff 2) (4/30) Time: April 30, 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Webex Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type. Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Career Grant Writing Group is a supportive community to keep participants motivated and accountable as they work toward submitting their Career or similar grant. The group’s structure draws on research and experience demonstrating that writing productivity increases when faculty are accountable to a supportive peer community and write regularly in a semi-structured environment. The structure is based on the NSF CAREER grant call, but could be adapted to other NSF grants or other agencies. Career Grant Writing Group participants will have one online meeting, which will serve as an opportunity to meet one another and prepare for the upcoming 12 weeks culminating with the submission of your a grant in July. In addition, over the course of the 12 weeks, participants will commit to near-daily writing (for example, a minimum of a half an hour a day) and have opportunities for mini-workshops and/or office hours on important sections of the CAREER grant, such as budget preparation and writing your budget justification, data management plans, and education plans. Resources will be available to participants through a Canvas Community that can be used for logging your progress and barriers to scheduling your writing times to analyzing your reviews if this is not your first submission of your specific research topic. Finally, participants will be paired with another peer participant to provide ongoing writing support. Applicants should already have their research topic in mind and be ready to begin (or continue) writing toward the goal of grant submission in late July 2020. This format is based on Dr. Wendy Laura Belcher's "Writing Your Journal Article in 12 Weeks: A Guide to Academic Publishing Success." Week Date 0 – Kickoff Meeting April 30 1 - Designing Your Plan for Your Grant May 7 2 - Writing Your One-Pager May 14 3 - Confirming Your Research Trajectory May 21 4 - Building Your Budget and Justification May 28 5 - Time to Review and Revise June 4 6 - Prepare for External Review June 11 7 - Pieces Parts June 18 8 - Giving, Getting, and Using Others’ Feedback June 25 9 - Review, Revise, Repeat July 2 10 - Moving to the Submission Format July 9 11 - Wrapping Up Your Grant July 16 12 - Hit Submit! July 23 Meeting Schedule The CAREER Writing Group will be conducted online. • Welcome and Kickoff for one hour. (Week of April 27th) There will be optional mini-workshops and/or office hours on the following topics: • Week 2 - Creating your NSF ID and understanding the use and submission within Fastlane/grants.gov, writing the one-pager workshop, and Talking to Your Program Officer • Week 3 - Review of the video for your educational plan • Week 4 - Creating and aligning your budget and budget justification, • Week 7 - Writing your biosketch, data management plan, facilities, collaborators, and current & pending sections • Week 8 - Writing a postdoc mentoring plan If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 29 Apr 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Building Your Team - Team Science (4/29) Time: April 29, 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Location: WebEx - Online Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Forming a research team and looking for collaborators? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from co-investigators and collaborators to graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 27 Apr 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing Your Career Grant in 12 Weeks (Kickoff 1) (4/27) Time: April 27, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs writing a grant in the next 12 weeks, especially an early career grant of some type. Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Career Grant Writing Group is a supportive community to keep participants motivated and accountable as they work toward submitting their Career or similar grant. The group’s structure draws on research and experience demonstrating that writing productivity increases when faculty are accountable to a supportive peer community and write regularly in a semi-structured environment. The structure is based on the NSF CAREER grant call, but could be adapted to other NSF grants or other agencies. Career Grant Writing Group participants will have one online meeting, which will serve as an opportunity to meet one another and prepare for the upcoming 12 weeks culminating with the submission of your a grant in July. In addition, over the course of the 12 weeks, participants will commit to near-daily writing (for example, a minimum of a half an hour a day) and have opportunities for mini-workshops and/or office hours on important sections of the CAREER grant, such as budget preparation and writing your budget justification, data management plans, and education plans. Resources will be available to participants through a Canvas Community that can be used for logging your progress and barriers to scheduling your writing times to analyzing your reviews if this is not your first submission of your specific research topic. Finally, participants will be paired with another peer participant to provide ongoing writing support. Applicants should already have their research topic in mind and be ready to begin (or continue) writing toward the goal of grant submission in late July 2020. This format is based on Dr. Wendy Laura Belcher's "Writing Your Journal Article in 12 Weeks: A Guide to Academic Publishing Success." Week Date 0 – Kickoff Meeting April 27 1 - Designing Your Plan for Your Grant May 4 2 - Writing Your One-Pager May 11 3 - Confirming Your Research Trajectory May 18 4 - Building Your Budget and Justification May 25 5 - Time to Review and Revise June 1 6 - Prepare for External Review June 8 7 - Pieces Parts June 15 8 - Giving, Getting, and Using Others’ Feedback June 22 9 - Review, Revise, Repeat June 29 10 - Moving to the Submission Format July 6 11 - Wrapping Up Your Grant July 13 12 - Hit Submit! July 20 Meeting Schedule The CAREER Writing Group will be conducted online. • Welcome and Kickoff for one hour. (Week of April 27th) There will be optional mini-workshops and/or office hours on the following topics: • Week 2 - Creating your NSF ID and understanding the use and submission within Fastlane/grants.gov, writing the one-pager workshop, and Talking to Your Program Officer • Week 3 - Review of the video for your educational plan • Week 4 - Creating and aligning your budget and budget justification, • Week 7 - Writing your biosketch, data management plan, facilities, collaborators, and current & pending sections • Week 8 - Writing a postdoc mentoring plan If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 20 Apr 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Q&A on Writing Your Early Career Grant (4/20) Time: April 20, 3:30 PM - 5:00 PM Location: online Target Audience: Early Career Faculty and Researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you considering writing an early career grant in the coming months? Did you attend the March 30th Early Career Grant Writing Workshop presented by Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies and now have more questions? Did you miss Lucy’s workshop and still have questions on writing an early career grant? Do you just want to hear the questions of others working on an early career grant? This session Q&A session is for you! Join us as we welcome Lucy and her expertise back for an open Question and Answer session on writing early career grants. In addition, we will announce details of an opportunity to join an online community working to write their early career grants in 12 weeks. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 10 Apr 2020 Event NASEM Action Collaborative on Harassing Behaviors - UC Kickoff (4/10) Time: April 10, 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Online Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Graduate Students, Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research In June 2018, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) published the report, Sexual Harassment of Women: Climate, Culture, and Consequences in Academic Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The report highlighted that between 20 and 50 percent of women students and more than 50 percent of women faculty and staff experienced sexually harassing behavior while in academia. Research demonstrates that sexual harassment undermines the professional and educational attainment and mental and physical health of people of all genders. It also shows that these consequences are not limited to those experiencing it directly; but that bystanders – people of all genders – who experience ambient harassment in their work or education environment are also affected. Consequently, the NASEM established an Action Collaborative on Preventing Sexual Harassment in Higher Education “to work toward targeted, collective action on addressing and preventing sexual harassment across all disciplines and among all people in higher education” (www.nationalacademies.org…). In 2019, the University of Cincinnati (UC) became one of the initial members of this national Action Collaborative, which has been limited to just over 60 academic and research institutions. As a member of this action-focused initiative, UC is committed, along with the other institutional members of the Action Collaborative, to achieving targeted, collective action toward evidence-based policies and practices at the individual and systems levels for addressing and preventing all forms of sexual harassment and promoting a culture of civility and respect. The national Action Collaborative includes four working groups: Evaluation, Prevention, Response, and Remediation. This kickoff event will introduce and work to organize UC’s commitment by giving an overview of the NASEM report and an introductory discussion of UC’s internal working group structure, which mirrors the national structure of four working groups. The welcome and motivation for UC’s participation will be provided by Dr. Kristi Nelson, Senior Vice Provost for Academic Planning and Dr. Patrick Limbach, Vice President for Research. The event will host Professor Rose Marie Ward, Interim Dean of the Graduate School, Miami University, as a plenary speaker. Dr. Ward has been working in this area for several years and will share lessons learned from years of data collection and research in this area. Finally, a call to action will be issued to those interested in participating in a UC Action Collaborative Working Group. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 10 Apr 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Talking to Your Program Officer (4/10) Time: April 10, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: WebEx Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers, postdocs and administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you ready to have a conversation with a federal agency program officer but don’t know how to start? Are you interested in learning about how a study section or review panel works? Having these conversations and understandings are a key step to gaining valuable insight into the funding potential of your ideas. In this interactive session, you’ll learn from faculty who are or have recently worked at major federal agencies as they share the do’s and don’ts of making contact, meeting logistics and follow-up. Plus, you’ll hear their tips on effective ways to talk about your research. If you are interested in attending, you may also submit questions in advance by emailing them to Research Development. × 08 Apr 2020 Event Research Continuity DIscussion (4/8) Time: April 8, 4:30 PM - 5:30 PM Location: WebEx Target Audience: All Research Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Vice President for Research, Office of Research senior staff and leadership in the College of Medicine Office of Research will be hosting a Research Continuity Discussion via WebEx. We will provide the latest updates on what we know and still don’t know regarding UC research activities during and after COVID-19 and the Stay at Home Order. WebEx meeting information will be sent upon registration. Questions are strongly encouraged. To assist us in obtaining the best information available, please submit questions beforehand to research@uc.edu. All participants will be muted upon entry and asked to use WebEx’s chat feature for questions/comments. Feel free to share this notice broadly within the UC research community. × 30 Mar 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Early Career Grant Writing Workshop (3/30) Time: March 30, 1:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Webex Target Audience: Early Career Faculty and Researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies will be here for a basic grant writing workshop focused on early career and/or young investigator grants and is open to all faculty. This workshop is highly interactive and is targeted toward faculty who are ready to, or are considering applying, for early career or young investigator grants within the next few years. The workshop includes a series of discussions about the workshop topics along with some exercises and examples. Materials: Additional materials and resources will be provided to each participant. These will include additional background materials, resources, and example sections of successful proposals. × 30 Mar 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Outreach, Education and Infrastructure Panel (3/30) Time: March 30, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Webex (Link coming soon) Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research × 18 Mar 2020 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (3/18) Time: March 18, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/college administrators/staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall Contact Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services, Accounting Division with any questions. × 16 Mar 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Write Winning Grant Proposals (3/16) Time: March 16, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Lindner Hall, Room 1210 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Presenter: Dr. John Robertson from Grant Writers' Seminars & Workshops What will be covered: This widely acclaimed seminar comprehensively addresses both practical and conceptual aspects that are important to the proposal-writing process. Emphasis is given to such things as idea development, identification of the most appropriate granting agency, how to write for reviewers, and tips and strategies that are of proven value in presenting an applicant's case to reviewers. Regardless of the agency, participants are taught to write with a linear progression of logic, which leads reviewers through their applications. Strategies designed to merit a fundable priority score are emphasized. There is a $75.00 fee which covers the cost of the participant’s copy of The Grant Application Writer’s Workbook. Participants can select their choice of one workbook focusing on NIH, NSF, USDA/NIFA, or Any Agency (for proposals other than NIH, NSF, or USDA). The workbook begins with refinement of the idea and then systematically progresses through tips and strategies for each section of the proposal, concluding with pre-submission review and writing of the accompanying cover letter. Lunch is provided. Registration is required and closes March 1st, 2019. × 02 Mar 2020 Event Research Development & Support Series: Multi-PIs and Center Grants (3/2) Time: March 2, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: University Hall 454 Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research × 25 Feb 2020 Event Research Development and Support Series: Rigor and Reproducibility (2/25) Time: February 25, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Rigor, reproducibility, replicability, and transparency are critical to the advancement of research and are key topics being discussed within such agencies as the NIH, NSF, and other funding agencies, as well as multiple professional societies. The National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) released a new census study report in 2019 titled Reproducibility and Replicability in Science. The NIH has updated their grant application instructions and review language in order to promote these tenets of rigorous, reproducible, and inclusive research. NSF produced a document highlighting the need for data transparency and noting such cultural issues as lack of publication of studies yielding negative results or replications of past studies. ﻿ With this growing concern about the irreproducibility and lack of rigor or transparency of research in many fields, this will be a conversation on possible methods and tools available to UC researchers noting that one-size does not fit all. Countless resources can be squandered on experiments that are poorly designed, recorded, analyzed, and/or reported. What are the consequences, what are the key factors, and what tools are available to promote rigorous, reproducible research? Examples across several fields will be shared by participants. × 24 Feb 2020 Event CEAS Conversation on Writing Center Grants (2/24) Time: February 24, 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center (West Campus Langsam Library), Room 540G Target Audience: All CEAS faculty and research staff interested in large center-level proposals Research Office: Research Development Are you already working toward a large proposal that is multi-investigator, multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional and over $2 million? We would like to invite you to a conversation of like-minded people in the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences to discuss internal and external resources for you to leverage. This includes hearing from persons who have just returned from reviewing planning grants, pre-proposals, full proposals, and site reviews at the pre-funding and post-funding stages of these large center grants. This includes such calls from agencies such as the NSF (e.g., ERC – Engineering Research Centers), the Department of Transportation (e.g., University Transportation Centers), and the Department of Defense (e.g., Multidisciplinary University Research Initiatives), just to name a few as there are many others. These types of grants typically takes months, if not years, of planning. The College, in conjunction with the Office of Research, would like to get a clear picture of those interested and understand how we can support the formation of these large center grants. There is an upcoming workshop for teams, along with other grant writing support options that will be discussed. Often difficult areas such as the education and outreach components, as well as assessment and evaluation and integrating research from various disciplines will be included. Target Audience: All CEAS faculty and research staff interested in large center-level proposals Moderator: Teri Reed, Assistant VP Faculty Research Development Questions? Contact Teri Reed at teri.reed@uc.edu. × 12 Feb 2020 Event RDSS: Writing the One Pager (2/12) Time: February 12, 2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Location: Langsam Library, Faculty Enrichment Center (540F) Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. × 30 Jan 2020 Event RDSS: Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (1/30) Time: January 30, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Langsam Library, Faculty Enrichment Center (540F) Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, OoR staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. × 27 Jan 2020 Event RDSS: Office of Research Expert Buffet (1/27) Time: January 27, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Langsam Library, Faculty Enrichment Center (540G) Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is an opportunity to learn about important processes and resources from top institutional research leaders who can help you make the most of your research efforts at UC and do it fast! This workshop will feature more than 10+ research experts sharing their tips and processes to help people more easily navigate their research endeavors here at the University of Cincinnati. × 08 Jan 2020 Event UC Conversations: The Future of Work (1/8) Time: January 8, 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center Langsam Library, Rooms 540F&G Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The National Science Foundation has released a call for proposals focused on one of their 10 “Big Ideas”(2) – namely the “Future of Work and the Human Technology Frontier”. A successful proposal to this program will require a diversity of disciplinary perspectives and will be reviewed by a cross-disciplinary team of NSF Program Officers, as stated in the call. “The Future of Work at the Human-Technology Frontier (FW-HTF), one of the Big Ideas, is one mechanism by which NSF is responding to the challenges and opportunities for the future of jobs and work. The overarching vision is to support convergent research(3) to understand and develop the human-technology partnership, design new technologies to augment human performance, illuminate the emerging socio- technological landscape, understand the risks and benefits of new technologies, understand and influence the impact of artificial intelligence on workers and work, and foster lifelong and pervasive learning.”(1) Target Audience: All faculty and research staff interested in the Future of Work and the Human Technology Frontier Moderator: Teri Reed, Assistant VP Faculty Research Development (please review the following prior to attending the conversation) (1) NSF 20-515: www.nsf.gov… (2) NSF’s 10 Big Ideas: www.nsf.gov… (3) Convergent Research definition: www.nsf.gov… × 17 Dec 2019 Event [Cancelled] Best Practices in Grants Management (12/17) Time: December 17, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 450 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services *** Cancelled 12/16/2019 due to lack of registrations. *** This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall. Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services Office, Accounting Department × 11 Dec 2019 Event Confluence Tech Showcase & Aqua Pitch (12/11) Time: December 11, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Cincinnati Marriott North 6189 Muhlhauser Rd. West Chester, OH 45069 (Off Union Centre Blvd.) Target Audience: Researchers with a focus on water and/or water resources Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Background: The Confluence Tech Showcase & Aqua Pitch will bring together leaders from the water industry, government, and universities, to network and share perspectives on regional, national, and global water challenges. Confluence is dedicated to addressing these challenges, while creating important opportunities for innovation, commercialization, work force development, and economic growth. CALL FOR ABSTRACTS Who Should Answer the Call: This call for abstracts is addressed to the managers who maintain the key water infrastructure assets underpinning our regional and national economies, and to the engineers and scientists who research, develop, commercialize, and apply the innovative technologies for assessing, maintaining, and improving these assets. Confluence will be awarding the "W" Prize to the best presentations. Topics: Abstracts are solicited broadly for presentations showcasing latest practices, technological innovations, market-changing challenges, and business opportunities illustrating or driving innovation within the water industry. The Tech Showcase is designed to bring together the problems with the problem solvers - the conditions that lead to innovation, commercialization, productivity, and sustainability. Our view is every thoughtful idea deserves a hearing. You will find a detailed list of topics Here. Agenda 7:30 - 8:00 - Registration 8:00 - 8:30 - Welcome and introduction of special guests West Chester III 8:30 - 9:50 - Session I Innovative Treatment Technologies West Chester I & II Sensing, Analytics and Smart Technologies West Chester V & VI 9:50 - 10:30 - Networking Break 10:30 - 11:30 - Session II Innovative Treatment Technologies II West Chester I & II Sensing, Analytics and Smart Technologies II West Chester V & VI 11:30 - 1:00 - Luncheon and Keynote Presentation West Chester III 1:00 - 2:40 - Session III Corporate Water Sustainability Goals & Technology West Chester I & II Green Infrastructure Technologies & Best Practices West Chester V & VI 2:40 - 3:20 - Networking Break 3:20 - 4:40 - Session IV Water Research Consortium Grant Challenge Finalist West Chester I & II 5:00 - 7:00 - Confluence Connects Dingle House Irish Pub, across from the Marriott. × 06 Dec 2019 Event Refresher on Reliance Agreements, External IRBs, and Multi-Site Studies (12/6) Time: December 6, 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Location: MSB E684 Target Audience: Clinical Research Professionals (CRPs) at UC/H and Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC): including Principal Investigators (PIs), Research Nurses (RNs), Critical Care Unit Nurses (RNs), Pharmacy Technicians and Regulatory Specialists. Research Office: Human Research Protection Program Angela B. Braggs-Brown and Kareemah Mills of the UC Human Research Protection Program (HRPP), will be discussing general IRB reliance, the criteria for reliance determinations, establishing reliance agreements, the institutional requirements, budgets, and continuing oversight. Join us and learn more! For more information, please contact Nate Harris at Nate.Harris@uchealth.com × 22 Nov 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series: Writing the One Pager: The Shortest Path to Success (11/22) Time: November 22, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: University Hall, Room 450 Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Postdocs, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. × 18 Nov 2019 Event Lunch n' Learn: Ohio Innocence Project (11/18) Time: November 18, 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Medical Sciences Building 2351 Target Audience: Office of Research Employees Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Ohio Innocence Project has freed 28 Ohioans from prison who together served 525 years in prison for crimes they didn't commit. Professor Mark Godsey, cofounder and director of OIP, will talk of OIP's mission and successes, and one of his exonerated clients, Dean Gillispie, will tell his emotional story of serving two decades in prison for crimes he didn't commit. × 18 Nov 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series – Advanced Budgeting (11/18) Time: November 18, 9:30 AM - 11:00 AM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This workshop is an expansion on the principles discussed in our basic budgeting workshop. We will go into more detail about some of the trickier elements of budgeting, such as distinguishing between subcontractors and consultants, defining capital equipment, determining the MTDC base, student aid vs. student wages, and other items. We encourage attendees to bring their own questions and cases from budgets they are working or have worked on, and we can provide specific guidance as needed. × 04 Nov 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series – Building Your Research Team: Undergrads, Graduate Students and Postdocs (11/4) Time: November 4, 9:30 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center, Langsam Library, Room 540F Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Forming a research team? Looking for undergraduate researchers? Graduate Students? Postdocs? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. × 30 Oct 2019 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (10/30) Time: October 30, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall. Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services Office, Accounting Department × 29 Oct 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series – NASA Webinar (10/29) Time: October 29, 1:30 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center, Langsam Library, Room 540F Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research × 23 Oct 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series – International Research Engagement (10/23) Time: October 23, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Langsam Library, Room 475 Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research While the overwhelming majority of foreign engagement is beneficial or benign we are all aware that there is increasing federal scrutiny and public pressure to disclose and monitor funding and affiliations that might reflect foreign influence. As part of a global university you need tools to help you navigate this rapidly changing landscape and gain insights into identifying potential pitfalls. × 22 Oct 2019 Event Government Cost Compliance (10/22) Time: October 22, 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM Location: University Hall 610 Target Audience: Office of Research Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Did you know that Government Cost Compliance works to ensure university-wide compliance with University policies and Federal Regulation. Come and join GCC and find out there involvement in key areas (payroll verification, sub recipient monitoring, NSF HERD survey, F&A Rates) and how they impact the University. × 17 Oct 2019 Event Research Development Support – Internal Funding Opportunities: Learning from Past Recipients (10/17) Time: October 17, 1:30 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center, Langsam Library, Room 540F Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research × 11 Oct 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series: AtKisson Group NEH Grant Writing Seminar (10/11) Time: October 11, 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center - Langsam Library 540 G Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Graduate Students, Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This day-long session is based on a combined presentation, hands-on reading and discussion approach, focusing on the rhetorical elements and information flow that underlie compelling grant proposals. How does the planning process impact the final proposal? What key information must be on the first page? How do you organize the discussion of the approach so that your plan is crystal clear to your reviewer? Many of the answers to these questions are common across funders, and the program provides both conceptual approaches and concrete methods for constructing competitive proposals. The day is facilitated by two presenters with extensive experience in successful grant applications to fund arts and humanities projects use and provide training in skills that can be used across funders. The Presenters: Peg AtKisson has 19 years of grant writing and training experience across multiple agencies and disciplines. She founded the proposal and research development office at Tufts University starting as a contract grant writer in 2001. In 8 years she and her team contributed to $140,000,000 in funded proposals from NSF, NIH, USDA, USAID, Keck Foundation, and others. After working as a trainer for a grant writing consulting firm, Dr. AtKisson founded AtKisson Training Group (ATG) to expand training beyond the proposal document and into the overall planning for funding and academic success. Mary Hensel brings decades of fund raising for arts, environmental and health non-profits with university research and funding development at every level of the fund-raising ladder. She established the University of Massachusetts – Dartmouth’s Office of Research Development to coordinate complex submissions and provide infrastructure support to the academic community. She holds an MBA from the University of Chicago. For a $50 registration fee, participants receive the presentation handouts and the Handbook for Planning and Writing Successful Proposals. The Handbook is used during the day and serves as a resource for proposal writing. × 10 Oct 2019 Event Research Development & Support Series: AtKisson Group NIH Grant Writing Seminar (10/10) Time: October 10, 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Location: Medical Sciences Building (MSB E351) Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Graduate Students, Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This day-long session is based on a combined lecture, reading and discussion approach, focusing on the key organizational principles for writing competitive grant proposals. How does the planning process impact the final proposal? What key information must be on the first page? How do you organize the discussion of the approach so that your plan is crystal clear to your reviewer? Many of the answers to these questions are common across funders, and the program provides both conceptual approaches and concrete methods for constructing competitive proposals. The approach is based on 19 years of grant writing and training experience across multiple agencies and disciplines. The presenter, M. S. (Peg) AtKisson founded the proposal and research development office at Tufts University starting as a contract grant writer in 2001. In 8 years she and her team contributed to $140,000,000 in funded proposals from NSF, NIH, USDA, USAID, Keck Foundation, and others. After working as a trainer for a grant writing consulting firm, Dr. AtKisson founded AtKisson Training Group (ATG) to expand training beyond the proposal document and into the overall planning for funding and academic success. Dr. AtKisson is a highly acclaimed public speaker with a track record of helping faculty improve their competitiveness for funding. For a $50 registration fee, participants receive the presentation handouts and the Handbook for Planning and Writing Successful Proposals. The Handbook is used during the day and serves as a resource for proposal writing. The morning session covers aspects such as assessing readiness, identifying funder priorities, and setting time lines for crafting the submission. The second part of the morning covers the all-important first page—the NIH Specific Aims page, or the opening page of any proposal to any funder. In the afternoon we cover clear and compelling ways to present the preliminary data, the foundational literature and the research plan using concrete writing strategies. The rest of the afternoon covers the additional pieces of a proposal, including title and abstract, writing style, and re-submission. × 10 Oct 2019 Event National Lab Day (10/10 - 10/12) Time: October 10, 12:00 AM - October 12, 12:00 AM Location: University of Toledo Target Audience: Students and Researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The University of Toledo is hosting this years Ohio National Lab Day 2019 to explore opportunities for partnerships and connect students and researchers with U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) national laboratories. The Department of Energy maintains 17 preeminent labs across the country, providing unique scientific and technological capabilities that are often beyond the scope of academic and industrial institutions. The labs maintains user facilities as shared resources that may be accessed by the scientific community. Learn how to access world class facilities and connect with DOE lab researchers. View http://www.utoledo.edu/research/national-lab-day/ for more details. × 04 Oct 2019 Event Research Development Support Series: How to Find Funding Opportunities (10/4) Time: October 4, 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center 540F (Langsam Library 5th Floor) Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you, is important. In this session, you will learn from experts where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders’ interests, missions and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. What will be covered: External funding opportunities available via the federal government, the state of Ohio, the City of Cincinnati, Hamilton County, Foundations, and Industry. Introduction of UC’s grant search engine, InfoED SPIN and limited submissions process at UC. Internal funding opportunities from the Provost Office and the Office of Research will be briefly covered. Presenters: Susan Dunlap, University of Cincinnati Foundation Associate Director Foundation & Corporation Relations Sarah Clift, Office of Research Coordinator Proposal Development Services Keisha Love, University of Cincinnati Associate Provost of Academic Personnel Moderator: Teri Reed, Office of Research Assistant Vice President Faculty Research Development Questions? Contact Teri Reed at teri.reed@uc.edu. × 02 Oct 2019 Event Research Development Support Series: National Academy of Sciences - Tom Rudin Town Hall (10/2) Time: October 2, 11:30 AM - 1:30 PM Location: College Conservatory of Music, The Baur Room (CCM -3880 Corbett Center) Target Audience: Faculty, Postdocs, Research Administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Tom Rudin is the Director of the Board on Higher Education and Workforce (BHEW) at the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine — a position he assumed in mid-August 2014. Prior to joining the Academies, Mr. Rudin served as senior vice president for career readiness and senior vice president for advocacy, government relations and development at the College Board from 2006-2014. He was also vice president for government relations from 2004-2006 and executive director of grants planning and management from 1996-2004 at the College Board. Before joining the College Board, Mr. Rudin was a policy analyst at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. × 30 Sep 2019 Event Research Development Support Series: Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (9/30) Time: September 30, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Procter Hall, Room 286 Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, OoR staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. × 19 Sep 2019 Event CCTST Presents: Team Science Basics (9/19) Time: September 19, 2:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: CAHS Health Sciences Building, Room 250 Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The CCTST Center for Improvement Science is presenting a workshop: Team Science Basics, on Thursday, Sept. 19; 2:00-4:30 PM in the CAHS Health Sciences Building, Rm 250. Speakers include Jack Kues, PhD; Rebecca Lee, PhD, RN; and Saundra Regan, PhD. This workshop introduces participants to foundational concepts within team science: the importance of interprofessional collaboration in a contemporary research setting, principles of good team communication, and positive team behaviors such as improving communication and enhancing team effectiveness. For more information, contact Jackie Knapke at knapkeje@uc.edu. × 11 Sep 2019 Event 2020 Ralph E. Powe Information Session (9/11) Time: September 11, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Location: Faculty Enrichment Center, Langsam Library, Room 540A Target Audience: Early Career Faculty interested in applying for the ORAU Ralph E. Powe, Jr. Award Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research There will an informational session held in the Faculty Enrichment Center Rm 540A for the 2020 Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement funding opportunity. During this time interested faculty members will have the opportunity to hear from past reviewers and awardees. Interest for this opportunity will need to be submitted through the UC limited submission portal no later than the close of business on September 18, 2019. We hope to see you on September 11th. × 28 Aug 2019 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (8/28) Time: August 28, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall. Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services Office, Accounting Department × 28 Aug 2019 Event Research Development and Support Series: Kentucky Data Research Center Information Session (8/28) Time: August 28, 9:30 AM - 11:30 AM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: Faculty, Research Staff, Graduate Students Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research KRDC offers researchers the opportunity to use restricted-access federal data to conduct advanced research in fields such as economics, management, business, demography, health, epidemiology, geography, environment, urban planning, political science, sociology, criminology, and more. The primary federal sponsors of data in KRDC are the U.S. Census Bureau, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The advantages of restricted-access data include larger samples, finer levels of geography (in some cases census block and tract levels), additional variables, and more detailed coding of key variables. In addition, many datasets are linked to records from administrative databases. Popular economic and demographic datasets • Longitudinal Business Database (LBD) • Census of Manufactures (CSM) • Longitudinal Employer–Household Dynamics (LEHD) • American Community Survey (ACS) • Current Population Survey (CPS) • Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) Popular health statistics datasets • Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) • National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) • National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) • National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) • National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) × 27 Aug 2019 Event Lunch & Learn (8/27) Time: August 27, 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM Location: University Hall 610 Target Audience: Office of Research Employees Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Come discover the many hats of HR. We can help with your career growth i.e. job duties, promotions, equity reviews. We give support through answering question on Benefits, TOFW and FMLA/MLOA leaves etc. We help ensure fast, fair and equitable hiring. We make sure you get paid correctly and that all time is accurately reported on your paycheck. We are on the cutting edge of teaching good SMART Goals to prepare everyone for the New Performance Management System (PMS) for the FY21 year. × 23 Aug 2019 Event RDSS: OFRN Information Session (8/23) Time: August 23, 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: Faculty, Grant Administrators, Business Partners, Contracting Agents Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Ohio Federal Research Network is partnering with the University of Cincinnati to present the OFRN Information Session which will give an overview of the Ohio Federal Research Network (OFRN) and the soon to be released OFRN Round 4 RFP for the Sustaining Ohio's Aeronautical Readiness and Innovation in the Next Generation (SOARING 2.0) initiative. Attendees will: •Gain an overview of the OFRN and OFRN's Round 4 RFP for the Sustaining Ohio's Aeronautical Readiness and Innovation in the Next Generation (SOARING 2.0) initiative •Acquire insight about the OFRN contracting process and how OFRN’s dollars and contracts work •Receive free grantsmanship training on going after federal research dollars Contracting personnel will have the opportunity to have in-depth discussions with an OFRN contracts officer. Who Should Attend? Researchers, businesses, and contracting agents interested in learning about the OFRN and the OFRN Round 4 SOARING 2.0 RFP should attend this informational briefing. × 12 Aug 2019 Event Fundamentals: Post Award Management: Audits and Investigations (8/12) Time: August 12, 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services Learn about the different sorts of audit and review that sponsored programs are subject to. The university performs multiple internal reviews of programs, to ensure compliance and help protect us in the event of external reviews from funding agencies and law enforcement. Here about what auditors focus on, and how to best manage inquiries. × 08 Aug 2019 Event Regional Postdoc Meeting (8/8) Time: August 8, 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center Target Audience: Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The University of Cincinnati and Cincinnati Children’s Hospital and Medical Center are happy to host the 2019 meeting of our Regional Postdoctoral Associations on August 8, 2019 from 9am – 3pm at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital and Medical Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. This meeting will present an opportunity to network, share, and discuss how to best support postdocs/trainees moving forward. × 08 Aug 2019 Event Fundamentals: Post Award Management: Additional Topics (8/8) Time: August 8, 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrator Research Office: Sponsored Research Services Additional areas of responsible fiscal management are covered here, including labor verififcation, award changes, no-cost extensions, carry forward, and subaward management. Close-out and transfer of awards is also discussed here. × 05 Aug 2019 Event Fundamentals: Post Award Management: Fiscal Fundamentals (8/5) Time: August 5, 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services Learn about the basic characterstics of various award types, the responsiblities of post -award management, and the essential stnards for cost - Allowability, Allocability, Reasonableness, and consistent treatment. Procurement, documentation, and budget modifications are also covered. × 02 Aug 2019 Event STEM Accessibility Conference (8/2) Time: August 2, 9:00 AM - 4:00 PM Location: Starfire Council of Greater Cincinnati Target Audience: Faculty, Students, Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The STEM Accessibility Conference, presented by the University of Cincinnati, is a two-day workshop held August 1 & 2, 2019, and will bring together a community of experts to discuss career pathways in STEM disciplines, and collectively identify and begin to address challenges preventing students with developmental disabilities from actively engaging in learning experiences and pursuing STEM careers. Stakeholders at this conference will include K-12 STEM and Special Education teachers, corporate, government, and non-profit employers, parents, and students with developmental disabilities. The workshop features networking, discussions, and presentations by national experts in the fields of disability studies, STEM education, and workforce development. All meals included, day care available upon request. For more information: Chris Atchison christopher.atchison@uc.edu 513.556.3613 × 01 Aug 2019 Event STEM Accessibility Conference (8/1) Time: August 1, 9:00 AM - 7:00 PM Location: 1819 Innovation Hub Target Audience: Faculty, Students, Staff Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The STEM Accessibility Conference, presented by the University of Cincinnati, is a two-day workshop held August 1 & 2, 2019, and will bring together a community of experts to discuss career pathways in STEM disciplines, and collectively identify and begin to address challenges preventing students with developmental disabilities from actively engaging in learning experiences and pursuing STEM careers. Stakeholders at this conference will include K-12 STEM and Special Education teachers, corporate, government, and non-profit employers, parents, and students with developmental disabilities. The workshop features networking, discussions, and presentations by national experts in the fields of disability studies, STEM education, and workforce development. All meals included, day care available upon request. For more information: Chris Atchison christopher.atchison@uc.edu 513.556.3613 × 31 Jul 2019 Event Fundamentals: Proposal Submission: Grant Review and Award Setup (7/31) Time: July 31, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services Learn about what happens after grants have been submitted - the peer review process, what to expect in advance of a grant receiving funding, and how to get your awards set up and ready to go in a timely and efficient manner. We will discuss "Just In Time" information requests, compliance issues, negotiations, pre-award spending, and final execution of agreements. × 29 Jul 2019 Event Fundamentals: Proposal Submission: Opportunities, Budgets, and Justifications (7/29) Time: July 29, 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services Discover some of the tools available to find opportunities for grant submissions, and how ou can help and work with the faculty in your department to help them locate potential sources of funding. Learn how to help your faculty create effective budgets and budget justifications. Learn about F&A costs, cost shares, subawards, and other key pieces of the budget process. × 29 Jul 2019 Event 2019 AIAA Intelligent Systems Workshop (7/29 - 7/30) Time: July 29, 8:00 AM - July 30, 9:00 PM Location: University of Cincinnati Main Campus Target Audience: Researchers and Students Research Office: Research Development The American Institute for Aeronautics (AIAA) is hosting the 6th annual Intelligent Systems Conference on the University of Cincinnati's campus this July. Topics discussed will include: Human Machine Interaction Vulnerabilities/security of intelligent and autonomous systems Integrating Autonomy into Existing Ecosystems Developing an Intelligent Systems Workforce The conference will also host a lightning talk and poster competition for students including monetary prizes. There is a cost to attend: $150 for standard admission and $35 for students Visit istcws2019.org for more information and to register. × 24 Jul 2019 Event Fundamentals: Proposal Submission Basics (7/24) Time: July 24, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services Learn about the basics of proposals, the different types of applications, the roles of various offices in the submission process, and the keys to helping manage the submission of a successful proposal. Certifications, approvals, review, and submission will be discussed. × 22 Jul 2019 Event Fundamentals: Introduction to Sponsored Administration (7/22) Time: July 22, 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Target Audience: Grant Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services An introduction to the world of sponsored programs. Learn the language and jargon of the field, the history of university-based research, the differences between funding mechanisms, and an overview of the various laws and regulations governing sponsored awards. × 28 Jun 2019 Event Logic Models and Evaluation: A Skill-Building Workshop (6/28) Time: June 28, 9:30 AM - 11:30 AM Location: University Hall - 450 Target Audience: Research Faculty, Staff, Graduate Students, Postdocs Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research In this interactive session, Dr. Liz Litzler from the University of Washington will work with attendees to build their capacity to create a useful logic model that can be used to design and evaluate a project/grant. Logic models are a solid tool to help ensure continuity and achievement of your project goals. The session will also help attendees understand what working with an evaluator can look like and how to set the stage for a strong, productive relationship. Attendees will walk away with a greater level of comfort and confidence about logic models and evaluation as well as some resource handouts. If there is a specific grant proposal/project you would like to work on, please bring those grant proposal/project documents with you! × 27 Jun 2019 Event Logic Models and Evaluation: A Skill-Building Workshop (6/27) Time: June 27, 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Langsam Library - 462 Target Audience: Research Faculty, Staff, Graduate Students, Postdocs Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research In this interactive session, Dr. Liz Litzler from the University of Washington will work with attendees to build their capacity to create a useful logic model that can be used to design and evaluate a project/grant. Logic models are a solid tool to help ensure continuity and achievement of your project goals. The session will also help attendees understand what working with an evaluator can look like and how to set the stage for a strong, productive relationship. Attendees will walk away with a greater level of comfort and confidence about logic models and evaluation as well as some resource handouts. If there is a specific grant proposal/project you would like to work on, please bring those grant proposal/project documents with you! View Handouts Here × 18 Jun 2019 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (6/18) Time: June 18, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who Manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services, Accounting Division. × 07 Jun 2019 Event Overview of the U.S. Department of Energy (6/7) Time: June 7, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Langsam Library - Room 462 Target Audience: Research Faculty, Staff, Graduate Students, Postdocs Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The purpose of the webinar is to provide information on the mission, programs, and priorities of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and how it supports extramural research and development. The presentation will include overviews of DOE’s basic and applied research offices and anticipated funding opportunities, as well as advice on how university researchers can most effectively engage with the agency. Additional information will also be provided on cross-agency initiatives that are guiding investment in new and emerging research areas. Presented By: Ben Kallen is one of Lewis-Burke’s key contacts for federal science policy in the physical sciences. He has led firm-wide and client-specific engagement on emerging federal science priority areas, including quantum information science and space weather research. Ben relies on a keen understanding of agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Department of Energy (DOE), and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to deliver advanced intelligence on forthcoming opportunities and help clients deepen their connections to the federal research and development enterprise. Prior to joining Lewis-Burke, Ben gained experience in legislative affairs as well as science and business advocacy in the office of Senator Barbara Boxer and at the Commercial Spaceflight Federation (CSF), a trade association that promotes the policy interests of the space industry. Through these experiences, Ben developed and honed valuable research and analytical skills while gaining an understanding of the complex political trends affecting national science and education policy. View Handouts Here × 24 Apr 2019 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (4/24) Time: April 24, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/college administrators/staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall Contact Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services, Accounting Division with any questions. × 22 Apr 2019 Event Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase (4/22) Time: April 22, 10:00 AM - 3:30 PM Location: Tangeman University Center Target Audience: Anyone interested in research Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join us for a one-day event where hundreds of students from across the university share new knowledge, new understanding, and creative and technical innovation brought forward through scholarly process. The showcase is free and open to the entire campus community! Organizers are looking for judges for the day-long event April 22, where undergraduate students get practice presenting new knowledge, understanding, and creative and technical innovation. Judges need not have subject matter expertise. Sign-up ends Feb. 15. × 17 Apr 2019 Event Research Support - UC Infrastructure (R) (4/17) Time: April 17, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Experts in three focus areas will be giving presentations followed by a moderated panel discussion with questions from the audience. · The Collaboration Network · Research Computing / Cyberinfrastructure · Community Engagement / Educational Outreach Presenters: Prof. Jack Kues, Director, Center for Improvement Science Prof. Prashant Khare, Chair, Advanced Research Computing Faculty Advisory Committee Jane Combs, UCIT Associate Director Research & Development Prof. Kathie Maynard, Assistant Dean for Innovations & Community Partnerships Moderator: Phil Taylor, OoR Assistant VP Strategic Implementation View Handouts Here × 04 Apr 2019 Event Resolving to Save Lives: Partnerships for the goal of ending the opioid epidemic (4/4) Time: April 4, 3:30 PM - 6:00 PM Location: 1819 Innovation Hub Target Audience: The UC Community Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research This is a moderated panel discussion on the impact of the opioid crisis on families and communities in our region. Our distinguished panelists will also share new initiatives and approaches that are helping bend the arc of this devastating epidemic. The panel will be moderated by Terry DeMio, the Cincinnati Enquirer staff writer who was awarded the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Local Reporting for her moving special report, “Seven Days of Heroin.” DeMio received training at the American Society of Addiction Medication, and she works as a full-time heroin beat reporter for the Cincinnati Enquirer. Our distinguished panelists include: James Canfield, PhD: Assistant Professor at the UC College of Allied Health Sciences, Dr. Canfield’s area of research & practice is focused on the impact of homelessness and poverty on child, youth, families and health disparities. Angela Clark, PhD: Assistant Professor at the UC College of Nursing, Dr. Clark’s research has highlighted the dire need for widespread prevention efforts regarding the opioid overdose epidemic that is plaguing the country. Dr. Clark has ten years of clinical and public health nursing experience and has focused on the identification and treatment of at-risk communities and individuals. Lori Criss: Director of the Ohio Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services, Criss comes to Governor Mike DeWine’s Cabinet with over 20 years of operations and leadership experience with addiction and trauma treatment. Director Criss has extensive experience in policy related to recovery housing, opiate addiction, and integrated physical and behavioral healthcare. Lisbet Hope Portman: VP of Digital Content & Strategy at Addiction Policy Forum, a nonprofit dedicated to eliminated addiction as a major health problem. Ms. Portman has advocated for treatment access and reform as a writer, research, and teacher for over a decade with a focus on science translation and education. J.D. Vance: New York Times Best Selling author who recently returned to his home state of Ohio. Vance, an Investor in Silicon Valley venture capital firm Mithril Capital is also managing partner of the Rise of the Rest Seed Fund, a $150 million early stage venture capital fund. Vance has begun creating his nonprofit, Our Ohio Renewal, to work on the opioid epidemic and other socio-economic challenges that he himself grew up with and that Ohio families face today. × 04 Apr 2019 Event Hutton Ethics Lectureship (4/4) Time: April 4, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Location: MSB E351 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Dr. Benjamin Wilfond will be the Hutton Ethics Lectureship keynote speaker at noon on April 4 and plans to pose a radical question to the UC medical community. He asks: Why does medical research and clinical work have to exist separate from one another? If the approach was reevaluated to include the opinion of patients and include informed consent—think about all that could be accomplished, Wilfond says. He’ll discuss his Research on Medical Practices (ROMP) project, a collaborative effort of Seattle Children’s, the University of Washington and Stanford University. × 01 Apr 2019 Event Research Week 2019 (4/1 - 4/7) Time: April 1, 12:00 AM - April 7, 12:00 AM Location: University of Cincinnati East and West Campuses Target Audience: Everyone Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research R&I Week 2019 will be honoring our past 200 years of extraordinary research by showcasing the impactful, imaginative, and innovative work researchers at UC are doing today. This week-long event is a celebration of inclusivity, innovation and the broad societal impacts the work of our researchers has on Cincinnati, the region, and beyond. This is the bicentennial edition of R&I Week and our opportunity to highlight our commitment to our current and future students and our community. Please join us and for more information, visit our website: http://research.uc.edu/researchweek × 28 Mar 2019 Event Building Your Research Team: Team Science (3/28) Time: March 28, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Medical Science Building, Room 7051 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Forming a research team? Understanding the principles of Team Science can be helpful in selecting team members, developing strategies of operation, becoming more effective, and being more successful with grant applications and project completion. Funders are prioritizing cross-disciplinary research and projects that are able to demonstrate that they are building high-performance teams. Understanding the general area of team science and how to take advantage of tools and strategies to develop research that is translational will make you and your team more competitive and successful. What will be covered: Basic concepts of team science including; what makes a successful team, how to recognize and overcome team dysfunctions, and taking a transdisciplinary approach to research. Presenter: Jack Kues, Director, Evaluation of CCTST and Associate Dean for Continuous Professional Development, UC College of Medicine × 18 Mar 2019 Event Write Winning Grant Proposals Seminar (3/18) Time: March 18, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Lindner Hall, Room 112 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Registration is required and closes March 1st, 2019. Presenter: Dr. John Robertson from Grant Writers' Seminars & Workshops What will be covered: This widely acclaimed seminar comprehensively addresses both practical and conceptual aspects that are important to the proposal-writing process. Emphasis is given to such things as idea development, identification of the most appropriate granting agency, how to write for reviewers, and tips and strategies that are of proven value in presenting an applicant's case to reviewers. Regardless of the agency, participants are taught to write with a linear progression of logic, which leads reviewers through their applications. Strategies designed to merit a fundable priority score are emphasized. There is a $75.00 fee which covers the cost of the participant’s copy of The Grant Application Writer’s Workbook. Participants can select their choice of one workbook focusing on NIH, NSF, USDA/NIFA, or Any Agency (for proposals other than NIH, NSF, or USDA). The workbook begins with refinement of the idea and then systematically progresses through tips and strategies for each section of the proposal, concluding with pre-submission review and writing of the accompanying cover letter. Lunch is provided. Registration is required and closes March 1st, 2019. Parking: Woodside and Campus Green parking garages are easily accessible. Contact Nikki Arde at Nikki.Arde@uc.edu for more information. × 08 Mar 2019 Event Early Career Faculty: Outreach and Education Panel (3/8) Time: March 8, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Medical Sciences Building, Room 7051 Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Join this panel of experts from all over the UC campus to hear of how to partner with them or others for your outreach and education plans associated with Career and Young Investigator proposals. Panelists: Chris Atchison, Associate Professor of Teacher Education, Founder and Executive Director of the International Association for Geoscience Diversity Whitney Gaskins, Assistant Dean of Inclusive Excellence and Community Outreach, CEAS, Founder of the Gaskins Foundation Margaret Kupferle, Associate Professor of Environmental Engineering, PI of current Research Experience for Teachers program Megan Lamkin, Assistant Professor of Experienced Based Learning & Career Education, Director of the UC Research Experience for Undergraduates program Kathie Maynard, Associate Dean of Innovations and Community Partnerships, CECH, Leader of the Greater Cincinnati STEM Collaborative and the UC Scholars Academy Moderator: Teri Reed, Assistant Vice President for Research Development, Office of Research × 08 Mar 2019 Event Early Career Grant Writing Workshop (3/8) Time: March 8, 8:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: UC (Academic Health Center), Medical Sciences Building, MSB 7051 Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies will be here on Friday, March 8 for a basic grant writing workshop focused on early career and/or young investigator grants and is open to all faculty. This workshop is highly interactive and is targeted toward faculty who are ready to, or are considering applying, for early career or young investigator grants within the next few years. The workshop includes a series of discussions about the workshop topics along with some exercises and examples. Materials: Additional materials and resources will be provided to each participant on flash drives. These will include additional background materials, resources, and example sections of successful proposals. Note: Participants are encouraged to bring laptops, iPads, or similar devices for workshop exercises. Special Note: This workshop is followed by a panel on Educational and Outreach Opportunities at UC, located in the same room from Noon to 1:30 pm. × 07 Mar 2019 Event Early Career Grant Writing Workshop (3/7) Time: March 7, 1:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: Carl Blegen Library, Room 308 2602 McMicken Circle Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Lucy Deckard of Academic Funding Research Strategies will be here on Thursday, March 7 for a basic grant writing workshop focused on early career and/or young investigator grant writing and is open to all faculty. This workshop is highly interactive and is targeted toward faculty who are ready to, or are considering applying, for early career or young investigator grants within the next few years. The workshop includes a series of discussions about the workshop topics along with some exercises and examples. Materials: Additional materials and resources will be provided to each participant on flash drives. These will include additional background materials, resources, and example sections of successful proposals. Note: Participants are encouraged to bring laptops, iPads, or similar devices for workshop exercises. Special Note: This workshop is proceeded by a panel session of successful early career faculty who will share tips on how they gained their successes, located in the same room from 11:30 am to 1:00 pm. × 07 Mar 2019 Event Early Career Faculty: Getting Started Panel (3/7) Time: March 7, 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Carl Blegen Library, Room 308 2602 McMicken Circle Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Learn tips for early career and young investigator grant writing from a panel of faculty who have succeeded in these efforts. They will discuss visiting with program officers, early career programs you should consider, how they made early career decisions, and general tips on how they gained their successes. Panelists: Leyla Esfandiari, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Biomedical Engineering Tamara Lorenz, Assistant Professor of Psychology Manish Kumar, Professor of Mechanical Engineering Ashley Paz y Puente, Assistant Professor of Materials Engineering Moderator: Teri Reed, Assistant Vice President for Research Development, Office of Research × 01 Mar 2019 Event Talking to Your Program Officer (3/1) Time: March 1, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: Room 425 Tangeman University Center Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Are you ready to have a conversation with a federal agency program officer but don’t know how to start? Are you interested in learning about how an NIH Study Section works? Having these conversations and understandings are a key step to gaining valuable insight into the funding potential of your ideas. In this interactive session, you’ll learn from faculty who are or have recently worked at major federal agencies or with NIH as they share the do’s and don’t’s of making contact, meeting logistics and follow-up. Plus, you’ll hear their tips on effective ways to talk about your research. What will be covered: Faculty will hear from and network with current and recent federal agency employees such as NSF and NASA and persons associated with NIH study sections to learn tips on interacting with program officers and review committees. They will gain insights to help them effectively communicate their research clearly and concisely. Panelists: Melinda Butsch-Kovacic, Associate Dean and Professor of the College of Allied Health Science, NIH Study Group Member Charles R. Doarn, NASA Research Professor, Family and Community Medicine and Director of Telemedicine, Special Assistant to the NASA Chief Health and Medical Officer Teri Murphy, Professor, Engineering Education, Former NSF IPA of the Division of Undergraduate Education Sheryl Sorby, Professor, Engineering Education, Former NSF IPA of the Division of Undergraduate Education × 08 Feb 2019 Event How to Find Funding Opportunities (R) (2/8) Time: February 8, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 51 Goodman Drive Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you, is important. In this session, you will learn from experts where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders’ interests, missions and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. What will be covered: External funding opportunities available via the federal government, the state of Ohio, the City of Cincinnati, Hamilton County, Foundations, and Industry. Introduction of UC’s grant search engine, InfoED SPIN and limited submissions process at UC. Internal funding opportunities will be briefly covered. Presenters: Susan Dunlap, UCF Associate Director Foundation & Corporation Relations Sarah Clift, Senior Grant Administrator, Office of Research Keisha Love, Associate Provost of Academic Personnel, Office of the Provost Moderators: Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Teri Reed, OoR Assistant Vice President Research Development × 31 Jan 2019 Event Proposal Budgets - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (R) (1/31) Time: January 31, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: University of Cincinnati (West Campus) Tangeman University Center, Room 425 Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, OoR staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. What will be covered: Terminology; Budgeting Basics; Common Pitfalls; Where to go for Help; Examples Presenters: Patrick Clark, OoR Assistant Vice President, Operations & Management Cindy Treacy, Assistant Director - Grants, College of Arts & Sciences × 29 Jan 2019 Event Office of Research Expert Buffet (1/29) Time: January 29, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Tangeman University Center Room 427 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research As the new semester begins, the Office of Research is providing an overview of services and information in an interactive format that we call the Office of Research Expert Buffet. Meet the experts in-person from the following areas during information-packed, moving sessions followed by questions and answers with top institutional leaders and experts who can help you make the most of your research efforts at UC! What will be covered: Topics include the following; • Covering your OARs –Financial disclosures, OARs, and conflicts of interest • Green Light your Research – Institutional Review Board • What is the Difference? – UC Foundation and Sponsored Research Services • Double Your Money – Research Development Service • Keep Calm and Log On – IT and Research • Protect Yourself –Intellectual property and disclosure • Be Our Guest – Core facilities • Beyond Books – UC Libraries Presenters: Holly Bante, UC Assistant VP for Ethics in Industry Engagement Mike Linke, Chair of IRB Committee Angela Braggs-Brown, OoR Director, Human Research Protection Program Patrick Clark, OoR Assistant Vice President Operations & Management Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Jane Combs, UCIT Associate Director Research & Development Geoffrey Pinski, UCTAC Director Office of Technology & Commercialization Phil Taylor, OoR Assistant VP Strategic Implementation Kevin Grace, Head and University Archivist, UC Libraries Moderator: Teri Reed, OoR Assistant Vice President Research Development × 10 Jan 2019 Event DOD 101 – How to Successfully Compete for DOD Funding (1/10) Time: January 10, 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Location: Medical Sciences Building, 6051 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development The event on the East Campus is co-hosted by the Collaborative for Research on Acute Neurological Injuries (CRANI). What will be covered: Dr. Reed Skaggs from Lewis-Burke Associates LLC will provide a “DOD 101” seminar to introduce the Department of Defense (DOD) and National Security related research and development opportunities. The seminar will be an overview of how the DOD is organized, funds science and technology including identification of funding agencies, programs, partnerships, solicitation interpretation, and engagement strategies. Come learn the ins and outs of how to successfully compete for DOD funding for your research. A Q&A session will follow the seminar. View Handouts Here × 10 Jan 2019 Event DOD 101 – How to Successfully Compete for DOD Funding (1/10) Time: January 10, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: West Campus: Langsam Library, Room 462 Target Audience: All faculty, staff, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development What will be covered: Dr. Reed Skaggs from Lewis-Burke Associates LLC will provide a “DOD 101” seminar to introduce the Department of Defense (DOD) and National Security related research and development opportunities. The seminar will be an overview of how the DOD is organized, funds science and technology including identification of funding agencies, programs, partnerships, solicitation interpretation, and engagement strategies. Come learn the ins and outs of how to successfully compete for DOD funding for your research. A Q&A session will follow the seminar. View Handouts Here × 08 Jan 2019 Event The First Annual Community Gathering of Discipline-Based Education Researchers (1/8) Time: January 8, 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM Location: Old Chem, Room 615 West Campus Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and administrators interested in and/or focused on discipline-based education research Research Office: Research Development Please RSVP as lunch will be served (Please send dietary restrictions to teri.reed@uc.edu) Are you engaged in evidence-generating activities in education research? Are you focused on some aspect of the education continuum: discipline-based preK-12 education, undergraduate education, graduate education, teacher education, faculty development, workforce development, etc.? Are you looking for a community of colleagues to advance your research/scholarly efforts? High quality evidence-generating education research combines knowledge of a discipline, the challenges of student success in that discipline and the research of student success, generally. If you identify with this type of research, consider attending the first annual community gathering of discipline-based education research (DBER). This is a networking opportunity to share and learn about other’s interests and expertise with the goal of building future collaborations and developing projects in the DBER area. What will be shared: Time has been allotted to share via a networking exercise participant’s general bio, their research questions or agenda, researcher expertise, and needs. All participants will be expected to create and submit a brief interest and needs sheet (in a template provided at this link) by Friday, January 4 at noon. Once created, please place single sheet using the naming convention shown in the example files or email final sheet to teri.reed@uc.edu. This single sheet will serve as our community building mechanism and will be shared ahead of time to all participants. This will not be a formal presentation, but a small group activity. Organizers: Teri Reed, Assistant Vice President of Research Development, Office of Research Victoria Wangia-Anderson, Associate Professor – Educator and Program Director, Clinical & Health Information Science, College of Allied Health Sciences Teri J. Murphy, Professor of Engineering Education, College of Engineering and Applied Science Jamie Leslie, Assistant Professor – Educator, College of Nursing Kathy Koenig, Associate Professor of Physics, College of Arts and Sciences P.K. Imbrie, Department Head and Professor of Engineering Education, College of Engineering and Applied Science Katie Hobbing, Assistant Professor – Educator, Pharmacology and Systems Physiology, College of Medicine RSVP Tentative Agenda 9:00 – 9:30 a.m. Introduction to a new UC community 9:30 – 11:00 a.m. Speed Dating - Small group introductions using the brief interest and needs sheets 11:00 – 12:00 a.m. Group Dating – Networking Discussions 12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Grab lunch - Discussion of Future Activities of the Community - What was sparked today that you would like to continue and what do you need to continue this community? × 14 Dec 2018 Event Research Administration Portal (RAP) Lab (12/14) Time: December 14, 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Location: Teacher Dyer Complex 231 Target Audience: Principal investigators and their staff Research Office: Human Research Protection Program UC HRPP is moving to the NEW Research Administration Portal (RAP) an electronic system for IRB reviews and approvals. The system will go live on January 14, 2019. Participants will be able to navigate through the system and registration is required. Please contact irb@uc.edu to register. × 13 Dec 2018 Event Research Administration Portal (RAP) Lab (12/13) Time: December 13, 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Edwards I 6152 Target Audience: Principal investigators and their staff Research Office: Human Research Protection Program UC HRPP is moving to the NEW Research Administration Portal (RAP) an electronic system for IRB reviews and approvals. The system will go live on January 14, 2019. Participants will be able to navigate through the system and registration is required. Please contact irb@uc.edu to register. × 12 Dec 2018 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (12/12) Time: December 12, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/college administrators/staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall Contact Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services, Accounting Division with any questions. × 11 Dec 2018 Event Finishing the One Pager: 1-1/2 Day Workshop (12/11 - 12/12) Time: December 11, 9:00 AM - December 12, 1:00 PM Location: Rhodes Hall, Room 801M University of Cincinnati Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Tuesday, December 11, 2018 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. AND Wednesday, December 12, 2018 9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Lunch will be provided on Tuesday. Please email any dietary restrictions to teri.reed@uc.edu by Friday, December 7. Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers your project is a good fit in their portfolio is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, this will be an intensive day and a half workshop with an outcome of a focused white paper for your specific research area(s). This workshop will give you tools you can use to effectively draft white papers going forward. You will also leave the workshop with a proposal summary for your own research, one composed with guidance from writing experts here at UC, and with the benefit of peer-review by fellow workshop attendees What will be covered: This intensive day and a half workshop will focus on writing strategies for a variety of documents, such as a brief response to a request for proposals (RFPs), white papers, letters of inquiry/interest/intent (LOIs), and research abstracts such as a Specific Aims page. The sessions will include small group activities and one-on-one interactions with workshop facilitators. Participants should bring a draft of a project they are currently working on, even if it is in bullet format. Presenters: Lora Arduser, A&S Associate Professor, Professional Writing Bob Hyland, A&S Assistant Professor-Educator, Rhetoric and Professional Writing × 11 Dec 2018 Event Labor Verification Training (12/11) Time: December 11, 8:30 AM - 11:30 AM Location: UHall 444 Target Audience: Anyone interested in learning more about Labor Verification Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Government Cost Compliance Department will be offering Labor Verification Training on December 11, 2018 from 8:30am – 11:30am. Instructor led training will be offered from 8:30am – 9:30am. This training session will cover the entire Labor Verification process. Training will include how to access and approve statements in UCFlex and view pending or upcoming statements, and how to utilize Labor Verification reporting tools to help manage Labor Verification Statements. Between the hours of 9:30am – 11:30am there will be an open lab for individualized training. During the time our staff will be available to sit with you and provide one on one training. You can come by anytime during the open lab for personalized training. There is a limited amount of spots for the instructor lead training. Please RSVP by December 5, 2018 to reserve you spot for the instructor lead training that will be held between 8:30am – 9:30am. × 10 Dec 2018 Event Arts & Humanities in the Age of Impact (12/10) Time: December 10, 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Location: DAAP 8220, Materials Library Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Have you received or are interested in NEH funding, have written proposals, and/or are interested in the national agenda concerning Humanities funding? This is an opportunity for you. Please consider attending this session as it is an excellent opportunity for us all to hear from the new Dean of CCM and NHA perspectives as well as about projects, goals and forecast as related the humanities. Presenters: Dean Stanley Romanstein, College Conservatory-Music Cecily Erin Hill, Program Director, National Humanities Alliance Moderator: Jennifer Krivickas, Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Lunch provided - please email teri.reed@uc.edu with any dietary restrictions. × 07 Dec 2018 Event UC HRPP Open House (12/7) Time: December 7, 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: University Hall (Suite 610) Target Audience: All researchers engaged in human subjects research at the University of Cincinnati Research Office: Human Research Protection Program Get questions answered, meet office staff and IRB members in addition to viewing more of the new system. We will also celebrate 18 years of service from Claudia Norman, who is retiring in December. × 06 Dec 2018 Event Research Administration Portal (RAP) Lab (12/6) Time: December 6, 2:30 PM - 4:30 PM Location: MSB E602 Target Audience: Principal investigators and their staff Research Office: Human Research Protection Program UC HRPP is moving to the NEW Research Administration Portal (RAP) an electronic system for IRB reviews and approvals. The system will go live on January 14, 2019. Participants will be able to navigate through the system and registration is required. Please contact irb@uc.edu to register. × 03 Dec 2018 Event Research Administration Portal (RAP) Demonstration (12/3) Time: December 3, 12:30 PM - 2:30 PM Location: MSB 3051 Target Audience: Principal investigators and their staff Research Office: Human Research Protection Program UC HRPP is moving to the NEW Research Administration Portal (RAP) an electronic system for IRB reviews and approvals. The system will go live on January 14, 2019. This event is only a demonstration of the system (for hands-on training, please refer to the in-person lab sessions). Please contact irb@uc.edu with any questions. × 30 Nov 2018 Event How to Work with Local and State Governments (11/30) Time: November 30, 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Tangeman University Center, Room 425 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Are you interested in learning how to get started working with state and local government entities? Would you like to learn from researchers who have already had success working with state and local government agencies? Want to learn how our government relations staff help faculty navigate government entities and develop relationships with the right individuals in office? If yes was the answer to any of these questions, this is the forum for you. Come meet successful researchers, government relations staff, and individuals who work for the City of Cincinnati. Presenters: Oliver Kroner, Green Cincinnati Plan and Sustainability Coordinator, Office of Environment and Sustainability, City of Cincinnati Jiaqi Ma, Assistant Professor of Civil and Architectural Engineering, CEAS Mark Policinski, CEO, OKI (Ohio Kentucky Indiana) Regional Council of Governments Margie Rolf, Associate Vice President, Governmental Relations Amanda Webb, Assistant Professor of Civil and Architectural Engineering, CEAS Moderator: Jennifer Krivickas, Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Register Here × 15 Nov 2018 Event Lunch & Learn - Dr. James P. Canfield "The Millennial Professor" (11/15) Time: November 15, 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM Location: University Hall, Rm. 610 Target Audience: Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Dr. James P. Canfield aka “The Millennial Professor” is an expert in childhood and familial homelessness and poverty. His research has impacted actions across our country. In addition to impacting the US he has worked with other countries about issues related to homelessness and poverty. Please join us at the Office of Research Lunch and Learn (lunch provided), to hear from the investigator who says “at the end of the day, my work is the science and art of being a real-world superhero: get cape, wear cape, fly.” **Please be sure to register as we need a head count for lunch** Thank You! × 14 Nov 2018 Event Working with Industry and Foundations (11/14) Time: November 14, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development This introduction to funding through industry and foundation avenues will be in a panel format. Join us to hear from faculty who have been successful at securing funding from industry and foundations. In addition, hear from companies and foundations who fund UC research. Learn what makes for a successful grant and long-term relationship through these paths to funding. What will be covered: Resources available to support efforts through industry research and foundations. Presenters: Deepika Andavarapu, Research and Evaluation Officer, The Greater Cincinnati Foundation Eric Avner, CEO, People’s Liberty Susan Dunlap, UC Foundation Associate Director Foundation & Corporation Relations Heather L. Norton, Associate Professor - Department of Anthropology, Co-Director - UC WISE-REWU Program, Faculty Director - UC Skin Science and Technology Collaborative Aretha Adams, Senior Grants Administrator Moderator: Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research RSVP × 08 Nov 2018 Event How to Navigate the IRB doing SBER (11/8 - 11/9) Time: November 8, 10:30 PM - November 9, 12:00 AM Location: Tangeman University Center, Room 400A Target Audience: Faculty, staff and students interested in Social-BEhavioral Research (SBER) Research Office: Research Development What is social-behavioral research (SBER) and how does it differ from biomedical research? What kinds of data collection methods are often used to do SBER? What are the biggest challenges when submitting your SBER to the IRB? What will be covered: This session will address these questions and offer some strategies for how to improve your SBER submission to the IRB, avoiding common pitfalls. Presenters: John Holden, Associate Professor of Psychology Jacinda Dariotis, Professor and Director of the Evaluation Services Center Janet Moore, Professor of Law Moderator: Claudia Norman, Education and Outreach Specialist in UC’s Human Research and Protection Program View Handouts Here × 01 Nov 2018 Event Research Support - UC Infrastructure (11/1) Time: November 1, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: Tangeman University Center, Room 427 Target Audience: All faculty and research staff including graduate students and post-docs are invited to attend. Recent and new faculty hires are specifically encouraged to attend. Research Office: Research Development Experts in four focus areas will be giving presentations followed by a moderated panel discussion with questions from the audience. Pre- and Post-award Support Research Computing/Cyberinfrastructure Core Facilities Programming/Data Management/Informatics Presenters: Ted Baldwin, Director, Science and Engineering Libraries, CEAS Sarah Clift, OoR Grants Administrator 2 Jane Combs, UCIT Associate Director Research & Development Tiffany Grant, Interim, Assistant Director of Research and Informatics, Health Sciences Library Melodie Fickenscher, Director, Advanced Materials Characterization Center Cindy Treacy, A&S, Senior Grants Administrator Moderator: Phil Taylor, OoR Assistant VP Strategic Implementation × 30 Oct 2018 Event Building Your Research Team: Undergrads, Graduate Students and Postdocs (10/30) Time: October 30, 3:30 PM - 5:00 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Forming a research team? Looking for undergraduate researchers? Graduate Students? Postdocs? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. What will be covered: Resources available for undergraduate researchers, graduate students and postdoc staff will be highlighted. Faculty will discuss how to create a lab/research team plan. Presenters: Dr. Chip Montrose, Dean of Graduate School Dr. James Mack, Associate Dean of Graduate School Dr. Megan Lamkin, Director of Undergraduate Research Experiences Dr. Teri Reed, OoR Assistant VP Research Development View Handouts Here × 25 Oct 2018 Event Writing the One Pager: The Shortest Path to Success (10/25) Time: October 25, 4:00 PM - 5:30 PM Location: Baldwin Hall, Room 661 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. What will be covered: Participants will gain insights into the persuasive nature of successful one-pagers, and be better able to write one for both specialized and non-specialized audiences. Presenters: Lora Arduser, A&S Associate Professor, Professional Writing Bob Hyland, A&S Assistant Professor-Educator, Rhetoric and Prof Writing View Handouts Here × 19 Oct 2018 Event INTERNAL FUNDING @ UC (10/19) Time: October 19, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: University Hall, Room 450 51 Goodman St. Cincinnati, OH Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Get to know UC Program Officers (PO) and gain valuable insight into UC’s internal opportunities! Get the low-down on internal funding from POs of Office of Research internal funding opportunities. In this session, the POs will disclose details about internal funding programs and lead a discussion about the value of internal funding (beyond money). Participants will gain concrete information, examples, and advice which will give them A LEG UP. The call for these opportunities is now available at research.uc.edu…. What will be covered: UC Internal Programs sponsored by the Office of Research; Information about how internal funding helps faculty gain skills and momentum that increases chances for external funding, Discussion will cover communication issues such as how to communicate with an internal program officer, how to convey the value and impact of your research, and the value of framing your proposal to show alignment with UC strategic goals and directions. Presenters: OoR Program Officer Phil Taylor, Office of Research Assistant Vice President, Strategic Initiatives URC Program Officer John Cuppoletti, CoM Professor Emeritus, Physiology Moderator: OoR & URC Program Officer Jennifer Krivickas, Office of Research Assistant Vice President, Integrated Research & Adjunct Instructor, DAAP School of Design × 17 Oct 2018 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (10/17) Time: October 17, 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/college administrators/staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall Contact Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services, Accounting Division with any questions. × 09 Oct 2018 Event PROPOSAL BUDGETS - More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (10/9) Time: October 9, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: University Hall, Room 454 Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, OoR staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. We will review a sample project and walk through the process of creating a budget for that process in a workshop format. This will be followed by a Q&A where the presenters will be available to discuss any specific areas of interest to the audience, and answer any questions. What will be covered: Terminology; Budgeting Basics; Common Pitfalls; Where to go for Help Presenters: Patrick Clark, OoR Assistant Vice President Operations & Management View Handouts Here × 02 Oct 2018 Event Preparing Proposals in Response to the Collaborative Advancement Grant Program – Strategic Teams (10/2) Time: October 2, 1:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: 462 Langsam Target Audience: Researchers Research Office: Research Development Advanced registration required; each registrant must provide a list of federal agencies of interest Program 1:00-2:00 pm; Presenter: Lewis Burke and Associates (webinar); Title: Engagement with Federal Funding Agencies for Multidisciplinary Funding Opportunities 2:15-3:15 pm; Presenters: Suzanne Boyce, Mike Riley, Doug Mast, and Sarah Hamilton; Title: Grant Writing in Response to the Collaborative Advancement Grant Program – Strategic Teams 3:30-4:00 pm; Presenter: Jack Kues; Title: Team Science and Collaborative Training View Handouts Here × 01 Oct 2018 Event Collaborative Research Advancement Grants Program - Track 1: Pilot Teams Informational Session (10/1) Time: October 1, 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Tangeman University Center, Room 400A Target Audience: All faculty interested in the Office of Research Collaborative Research Advancement Grants Program – Track 1: Pilot Teams Research Office: Research Development Are you considering applying for internal funding via the Office of Research Collaborative Research Advancement Grants Program – Track 1: Pilot Teams but you’re not sure if your eligible, if your team is the ‘right kind of team’, and/or if your project is ‘the right kind of project’? Come to this informational session and learn all there is to know about the Pilot program including answers to the above (and more), how to use the new system, and the review process and timeline. What will be covered: Persons attending will learn about the new submission system, walk through the RFP, the review process and timeline. You will hear from the program officer as to things learned from past submissions. This is not for individual investigators, this is for teams from at least two or more distinct colleges. A successful past proposal will be discussed. Only for those interested in the Office of Research Collaborative Research Advancement Grants Program – Track 1: Pilot Teams. Discussant: Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President, Integrated Research × 27 Sep 2018 Event How to Find Funding Opportunities (9/27) Time: September 27, 1:30 PM - 3:00 PM Location: UC Campus Recreation Center, Room 3230 Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development What will be covered: External funding opportunities available via the federal government, the state of Ohio, the City of Cincinnati & Hamilton County, Foundations, and Industry. Introduction of UC’s grant search engine, InfoED SPIN and limited submissions process at UC. Internal funding opportunities will be briefly covered. Presenters: Susan Dunlap, UCF Associate Director Foundation & Corporation Relations Sara Guice, Skin Science and Technology Collaborative, Director Business Development (…and other UC Faculty/Staff) Moderators: Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Teri Reed, OoR Assistant Vice President Research Development × 21 Sep 2018 Event National Postdoc Appreciation Week Career Symposium (9/21) Time: September 21, 11:45 AM - 3:30 PM Location: 5051 MSB Target Audience: Postdocs and Visiting Assistant Professors Research Office: Research Development BY INVITATION ONLY - POSTDOCS AND VISITING ASSISTANT PROFESSORS 11:45 am - Lunch 12:00 noon to 1:00 pm - Keynote Speaker "8 Things You Should Know about Biopharma" Rachel Cervantes, PhD, MBA Vice President, Business Development Synthetic Genomics, Inc 1:15 - 2:15 pm - Additional Workshops Intellectual Property and Entrepreneurship Mini Grant Writing Workshop 2:30 - 3:30 pm - One-on-One CV/Resume Review Sessions × 29 Aug 2018 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (8/29) Time: August 29, 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Cincinnati, OH Target Audience: Department/college administrators/staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall Contact Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services, Accounting Division with any questions. × 17 Aug 2018 Event New Faculty Orientation (8/17) Time: August 17, 9:30 AM - 6:00 PM Location: Langsam Library Digital Commons Target Audience: New Faculty Research Office: Research Development Orientation for faculty new to the University of Cincinnati family. The Office of Research will host panels during the Expert Buffet at 1:00 PM and during the Deep Dives into the Office of Research Support sessions at 3:15. Pat Limbach, the Vice President of Research, present closing comments at 4:45. View Handouts Here × 15 Aug 2018 Event Ohio Conference on Freight (8/15 - 8/17) Time: August 15, 12:00 PM - August 17, 2:00 PM Location: Hilton Cincinnati Netherland Plaza Target Audience: Anyone interested in the movement of freight in Ohio and the Midwest Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Ohio Conference on Freight is the Midwest’s leading freight conference, convening over 300 professionals from across North America to share their expertise in the areas of supply chain/logistics, smart transportation technology and federal and state policies supporting freight-related transportation and economic development. The day-and-a half conference consists of four Plenary sessions and 12 Breakout sessions covering the latest topics, tools and trends in the world of freight today. Why Attend? Learn: Hear firsthand about current issues, challenges and solutions that are shaping freight transportation today. Network: Meet old friends, renew acquaintances and build new relationships to further your professional and personal goals. Apply: Take the new ideas and tools you discover at the conference to address your specific freight issues and goals. × 28 Jun 2018 Event SRS Quarterly Business Adminstrator Meeting (6/28) Time: June 28, 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM Location: 427 Engineering Research Center Target Audience: All UC College and Unit Business Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This meeting is cancelled. Please contact John Ungruhe if any questions. × 27 Jun 2018 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (6/27) Time: June 27, 12:30 PM - 4:30 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall. Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services Office, Accounting Department × 20 Jun 2018 Event SBIR/STTR Road Tour (6/20) Time: June 20, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: The Ohio Union at Ohio State University Target Audience: Innovators, Entrepreneurs, Researchers, and/or Small Technology Firms Research Office: Research Development The SBIR Road Tour is a national outreach effort to convey the non-dilutive technology funding opportunity provided through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. The SBIR/STTR programs annually provide $2.5 billion in funding to small advanced technology firms to spur new technological discoveries and facilitate the commercialization of innovations. Together they represent America's Largest Seed Fund. Local innovation supporters in communities who have historically underutilized the opportunities provided through the SBIR/STTR programs have invited representatives of America's Largest Seed Fund to engage the small advanced technology community, including women and minority-owned research and development businesses. Every SBIR Road Tour stop represents a coveted opportunity to meet directly with Federal and State Program Managers who seed a wide spectrum of innovative ideas, while learning about your state sponsored innovation support infrastructure. So, if you're an Innovator, Entrepreneur, Researcher, or Small Technology Firm, don't miss this opportunity! × 07 Jun 2018 Event Research Integrity and You: Insights from the HHS Office of Research Integrity (6/7) Time: June 7, 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Medical Sciences Building, Room 4051 (MSB 4051) Target Audience: Anyone involved in, or associated with, clinical, translational, and basic research including PIs, trainees, research and administrative staff. Research Office: Office of Research Integrity Join Scott Moore, Ph.D., J.D., C.F.E, Deputy Director of the U.S. Dept. of Health & Human Services' Office of Research Integrity, in a seminar on research integrity. Objectives: Define Research Misconduct and describe its impact Identify tools to detect research misconduct Understand the mandate for responsible conduct of research training Describe the potential consequences of research misconduct For more information or to meet with Dr. Moore, please contact Dr. Jane Strasser (Jane.Strasser@uc.edu). × 26 Apr 2018 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (4/26) Time: April 26, 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall. Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services Office, Accounting Department × 26 Apr 2018 Event Second Annual Smart Cincy Summit (4/26) Time: April 26, 9:00 AM - 12:30 PM Location: Union Hall Target Audience: Any researcher Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Second Annual Smart Cincy Summit will highlight smart cities projects and leaders in Greater Cincinnati, and explore the potentials of Connected, Autonomous, and Electric Vehicles as the Cincinnati region continues its digital transformation. There will be welcome remarks from local elected officials, a keynote speaker focused on smart mobility, and two panel sessions exploring the pillars of smart city planning. Following the program, guests are invited to attend the leadership luncheon where awards to local smart cities leaders will be presented. × 19 Apr 2018 Event Talking to Your Program Officer (4/19) Time: April 19, 2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Location: 400C Tangeman University Center Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers Research Office: Research Development Are you ready to have a conversation with a federal agency program officer but don’t know how to start? Having this conversation is a key step to gaining valuable insight into the funding potential of your ideas. In this interactive session, you’ll learn from faculty who have recently worked at major federal agencies as they share the do’s and don’t’s of making contact, meeting logistics and follow-up. Plus, you’ll hear their tips on effective ways to talk about your research. Presenters: Charles R. Doarn, NASA Research Professor, Family and Community Medicine and Director of Telemedicine, Special Assistant to the NASA Chief Health and Medical Officer Alex Lentsch, CoM Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs & Development and Professor and Vice Chair for Research in Surgery, Former chairman of the NIH Hepatobiliary Pathophysiology Study Section Teri Murphy, Professor, Engineering Education, Former NSF IPA of the Division of Undergraduate Education Contact Heather Geers with any questions See slides from presentation × 09 Apr 2018 Event Research and Innovation Week 2018 (4/9 - 4/14) Time: April 9, 12:00 AM - April 14, 12:00 AM Location: University of Cincinnati Target Audience: Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research Our 2018 theme, Industry, innovation, and infrastructure for enhanced well-being and livelihoods, closely aligns with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals, speaks broadly to the issues important to our region, and ties to UC’s Strategic Directions.More Information × 28 Mar 2018 Event SRS Quarterly Business Adminstrator Meeting (3/28) Time: March 28, 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Vontz Auditorium Target Audience: All UC College and Unit Business Administrators Research Office: Sponsored Research Services A discussion on current topics and issues affecting sponsored research administration at UC Agenda: Patrick Clark the Assistant Vice President of Research Operations and Management will begin the meeting. John Ungruhe from SRS's accounting division will discuss: The new DHHS salary cap and total professional effort New U.G. purchasing thresholds The ongoing NSF audit Amanda Wright from SRS's grants and contracts division will discuss: Forms-E NSF proposals and research.gov AOR recap Ashley Valor from UC's human resources office will discuss Be Well UC intiatives Sarah Clift from the Office of Research's office of Professional Developement will discuss proposal development initiatives Ketaki Mhaisekar from the Office of Research's IT departement will give you Research How 2 navigation tips. × 21 Mar 2018 Event UC Accelerator: Process, Opportunities, and Mini-Workshop (3/21) Time: March 21, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Location: 350 Dyer Hall Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers Research Office: Research Development This session will cover general information on invention disclosures, intellectual property, licensing, Accelerator awards, and entrepreneurial training. Didactic training designed to show faculty how to develop their actual ideas or invention into a legitimate commercialization play is a core part of this presentation. Please register by March 16th if possible. Presenters: Geoffrey Pinski, UCTAC Director Office of Technology & Commercialization David Cepoi, UCTAC Director, Accelerator Training & Awards Moderator: Teri Reed, OoR Assistant VP Research Development Questions? Contact Heather Geers (513) 558-0026. View Presentation Here × 21 Mar 2018 Event Internal Funding Opportunities (3/21) Time: March 21, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: 3240 Campus Recreation Center Target Audience: All faculty Research Office: Research Development What will be covered: This panel will engage the audience in a dialogue about why faculty should care about internal funding and how internal funding helps faculty gain skills and momentum increasing chances for external funding. They will offer stories from their experience as former reviewers, program chairs and officers, internal and external funding awardees, and etc. Discussants will cover communication issues such as how to communicate with an internal program officer, how to convey the value and impact of your research, and the value of framing your proposal to show alignment with UC strategic goals and directions. Presenters: Amy Farley, CECH Assistant Professor, Education Policy in Educational Leadership John Hancock, DAAP Professor, Architectural History Todd Herzog, A&S Professor & Department Head, German Studies/Director of Center for Film and Media Studies Howard Jackson, A&S Professor, Physics David Niven, A&S Assistant Professor, Political Science Michael Zaretsky, DAAP Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs Moderator: Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President, Integrated Research × 26 Feb 2018 Event Communicating your Research: A Workshop (2/26) Time: February 26, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: Swift Hall Room 800 Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers Research Office: Research Development What will be Covered: Best practices for research storytelling, public speaking tips and tricks, improv as a path toward better research communication, tailoring your message to your audience and more. In this two-hour workshop, you’ll spend time on your own and in small groups drafting, honing and practicing how to communicate key aspects of your research to a variety of audiences. Emphasis is on conversations, though you will spend some time writing as well. View Handout Here × 20 Feb 2018 Event Best Practices in Grants Management (2/20) Time: February 20, 12:30 PM - 4:30 PM Location: 454 University Hall Target Audience: Department/College Administrators/Staff who manage grants and contracts Research Office: Sponsored Research Services This training is geared toward individuals responsible for managing anticipated and awarded grants and contracts in the UC Flex accounting system. Topics include: Manual A323 Preparation, Best Practices in Grant Management, and Cost Transfer Training. Cost Transfer Training is required before submitting any cost transfer requests to PI’s for approval or Reallocation Requests to SRS Accounting Grant Administrators for processing. Occurs Every Other Month in University Hall. Cindy Lasonczyk, Sponsored Research Services Office, Accounting Department × 25 Jan 2018 Event Proposal Development - UC Infrastructure (1/25) Time: January 25, 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Location: 450 University Hall Target Audience: Faculty Research Office: Research Development Experts in four focus areas will be giving presentations followed by a moderated panel discussion with questions from the audience. Pre and Post-award Support Research Computing Core Facilities Educational Outreach / Community Engagement Presenters: Sarah Clift, OoR Grants Administrator 2 Jane Combs, UCIT Associate Director Research & Development Melodie Fickenscher, CEAS Research Associate Ken Greis, CoM Associate Dean Erin Haynes, CoM Associate Professor, Environmental Health Kathie Maynard, CECH Asst Dean/Asst Prof-Research Innovations & Community Carol Ross, CEAS Associate Director, Pre-Award Office Moderator: Phil Taylor, OoR Assistant VP Strategic Implementation View Handouts Here × 16 Jan 2018 Event Proposal Budgets: More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (Spring 2018) (1/16) Time: January 16, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: 400B Tangeman University Center Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, Office of Research staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. The brief presentation will be followed by a Q&A, where business staff from the OoR and around the University will be available to discuss specific areas of interest to faculty, and answer any questions. What will be covered: Key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance Presenters: Joanna Bordenave, CoM Senior Grant Administrator Patrick Clark, OoR Assistant Vice President Operations & Management Amy Townsend-Small, A&S Associate Professor, Geology Cindy Treacy, A&S Senior Grant Administrator, Pre-Award Services Simon Tremblay, CoM Assistant Research Professor View Handouts Here × 10 Jan 2018 Event How to Find Funding Opportunities (Spring 2018) (1/10) Time: January 10, 2:45 PM - 4:00 PM Location: 400A Tangeman University Center Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you, is important. In this 90-minute session, you will learn, from two panels of experts, where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders interests, mission and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. What will be covered: Internal funding opportunities offered annually by the Office of the Vice President for Research, College of Medicine, the CCTST, and the Office of the Provost. External funding opportunities available via the federal government, the state of Ohio, the City of Cincinnati & Hamilton County, Foundations, and Industry. Introduction of UC’s grant search engine, InfoED SPIN and limited submissions process at UC. Presenters: Susan Dunlap, UCF Associate Director Foundation & Corporation Relations Sara Guice, UCRI Director Business Development Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Keisha Love, UC Associate Provost Faculty Development and Special Initiatives Teri Reed, OoR Assistant Vice President Economic Development Amy Short, CCTST Administrative Director Continuing Medical Education View Handouts × 10 Jan 2018 Event Office of Research Expert Buffet (1/10) Time: January 10, 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM Location: 400A Tangeman University Center Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research As the new semester begins, the Office of Research is providing an overview of services and information in an interactive format that we call the Office of Research Expert Buffet. Sate you appetite for research must-haves during information-packed, moving sessions followed by questions and answers with top institutional leaders who can help you make the most of your research efforts at UC! What will be covered: Topics include the following: Covering your OARs –Financial disclosures, OARs, and conflicts of interest Green Light your Research – Institutional Review Board Partner with Panache – Industry Collaborations with the UCRI What is the Difference? – UC Foundation and Sponsored Research Services Double Your Money – Internal funding from the Office of Research Keep Calm and Log On – IT and Research Protect Yourself –Intellectual property and disclosure Be Our Guest – Core facilities Beyond Books – UC Libraries Presenters: Holly Bante, UC Assistant VP for Ethics in Industry Engagement Mike Linke, Chair of IRB Committee Angela Braggs-Brown, OoR Director, Human Research Protection Program Sara Guice, UCRI Director Partnerships & Industry Alliances Julie Collinsworth, UCRI Project Manager Patrick Clark, OoR Assistant Vice President Operations & Management Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Jane Combs, UCIT Associate Director Research & Development Amy Latessa, UCIT Research Coordinator, Research & Development Geoffrey Pinski, UCTAC Director Office of Technology & Commercialization Phil Taylor, OoR Assistant VP Strategic Implementation Gino Pasi, UC Associate Librarian, Health Sciences Library Moderator: Teri Reed, OoR Assistant Vice President Research Development × 01 Dec 2017 Event Conflicts, Startups and You: What Ethical Considerations and University Rules you Need to Keep in Mind When Starting a Company (12/1) Time: December 1, 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: 400A Tangeman University Center Target Audience: Faculty, staff and students interested in startups and entrepreneurial affairs Research Office: Office for Ethics in Industry Engagement This session will provide a roadmap for launching entrepreneurial initiatives while also considering institutional responsibilities and other ethical considerations that may be impacted by commercialization activities. Ethical considerations and strategies to manage potential conflicts of interest will be offered and discussed. Presenters: Holly Bante, UC Assistant VP for Ethics in Industry Engagement Geoffrey Pinski, UCTAC Director Office of Technology & Commercialization View Handouts Here × 28 Nov 2017 Event How to Work with Program Officers (11/28) Time: November 28, 8:30 AM - 10:00 AM Location: Vontz Rieveschl Auditorium Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers Research Office: Research Development Are you ready to have a conversation with a federal agency program officer but don’t know how to start? Having this conversation is a key step to gaining valuable insight into the funding potential of your ideas. In this interactive session, you’ll learn from faculty who have recently worked at major federal agencies as they share the do’s and don’t’s of making contact, meeting logistics and follow-up. Plus, you’ll hear their tips on effective ways to talk about your research. What will be covered: Faculty will hear from and network with recent federal agency employees and a communication expert to learn tips on interacting with program officers. They will gain skills to help them effectively communicate their research clearly and concisely. Presenters: Richard Harknett, A&S Professor and Department Head, Political Science (former Department of Energy IPA) Teri Murphy, CEAS Professor, Engineering Education (former NSF IPA) Elissa Yancey, OoR Communication Consultant Questions? Contact Heather Geers (513) 558-0026. View Handouts Here × 17 Nov 2017 Event Working With Industry (11/17) Time: November 17, 8:30 AM - 10:00 AM Location: 850 Dyer Hall Target Audience: Research Office: Research Development The University of Cincinnati Research Institute (UCRI) was created to advance industrial sponsorship of research and development activities of the University of Cincinnati (UC) faculty, students, researchers and staff. An introduction to industry-sponsored research on UC's campus: how faculty, researchers, students and industry can effectively collaborate on research projects which deliver optimal outcomes for all stakeholders. × 31 Oct 2017 Event Communicating your Research - Impact and Significance (10/31) Time: October 31, 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Location: 755 Baldwin Hall Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers Research Office: Research Development Do you know what grantmakers look for when deciding what research to fund? The answers might not be what you think. Showing grantmakers that you know what they want is as important as showing them what you can do with their money. To learn how to effectively communicate the impact and significance of your research through the written word and visuals, we will workshop two white papers, one for a technical audience and one for a non-specialized audience. You will leave with tools you can use to effectively draft white papers and proposal summaries for your own research. What will be covered: Faculty will gain the tools to create and practice critiquing two white papers; one for a general audience using layman’s terms and one for a technical audience. Presenters: Lora Arduser, A&S Associate Professor, English & Comparative Literature Bob Hyland, A&S Assistant Professor-Educator, Rhetoric and Prof Writing Elissa Yancey, OoR Communications Consultant View Handouts Here × 26 Oct 2017 Event How to Form Research Teams (10/26) Time: October 26, 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Location: University Hall Room 454 Target Audience: New and continuing faculty researchers Research Office: Research Development Forming a research team? Looking for collaborators? Creating successful research teams can be one of the most important activities for faculty. Identifying appropriate team members, from co-investigators and collaborators to graduate or undergraduate students to postdocs, can be challenging. As you pursue innovative, translational projects that push the boundaries of established fields, departments, and institutions, this session will provide you with tips on how to form and maintain positive team relationships over the life of a laboratory or research grant. What will be covered: Faculty will create a lab/research team plan. Presenters: Chip Montrose, Dean of Graduate School Teri Reed, OoR Assistant VP Research Development Amy Short, CCTST Administrative Director Center for Improvement Science View Handouts Here × 25 Oct 2017 Event Smart Regions Conference (10/25) Time: October 25, 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Location: Target Audience: Those desiring to see the technological advancements of modern day Research Office: Office of the Vice President for Research The Office of Research has partnered with the regional smart cities initiative, to sponsor the upcoming the Smart Regions Conference being held on Oct 24 & 25 at the BB&T Arena in Northern Kentucky. This is the first regional IoT showcase and expo where together, we are going to showcase UC researchers (and student) work alongside other area researchers' work and Industry-born technologies. For details about the conference, please go to: Smart Regions Conference site In brief, there will be a tech expo, drone and quadcopter races, thought leadership breakout sessions, and a showcasing of regional collaborations. The conference will be attended by public officials, academic and industry experts and leaders, and community leaders committed to technology as a tool to improve outcomes for people. The Office of Research has made this investment to encourage UC faculty and student participation. Because we are sponsors, it will be free for our students and faculty. This is a GREAT way for faculty and students to network and develop relationships with researchers outside UC, government officials, community leaders, and industry leaders in the IoT space. × 18 Oct 2017 Event Proposal Development - UC Infrastructure (10/18) Time: October 18, 2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Location: 427 Tangeman University Center Target Audience: All faculty and research staff including graduate students and post-docs invited to attend. Recent and new faculty hires are specifically encouraged to attend. Research Office: Research Development Experts in six focus areas will be participating in a moderated interactive panel discussion with attendees. Grant Opportunities / Grant Writing Research Computing / Libraries Core Facilities / IRB / IACUC Broader Impacts / Educational Outreach / Community Engagement Working in Teams Intellectual Property / Research Commercialization What will be covered: Key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance Presenters: Suzanne Boyce, CAHS Research Officer/Professor Comm Sci/Disorders Sarah Clift, OoR Grants Administrator 2 Jane Combs, UCIT Associate Director Research & Development Jason Heikenfeld, 1819 IH Assistant VP Tech Transfer & Commercialization Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant VP Integrated Research Jack Kues, CoM Professor Emeritus/Associate Dean Continuous Prof Devel Kathie Maynard, CECH Asst Dean/Asst Prof-Research Innovations & Community Jane Strasser, OoR Associate VP Research Integrity Phil Taylor, OoR Assistant VP Strategic Implementation Cindy Treacy, A&S Senior Grant Administrator View Handouts Here × 12 Oct 2017 Event Proposal Budgets: More Than Just a Bunch of Numbers (10/12) Time: October 12, 1:00 AM - 2:30 AM Location: University Hall Room 454 Target Audience: Early career research faculty and researchers Research Office: Research Development Preparing and managing a grant proposal budget can be challenging. In this presentation, Office of Research staff will highlight some key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance. The brief presentation will be followed by a Q&A, where business staff from the OoR and around the University will be available to discuss specific areas of interest to faculty, and answer any questions. What will be covered: Key information on the basics of budgeting, the available tools, and most importantly where to turn for assistance Presenters: Joanna Bordenave, CoM Senior Grant Administrator Patrick Clark, OoR Assistant Vice President Operations & Management Sarah Clift, OoR Grant Administrator 2 Shannon Doyle, DAAP Associate Director Business Affairs Sandy McGeorge, A&S Business Manager Carol Ross, CEAS Senior Grant Administrator Amanda Wright, OoR Senior Grant Administrator View Handouts Here × 09 Sep 2017 Event How to Find Funding Opportunities (9/9) Time: September 9, 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Location: Target Audience: All faculty, post-docs, and research administrators Research Office: Research Development Whatever your scholarly goals, knowing how to discover internal and external opportunities and the funders most likely to support you, is important. In this 90-minute session, you will learn, from two panels of experts, where to locate information on funding, both internal and external, and gain knowledge and skills that will help you find information about funders interests, mission and perspectives, to gain the required knowledge to win funding from them. What will be covered: Internal funding opportunities offered annually by the Office of the Vice President for Research, College of Medicine, the CCTST, and the Office of the Provost. External funding opportunities available via the federal government, the state of Ohio, the City of Cincinnati & Hamilton County, Foundations, and Industry. Introduction of UC’s grant search engine, InfoED SPIN and limited submissions process at UC. Presenters: Susan Dunlap, UCF Associate Director Foundation & Corporation Relations Sara Guice, UCRI Director Business Development Jennifer Krivickas, OoR Assistant Vice President Integrated Research Keisha Love, UC Associate Provost Faculty Development and Special Initiatives Teri Reed, OoR Assistant Vice President Economic Development Amy Short, CCTST Administrative Director Continuing Medical Education View Handouts × 18 Apr 2017 Event Write Winning NIH Career Development Award Proposals (4/18) Time: April 18, 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM Location: Vontz Auditorium Target Audience: Research Office: Research Development Grant Writers' Seminars & Workshops and the University of Cincinnati Present "Write Winning NIH Career Development Award Proposals" John D. Robertson, Ph.D. × 17 Apr 2017 Event Write Winning Grant Proposals (4/17 - 4/18) Time: April 17, 12:00 AM - April 18, 12:00 AM Location: Vontz Auditorium Target Audience: Research Office: Research Development Grant Writers' Seminars & Workshops and the University of Cincinnati present "Write Winning Grant Proposals" John D. Robertson, Ph.D. Want to stay up to date with the latest research news? Subscribe to the Office of Research Newsletter Email Address: Subscribe Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021