Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research News Facts & Figures For Researchers International Collaboration Funding Opportunities Research Development Researcher Tools Research Events Calendar CCTST Coronavirus Impacts – Return to on-campus Research Signature Programs & Events Signature Programs Events Research Week Leadership & Offices Leadership Support Offices Toggle Search Signature Programs The Office of Research offers many programs for UC faculty, staff and student researchers DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION IN RESEARCH The DEI in Research initiative at UC is a strategic initiative of Research2030, UC’s 10-year plan for research. Our initiative is 3-pronged and is composed of the DEI in Research Fellowship, the DEI in Research Advisory Council and the DEI in Research Digest. The DEI in Research Initiative is aligned with UC’s Next Lives Here Strategic Direction which has a major focus on Inclusive Excellence. Visit Next Lives Here: Urban Futures Pathway Urban Impact research at the University of Cincinnati is that which addresses social, economic and health challenges posed by urbanization. As a part of next lives here, the Urban Futures Pathway was established to advance research at UC that reimagines and reshapes the future through impactful, applied research for social transformation. Urban Futures is foundational to the University of Cincinnati’s Strategic Direction and is now a major pillar of Research2030, UC’s 10-year strategic plan for research. Urban Futures comprises four strategic initiatives: Digital Futures, the Community Change Collaborative (C3), Sustainability@UC, and the Non-profit Leadership Initiative. The guiding principal and goal of each is Collaborative problem solving to improve people’s lives. Digital Futures: High-tech, use-inspired research that addresses complex problems Community Change Collaborative (C3): Community-engaged research with measurable impact Sustainability@UC: Climate change action and research Non-Profit Leadership Initiative (NPLI): Developing and connecting UC leaders to support non-profits in our region Visit Skin Science & Technology Collaborative (S2T) The scientists and researchers at the Skin Science and Technology Collaborative advance the boundaries of skin science, skin technology and commercialization – and have decades of innovation to help advance a wide variety of missions. S2T engages a diverse set of non-competing industry members and research partners who connect, collaborate, and co-create synergistic skin science research opportunities by accessing The University of Cincinnati’s top-in-class skin science and technology expertise and infrastructure across campus. Visit Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration University of Cincinnati Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration aims to use the knowledge and competencies of our faculty, students, and partners to continue Ohio's extensive legacy of contributions to aviation and spaceflight. Visit Advanced Research Computing Center (ARC) High Performance Computing (HPC) is becoming a competitive differentiator for institutions vying for top researchers, including faculty in the arts, humanities and social sciences. At UC, HPC users from every college and unit are collaborating with colleagues from more traditionally research-intensive fields such as biomedicine and engineering, thus creating an even higher demand for HPC resources at UC. UC’s Advanced Research Computing Center (ARC) establishes a high-performance computing (HPC) infrastructure that supports and accelerates computational and data-enabled research, scholarship, and education across the entire University of Cincinnati research enterprise. Visit Alliance for Arts in Research Universities (a2ru) The Alliance for the Arts in Research Universities (a2ru) advances the full range of arts-integrative research, curricula, programs, and creative practice to acknowledge, articulate, and expand the vital role of higher education in our global society. Through our institutional engagement and a2ru programming, the UC Office of Research acknowledges arts-integrative research and believes in the seamless integration of the arts in the pursuit of basic knowledge and in applied research. Visit National Humanities Alliance (NHA) As part of the Office of Research objective to build new connections that promote research across all disciplines, it proudly supports the University of Cincinnati’s partnership with the National Humanities Alliance (NHA). UC’s collaboration with the NHA provides humanities faculty with opportunities to travel to NHA conferences, advocacy training in Washington D.C., NEH program officer meetings, and congressional visits to promote humanities research and education both on the local and grand scale. University of Cincinnati NHA Ambassadors: Flavia Bastos – DAAP Christopher Carter – A&S Jonathan Kregor – CCM John McNay - UCBA Amy Lind – Taft Research Center Visit Biodesign Challenge Biotechnology is spreading into every aspect of our lives—from our materials to our everyday products. As it becomes ubiquitous, society needs interdisciplinary thinkers to understand biotech’s impact and to come up with the next solutions. BDC bridges art, design, and biotech to develop the first generation of professionals who cross disciplines, anticipate promises and pitfalls, and engage the public in dialogue about the broader implications of emerging biotech. The goal of BDC@UC is to encourage students to explore biotech’s entanglements within society—in the way it empowers people, contributes to structural inequities, and creates opportunities for change. Visit University Industry Partnerships UIDP is designed to advance connections on the university-industry partnership continuum. As a member institution, UC gains practical insight into new and improved models of engagement and leading-edge approaches to enhancing collaborations. Visit Hanover Research Services With an increasing number of applicants competing for fewer grant dollars, every institution is looking for an edge in its grant strategy. UC’s collaboration with Hanover seeks to provide our faculty with targeted guidance on their proposals for major funding with the end goal of crafting the most competitive submissions to secure more funding for research. Visit Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021