Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Centers and Institutes AAA About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us Centers and Institutes The University of Miami hosts a wide spectrum of centers and institutes that research, investigate, and explore areas of study and initiatives aimed at solving some of the world’s most perplexing societal problems and health issues. These centers and institutes play an important role in the University’s interdisciplinary research, education, and teaching service. Office of Civic and Community Engagement University Fosters university-community collaboration by engaging the university’s academic resources in the enrichment of civic and community life in our local, national, and global communities. Center for the Humanities Arts & Sciences Providing mutual understanding among groups and cultures, supporting research in the humanities, and enriching the intellectual culture of the University and community Institute for Data Science and Computing Frost Institutes Catalyzing data-intensive research across the University of Miami focused on the needs of the region and enhancing data science understanding among students and the public University Laboratory for Integrative Knowledge Vice Provost for Research & Scholarship Supports teams of scholars from multiple disciplines in collaborative, problem-based inquiry to address the complex challenges of society Center for HIV and Research in Mental Health (CHARM) Offers the expertise, infrastructure and resources necessary to address and strengthen mental health-related HIV prevention and care research at the University and reduces the impact of mental health disparities as barriers to behavioral and bio-behavioral approaches in HIV prevention and care. Institute for Advanced Study of the Americas Brings together relevant scholarship, furthers policy dialogue, and builds strategic knowledge partnerships to address challenges faced by the Americas in the 21st century. Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies An educational link between the University, the Cuban exile community, and the South Florida community at-large, ICCAS serves as the center of academic work, research and discussion on Cuban and Cuban-American topics. Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Center for Southeastern Tropical Advance Remote Sensing (CSTARS) Cooperative Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Studies (CIMAS) Comparative Sedimentology Laboratory and Center for Carbonate Research (CSL) More RSMAS Projects and Research> School of Nursing and Health Studies International Academy for Clinical Simulation and Research Center of Excellence for Health Disparities Research: El Centro PAHO / WHO Collaborating Centre for Nursing Human Resources Development and Patient Safety Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine The over 40 centers and institutes at the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine are world-leading institutions in their fields. Visit the full listing> Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Clinical and Translational Science Institute Diabetes Research Institute John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics (HIHG) Miami Center for AIDS Research Miami Project to Cure Paralysis Miami Transplant Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Abess Center for Ecosystem Science and Policy Center for Autism and Related Disabilities (CARD) Center for Communication, Culture, & Change Center for Ethics and Public Service Henry Mancini Institute Miller Center for Contemporary Judaic Studies University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices