Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Barbara McClintock Life Sciences Lecture Series Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home About the Lecture Series 2021-2022 Speakers Nominate a Speaker Past Speakers About Barbara McClintock Barbara McClintock Life Sciences Lecture Series Committee Life Sciences Lecture Series Committee Chair Adrienne Roeder, Weill Institute for Cell and Molecular Biology/Plant Biology Members Paula Cohen, Biomedical Sciences Cliff Kraft, Natural Resources Brian Lazarro, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Cindy Leifer, Microbiology and Immunology Philipp Messer, Computational Biology John Schimenti, Biomedical Sciences/Molecular Biology and Genetics Jane Wang, Physics Administrative Support Christina Cornell, Executive Assistant, Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation Cornell’s Barbara McClintock Life Sciences Lecture Series is among the most distinguished lecture series at the university. Established in 2018, the Barbara McClintock Life Sciences Lecture Series brings together colleagues from the natural, physical, and computer sciences and engineering communities in a single forum. Previously known as the Biology without Borders series, established in 2012, the lectures focus on identifying and showcasing life scientists whose research cuts across traditional disciplinary boundaries. This lecture series is committed to interdisciplinarity, inclusiveness, and the highest quality of science. Each academic year, four distinguished scientists (two per semester) are invited to present Life Sciences Lectures and participate in workshops and discussion groups. These lectures inform, inspire, and stimulate the Cornell community to engage in interdisciplinary research. Presenters are leaders in their fields. They publish groundbreaking research, make world-changing discoveries, and achieve novel applications for the betterment of society. The Barbara McClintock Life Sciences Lecture Series is made possible through funds from the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation. Events Nothing to display. Cornell Research Research Services Find a Center Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation Cornell Technology Licensing Cornell Environment, Health, and Safety Sign up for the Cornell Research Newsletter Barbara McClintock Life Sciences Lecture Series Part of Cornell Research Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search