/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage People Faculty Academic Staff Administrative and Technical Staff Research Areas Missions Prior Missions Open search Open nav Search for: Fostering cooperative research in space sciences Cornell Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Science The Cornell Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Science (CCAPS) fosters cooperative research among astronomers, engineers, geologists and other researchers with specialties relevant to space sciences. Connected to and contained within the Department of Astronomy, CCAPS administers research grants and contracts across several Cornell Departments. CCAPS was founded in 1959 as the Center for Radiophysics and Space Research, by Cornell professor Thomas Gold (1920-2004), and renamed in 2015. Explore CCAPS Missions Research Areas CCAPS Faculty Academic and Research Staff Interdisciplinary Research The Carl Sagan Institute The interdisciplinary Carl Sagan Institute is actively searching for signs of life on other worlds, creating novel strategies – a “forensic toolkit” -- for discovering life from the solar system to the Galaxy. Researchers at CSI explore planets, moons and planetary systems, including how they form and evolve, and whether they can harbor life. Explore the CSI website. Missions Cornell astronomers have been, and are, leading the direction of space exploration, including having chaired NASA’s Advisory Council and Space Science Advisory as well as panels for the Planetary Science and Astrobiology Decadal Survey 2023-2032. Cornell astronomers currently have roles in almost three-quarters of all active NASA missions, including the Perseverance Mars2020 and Insight missions currently on Mars; the Juno mission exploring Jupiter; the forthcoming Europa Clipper mission to an ocean world, the James Webb Space Telescope that will search for exoplanets; and the Dragonfly mission to Titan. See the current missions Nasa/JPL/CalTech - provided Featured Mission: James Webb Space Telescope NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope — the largest and most powerful space science observatory ever built — is designed to give astronomers unprecedented insight into the mysteries of the cosmos. Webb is an international program led by NASA with its partners, ESA (European Space Agency) and the Canadian Space Agency. It is scheduled to launch this fall. Cornell University scientists are playing key roles in the mission. Click here to learn more about the involvement of CCAPS researchers. CCAPS News Team reveals first image of the black hole at our galaxy’s heart Cornell researchers contributed to the first direct visual evidence of something compact and very massive at the center of the Milky Way. Read More Chasing data: Astronomers race to explore ancient galaxies On the evening of Dec. 12, 2021, Cornell astronomers Gordon Stacey and Thomas Nikola were dangerously short on time. They’d been awake for nearly 24 hours, with another all-nighter ahead of them.The skin on their hands had dried out and cracked from living for five weeks at a dizzying elevation in C... Read More Ice shelf holding back keystone Antarctic glacier within years of failure In this Science article, read about how scientists spotted a set of diagonal fractures in Antarctica's Thwaites Glacier that nearly span the entire shelf.Cornell's Associate Professor Britney Schmidt and research scientist, Peter Washam, sent an instrument-studded robot called Icefin into the ocean ... Read More Surprise Planet Discovered Around Extreme Star Pair In this SciTechDaily article, read about how the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope (ESO's VLT) captured an image of the most massive planet-hosting star pair to date, b Centauri and its giant planet b Centauri b.Read the full story in SciTechDaily. Read More The Telescope That Will Change Astronomy In this Air &amp; Space Magazine article, read about the upcoming launch of NASA's James Webb Space Telescope - the most powerful, expensive, and eagerly anticipated telescope ever to gaze out into the universe.Read the full story here. Read More Mars research paper wins award The European Astrobiology Network association (EANA) is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. For that reason, EANA organized several special events and activities in 2021. One of these activities was the EANA outstanding paper award contest. The winner has been announced:Fairén et al., “The C... Read More NASA's new telescope will show us the infancy of the universe Next month, a European rocket carrying the James Webb Space Telescope is scheduled to launch into space. In this New Yorker article, read about lead scientists, including Cornell's Nikole Lewis, who will work with the JWST’s NIRSpec (near-infrared spectrograph) instrument.Read the full story in The... Read More Teukolsky awarded 2021 Dirac Medal Saul Teukolsky, the Hans A. Bethe Professor of Physics and Astrophysics in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been awarded the International Centre for Theoretical Physics’ 2021 ICTP Dirac Medal and Prize for his contributions to the detection of gravitational waves.Teukolsky is the first Cornell... Read More More News SPIF: Bringing Research and Educational Support to the Community The Spacecraft Planetary Image Facility (SPIF) provides research support by assisting students and planetary scientists in their research, and by providing outreach services and educational support throughout the Central New York region and beyond. SPIF also supports the Cornell Department of Astronomy in undergraduate education, student research, NASA mission science operations, PreK-12 educational support, and community outreach. SPIF has been in operation for 43 years, currently sponsored by the Cornell Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Science (CCAPS) and located on Cornell's main Ithaca campus in the Space Sciences Building. Explore the research areas Black Holes and Neutron Stars Cosmology and the Distant Universe Disks and Jets Extreme Physics and Astrophysics of Compact Objects Galaxies Across the Universe Planetary Exploration and Exoplanets Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email A&S Departments Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top