skip to main content Close Menu San Diego State University Research & Innovation Research Support Services Grad Studies Research Foundation Search Home [email protected] ABOUT US RESEARCH HISTORY AREAS OF EXCELLENCE CENTERS AND INSTITUTES RESEARCH HORIZONS COVID-19 PROJECTS Research News RESEARCH NEWS CENTER FACULTY EXPERTS RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS FACULTY SPOTLIGHT VIDEOS COMMUNICATIONS Innovation ENTREPRENEURSHIP @ SDSU TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER OFFICE ZAHN INNOVATION PLATFORM LAUNCHPAD LAVIN ENTREPRENEURSHIP CENTER MISSION VALLEY INNOVATION DISTRICT Resources for Researchers RESEARCH SUPPORT SERVICES RESEARCH ADVANCEMENT FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES TEAMING OPPORTUNITIES CORE FACILITIES RESEARCH LECTURESHIP POSTDOCTORAL SCHOLARS Student Research GRADUATE STUDENTS UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENT RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM ZAHN SPIRIT OF INNOVATION AWARD DIVERSITY San Diego State University Research and Innovation Menu Our centers and institutes are hubs of collaboration San Diego State University has more than 70 robust and active centers and institutes that serve as collaborative and innovative nuclei of research, scholarship, and action. Many of our centers and institutes work in partnership with Southern California governments, agencies, non-profits, corporations, and universities. Others have a global reach that spans five continents. Examples of Excellence Center For Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience The Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film Computational Science Research Center Center For Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN) × Researchers with the Center for Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience framework for San Diego State University study brain-based language and cognitive processing and disorders. The center aims to enhance teaching and research mentoring in clinical and cognitive neuroscience. The Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film × The Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film is home to the longest running and most comprehensive studies of women in film and television. Dedicated to producing extensive and timely research, studies generated by the Center provide the foundation for a realistic and meaningful discussion of women’s on-screen representation and behind-the-scenes employment. Computational Science Research Center × The Computational Science Research Center promotes the development and advancement of the interdisciplinary discipline of computational science by fostering research; developing educational programs; and promoting industrial interaction, outreach, and partnership activities. The CSRC facilitates the interaction between applied mathematics, biology, computer science, statistics and other scientific and engineering disciplines. The Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs Institute for Behavioral and Community Health Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health The Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs × The Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs promotes critical thinking about moral issues that are often complex in nature. The Institute is a resource to members of the campus community, the larger community of scholars, and the greater San Diego community who wish to pursue thoughtful discussion and research as a means of clarifying moral problems. It also aims to raise the profile of the moral implications of current events. The Institute organizes and sponsors a variety of programs on applied and theoretical moral issues. Among these programs are colloquia, community outreach talks, and lectures. Institute for Behavioral and Community Health (IBACH) × Institute for Behavioral and Community Health aims to build the evidence-base of behavioral, social, cultural and built environmental factors associated with health disparities, and methods for ameliorating these factors through innovative interventions. It works collaboratively with partners and their organizations, and uses these opportunities to train the next generation of researchers and practitioners. Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health (SASH) × The Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health (SASH) seeks to reduce disparities and inequities related to sexuality and sexual health through multidisciplinary, community-engaged, and collaborative research, training, and health promotion that focuses on diverse populations. Coastal and Marine Institute South Bay Latino Research Center Watershed Science Institute Coastal and Marine Institute (CMI) × The Coastal and Marine Institute refers to the consortium of researchers, visiting scientists and students at SDSU who perform basic and applied coastal research and share knowledge of the marine environment. Its researchers offer interdisciplinary solutions to coastal zone problems in the San Diego Region. South Bay Latino Research Center (SBLRC) × The South Bay Latino Research Center is a tri-lateral collaboration between SDSU, UCSD, and San Ysidro Health that seeks to promote and expedite research to improve chronic disease (cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity) outcomes in Latinos living in the border region of San Diego. The center conducts rigorous, community-based epidemiologic, behavioral, and genetic research in an effort to reduce disparities for disadvantaged populations, and at the same time provide improved service to the community, answer important biomedical questions, build research capacity in the community, and stimulate and train investigators. An exemplar of this effort is the landmark Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos. Watershed Science Institute (WSI) × The Watershed Science Institute promotes collaboration among SDSU researchers and communities involved in the management and regulation of land and water resources. It aims to improve the integration of science, policy, and management of watersheds by aligning research questions with critical management needs. The institute is focused on critical challenges related to water resources and water quality in Southern California, including drinking water supply shortages, climate change, water quality deterioration, impaired surface water bodies, soil erosion, and coastal contamination. Young People’s Environments, Society and Space Research Center The Center for Surf Research Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age Young People’s Environments, Society and Space Research Center × The Young People's Environments, Society and Space Research Center (YESS Center) promotes high quality scholarship and theory development; enhances the capacity of the Department of Geography and College of Arts and Letters to implement qualitative and interpretive research methods; and provides a community consulting program that partners with youth serving organizations and policy-makers to inform policies and improve programs that impact children and young people. The Center for Surf Research × The Center for Surf Research is a non-profit research and teaching center housed in SDSU’s Sustainable Tourism Program that provides leadership in the struggle for sustainability in surf tourism in two primary ways: shaping responsible citizens through life-changing experiential learning opportunities for students and the wider community; and creating and disseminating specialist knowledge to governments, the surf industry, tourism developers, destination communities, nonprofits, and tourists. Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age (HDMA) × The Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age is a research institute at San Diego State University that focuses on research questions and analytical software development for Big Data and human dynamics problems—such as disaster responses and recovery, disease outbreaks, public health disparities, and urban dynamics—by monitoring information from mobile technologies, mobile devices (including GIS, social media and GPS datasets), and big data resources (sensor webs, census data, cancer registries, web data, and electronic health records). Center for Excellence in Aging & Longevity Language Acquisition Resource Center Social Policy Institute Center for Excellence in Aging & Longevity × The Center on Aging is a focal point for multidisciplinary education, research, and community service in gerontology and geriatrics. For about forty years, SDSU has played a key role in developing gerontological knowledge and improving services to older people. These comprehensive efforts by the Center on Aging have significantly contributed to a better understanding of the elderly in their physical, economic, cultural and psychosocial environment. Language Acquisition Resource Center × The Language Acquisition Resource Center (LARC) is a national Language Training Center that delivers language and culture training for active duty military, ROTC students, and reserve personnel to respond to the cross-service need for demonstrable communicative competence in world languages and cultures. LARC helps enhance partners’ linguistic and cross-cultural mission readiness, providing language enhancement, conversion or initial acquisition training. LARC also supports the teaching and learning of foreign languages in the United States through research, technology integration, and resource development. Particular attention is paid to less commonly taught languages, cross-cultural competence, language skills assessment, and teacher professional development. Social Policy Institute × The Social Policy Institute aims to increase child, family and community well-being by engaging, working with and inspiring our partners, community stakeholders and policy makers. For example, it partners with the Child Abuse Prevention Center and the Children’s Bureau of Southern California to support the professional development of California’s family strengthening field. Academy for Professional Excellence The Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good The Visualization Center Academy for Professional Excellence × The Academy for Professional Excellence was established in 1996 with the mission to provide exceptional learning and development experiences for the transformation of individuals, organizations and communities. Serving over 20,000 health and human service professionals annually, the Academy creates experiences that transform the heart, mind, and practice. The Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good × The Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good is one of the newest centers at SDSU. It is an innovative hub for investigating critical relationships between communication and health that shape the human social condition in contemporary society. The Visualization Center × The "Viz Center" specializes in organizing and delivering geospatial data over small networks for emergency response and disasters. By linking emerging technologies, innovative back-end processing, and operational needs especially for disaster, the Viz Center community is attempting to assist our community, region, nation, and world in responding to difficult situations with critical information, knowledge, and decision-support tools. Center For Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience Center For Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN) × Researchers with the Center for Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience framework for San Diego State University study brain-based language and cognitive processing and disorders. The center aims to enhance teaching and research mentoring in clinical and cognitive neuroscience. The Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film The Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film × The Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film is home to the longest running and most comprehensive studies of women in film and television. Dedicated to producing extensive and timely research, studies generated by the Center provide the foundation for a realistic and meaningful discussion of women’s on-screen representation and behind-the-scenes employment. Computational Science Research Center Computational Science Research Center × The Computational Science Research Center promotes the development and advancement of the interdisciplinary discipline of computational science by fostering research; developing educational programs; and promoting industrial interaction, outreach, and partnership activities. The CSRC facilitates the interaction between applied mathematics, biology, computer science, statistics and other scientific and engineering disciplines. The Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs The Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs × The Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs promotes critical thinking about moral issues that are often complex in nature. The Institute is a resource to members of the campus community, the larger community of scholars, and the greater San Diego community who wish to pursue thoughtful discussion and research as a means of clarifying moral problems. It also aims to raise the profile of the moral implications of current events. The Institute organizes and sponsors a variety of programs on applied and theoretical moral issues. Among these programs are colloquia, community outreach talks, and lectures. Institute for Behavioral and Community Health Institute for Behavioral and Community Health (IBACH) × Institute for Behavioral and Community Health aims to build the evidence-base of behavioral, social, cultural and built environmental factors associated with health disparities, and methods for ameliorating these factors through innovative interventions. It works collaboratively with partners and their organizations, and uses these opportunities to train the next generation of researchers and practitioners. Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health (SASH) × The Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health (SASH) seeks to reduce disparities and inequities related to sexuality and sexual health through multidisciplinary, community-engaged, and collaborative research, training, and health promotion that focuses on diverse populations. Coastal and Marine Institute Coastal and Marine Institute (CMI) × The Coastal and Marine Institute refers to the consortium of researchers, visiting scientists and students at SDSU who perform basic and applied coastal research and share knowledge of the marine environment. Its researchers offer interdisciplinary solutions to coastal zone problems in the San Diego Region. South Bay Latino Research Center South Bay Latino Research Center (SBLRC) × The South Bay Latino Research Center is a tri-lateral collaboration between SDSU, UCSD, and San Ysidro Health that seeks to promote and expedite research to improve chronic disease (cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity) outcomes in Latinos living in the border region of San Diego. The center conducts rigorous, community-based epidemiologic, behavioral, and genetic research in an effort to reduce disparities for disadvantaged populations, and at the same time provide improved service to the community, answer important biomedical questions, build research capacity in the community, and stimulate and train investigators. An exemplar of this effort is the landmark Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos. Watershed Science Institute Watershed Science Institute (WSI) × The Watershed Science Institute promotes collaboration among SDSU researchers and communities involved in the management and regulation of land and water resources. It aims to improve the integration of science, policy, and management of watersheds by aligning research questions with critical management needs. The institute is focused on critical challenges related to water resources and water quality in Southern California, including drinking water supply shortages, climate change, water quality deterioration, impaired surface water bodies, soil erosion, and coastal contamination. Young People’s Environments, Society and Space Research Center Young People’s Environments, Society and Space Research Center × The Young People's Environments, Society and Space Research Center (YESS Center) promotes high quality scholarship and theory development; enhances the capacity of the Department of Geography and College of Arts and Letters to implement qualitative and interpretive research methods; and provides a community consulting program that partners with youth serving organizations and policy-makers to inform policies and improve programs that impact children and young people. The Center for Surf Research The Center for Surf Research × The Center for Surf Research is a non-profit research and teaching center housed in SDSU’s Sustainable Tourism Program that provides leadership in the struggle for sustainability in surf tourism in two primary ways: shaping responsible citizens through life-changing experiential learning opportunities for students and the wider community; and creating and disseminating specialist knowledge to governments, the surf industry, tourism developers, destination communities, nonprofits, and tourists. Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age (HDMA) × The Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age is a research institute at San Diego State University that focuses on research questions and analytical software development for Big Data and human dynamics problems—such as disaster responses and recovery, disease outbreaks, public health disparities, and urban dynamics—by monitoring information from mobile technologies, mobile devices (including GIS, social media and GPS datasets), and big data resources (sensor webs, census data, cancer registries, web data, and electronic health records). Center for Excellence in Aging & Longevity Center for Excellence in Aging & Longevity × The Center on Aging is a focal point for multidisciplinary education, research, and community service in gerontology and geriatrics. For about forty years, SDSU has played a key role in developing gerontological knowledge and improving services to older people. These comprehensive efforts by the Center on Aging have significantly contributed to a better understanding of the elderly in their physical, economic, cultural and psychosocial environment. Language Acquisition Resource Center Language Acquisition Resource Center × The Language Acquisition Resource Center (LARC) is a national Language Training Center that delivers language and culture training for active duty military, ROTC students, and reserve personnel to respond to the cross-service need for demonstrable communicative competence in world languages and cultures. LARC helps enhance partners’ linguistic and cross-cultural mission readiness, providing language enhancement, conversion or initial acquisition training. LARC also supports the teaching and learning of foreign languages in the United States through research, technology integration, and resource development. Particular attention is paid to less commonly taught languages, cross-cultural competence, language skills assessment, and teacher professional development. Social Policy Institute Social Policy Institute × The Social Policy Institute aims to increase child, family and community well-being by engaging, working with and inspiring our partners, community stakeholders and policy makers. For example, it partners with the Child Abuse Prevention Center and the Children’s Bureau of Southern California to support the professional development of California’s family strengthening field. Academy for Professional Excellence Academy for Professional Excellence × The Academy for Professional Excellence was established in 1996 with the mission to provide exceptional learning and development experiences for the transformation of individuals, organizations and communities. Serving over 20,000 health and human service professionals annually, the Academy creates experiences that transform the heart, mind, and practice. The Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good The Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good × The Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good is one of the newest centers at SDSU. It is an innovative hub for investigating critical relationships between communication and health that shape the human social condition in contemporary society. The Visualization Center The Visualization Center × The "Viz Center" specializes in organizing and delivering geospatial data over small networks for emergency response and disasters. By linking emerging technologies, innovative back-end processing, and operational needs especially for disaster, the Viz Center community is attempting to assist our community, region, nation, and world in responding to difficult situations with critical information, knowledge, and decision-support tools. Centers and Institutes at San Diego State University Academic Learning Center Academy for Professional Excellence (SDSU School of Social Work) Baylor Brooks Institute of Isotope Geology Behner Stiefel Center for Brazilian Studies Bread and Roses Center Career Management Center Center for Achieving Black Wellness and Anti-Racist Education (CABWARE) Center for Advancing Global Business Center for Alcohol and Drug Studies and Services Center for Asian and Pacific Studies Center for Autism and Developmental Disorders Center for Behavioral Epidemiology and Community Health (CBEACH) Center for Behavioral Teratology Center for Climate and Sustainability Studies Center for Clinical and Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN) Center for Communication, Health, & the Public Good Center for Community Counseling & Engagement (CCCE) Center for Community Research and Engagement (CCRE) Center for Earth Systems Analysis Research Lab (CESAR) Center for Energy Studies Center for Equity and Biliteracy Education Research (CEBER) Center for Equity and Postsecondary Attainment (CEPA) Center for European Studies Center for Excellence in Aging & Longevity Center for Excellence in Early Development (CEED) Center for Family, School, and Community Engagement (FSaCE) Center for Health Economics & Policy Studies (CHEPS) Center for Hospitality and Tourism Research Center for Human Dynamics in the Mobile Age (HDMA) Center for Human Rights Center for Industrial Training and Engineering Research (CITER) Center for Information Convergence and Strategy (CICS) Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER) Center for Islamic and Arabic Studies (CIAS) Center for Latin American Studies (CLAS) Center for Learning, Instruction and the Performance Technologies Center for Microbial Sciences Center for Neurotechnology Center for Regional Sustainability Center for Regulatory Science Center for Renewable Energy and Enery Efficiency Center for Research in Mathematics and Science Education (CRMSE) Center for Research on Sexuality and Sexual Health (SASH) Center for Science & Media Center for Surf Research Center for Teaching and Learning Center for Teaching Critical Thinking and Creativity Center for the Study of Media and Performance (CSMP) Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film Center for Visual Literacies Center for War and Society Center on Secondary Education for Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders (CSESA) Centre for Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) Charles Hostler Institute on World Affairs Chinese Cultural Center (CCC) Coastal and Marine Institute (CMI) Collections Management Communication Systems and Signal Processing Institute Complex Human-Environment Systems Center (CHES) Computational Science Research Center (CSRC) Concrete Research Institute Conrad N. Hilton Foundation Volunteer and Mentorship Center Consensus Organizing Center (COC) Corky McMillin Center for Real Estate (CMCRE) Corporate Governance Institute (CGI) Cultural Proficiency Institute Donald P. Shiley BioScience Center GATE Center for Electric Drive Transportation Glen M. Broom Center for Professional Development in Public Relations Heart Institute Industrial Assessment Center Institute for Behavioral and Community Health (IBACH) Institute for Dialogue and Social Justice Institute for Ethics and Public Affairs Institute for Inclusiveness and Diversity in Organizations (IIDO) Institute for Innovative Governance Institute for International Security & Conflict Resolution Institute for Leisure and Tourism Management Institute for Public Health (IPH) Institute for Regional Studies of the Californias (IRSC) Institute for Meetings and Events Institute of Public and Urban Affairs Integrated Regenerative Research Institute International Population Center (IPC) International Studies Teacher Education Project (ISTEP) Interwork Institute Japan Studies Institute Laboratory for Language and Cognitive Neuroscience Language Acquisition Resource Center (LARC) Lavin Entrepreneurship Center Molecular Biology Institute National Center for the 21st Century Schoolhouse National Center for the Study of Children’s Literature (NCSCL) National Center for Urban School Transformation (NCUST) Pre-College Institute (PCI) Production Center for Documentary and Drama SDSU Literacy Center Social Policy Institute Social Science Research Laboratory (SSRL) South Bay Latino Research Center (SBLRC) South Coastal Information Center (SCIC) Sustainble Energy Center Sycuan Institute on Government Gaming The Investigative Newsource The J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Foundation Student Center for Professional Development Viral Information Institute VizCenter Watershed Science Institute (WSI) Young People's Environments, Society and Space Research Center (YESS) 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 A-Z Index Campus Directory Maps Parking Employment Media Relations Give to SDSU WebPortal General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Feedback Last Update: July 18, 2016 Document Reader Twitter Last Updated 2/17/22