Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation For Researchers For Industry Calendar Provost Research at Yale About Resources For Researchers For Industry Core Research Facilities Index of All Resources FAQs Policies Science Strategy Announcements COVID-19 Guidance Home > FAQs FAQs FAQs topics: How do I… Research Data Consultation Group Other Research-Related FAQs How Do I… Q: Where do I find information about cost sharing? A: See Policy 1306 for guidelines on Cost Sharing on Sponsored Projects, and PR.01 on Cost Sharing Projects for calculating salary cost sharing and complying with a salary and/or non-salary cost sharing commitment. Q: Who can visit a lab? A: See guidelines about undergraduates and minors participating in research or clinical activities, including visiting labs. Q: Where can I find information about how to comply with reporting requirements in clinicaltrials.gov? A: The Yale Center for Clinical Investigation (YCCI) provides assistance with registration of trials and results reporting of completed trials. See also this guide for complying with NIH public access requirements. Q: I need to write a data management plan. What help is available? A: The Yale University Library has a useful guide with information about data management planning. The DMPTool can help you create a data management plan and it includes templates for the majority of federal and many non-profit and private funding agencies. Yale is an institutional partner of the DMPTool, so you can choose Yale as your institution and sign in with your NetID and password. If you have questions or need to consult with someone, contact the research data consultation group. Research Data Consultation Group Research Data Support FAQs Other Research-Related FAQs Proposal FAQs (Office of Sponsored Projects) Contract FAQs (Office of Sponsored Projects) Undergraduate Research FAQs (Yale College) Technology Transfer FAQs (Office of Cooperative Research) Participating in Clinical Research at Yale FAQs (Yale School of Medicine) Have more questions? Contact US Is this website helpful? website feedback Updated August 18, 2017 All Resources For Researchers For Industry Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Office of the Provost | P.O. Box 208333, New Haven, CT 06520-8365 203-432-4448 | FAQ | Website Feedback Facebook Twitter YouTube