Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Offices Research Compliance and Training Good Clinical Practice Training Good Clinical Practice Training NIH issued a policy that requires training in Good Clinical Practice (GCP) every 3 years. The policy has been in effect since January 1, 2017, and covers clinical trials funded in whole or in part by the NIH, regardless of the study phase or type of intervention. NIH’s GCP policy applies to both current projects and new awards. The NIH definition of “clinical trial” is broad and includes all trials regardless of the phase or type of intervention. What is the Requirement: The requirement is completion of GCP Training, in addition to other applicable trainings. Note: GCP training does not replace Human Subjects Protection training (TC0087). Who must take GCP training: All investigators and clinical research staff who work on NIH-funded clinical trials must complete GCP training. When must GCP training be completed: Individuals working on currently active, NIH-funded clinical trials should complete GCP training as soon as possible. Failure to complete training will cause delays at protocol renewal. For new clinical trials, training must be completed as a condition for protocol approval. How to complete GCP training: Online GCP training may be completed in Rascal through Course TC3450, which links to the Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) training website. The course must be accessed through the Rascal Training Center here. Be sure to read and follow the instructions in Rascal to ensure proper credit. The course takes approximately 2 hours to complete. Anyone who has completed the course within the past 3 years is not required to retake it before three years. To remain compliant following the three-year window after training completion, individuals may retake the TC3450 or opt to take the GCP Refresher course, TC3452, which can be found in Rascal here. Previously completed GCP training through an accredited third-party provider within the past three years may also fulfill the new NIH requirement. To receive credit for such a course, please send documentation to [email protected] for review. Completion of TC3450 or another approved GCP course will be reflected on the Rascal IRB Data Sheet. In addition, individuals are required to maintain training documentation in case of audit or sponsor request. More information: The full text of the NIH policy can be viewed here: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-16-148.html. NIH’s definition of “Clinical Trial” is available at: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-15-015.html. For questions, please email [email protected]. Annie Barry Assistant Manager Human Research Protection Office/Institutional Review Board 212-342-0034 [email protected] Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close