Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Offices Vice President for Research Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Office of Biosafety Department of Comparative Medicine Human Research Protection Office & IRBs Sponsored Projects Administration Institutional Biosafety Committee Research Compliance Office of Research Proposal Development Office of Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property Development Core Facilities Funding Opportunities External Funding Opportunities Corporations & Foundations Grant Opportunities Additional Resources Supporting Impactful Publications Program News & Events Research News Our Team Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Offices / Institutional Biosafety Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee Video and PowerPoint Slides from the August 17th, 2021 Faculty Orientation COVID-19 Information Biosafety COVID-19 Guidelines Institutional Biosafety Committee Stipulations for Research involving SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) The Institutional BioSaftey Committee (IBC) is fully functional and our protocol reiew and approval processes are still in effect. We expect this to continue even if the university further suspends on-site operations for purposes of decreasing COVID-19 transmission. The university’s animal care facilities such as the vivarium are fully operational, and have pandemic response plans in place. As Tulane University makes decisions on how to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, we want to reassure the university community that our primary concern is the safety of our research participants and the research team members at the university. Our secondary goal is to preserve the scientific integrity of the research and its protocols. It is an investigator's responsibility to ensure that all of their study personnel (faculty and staff) receive appropriate training regarding proper screening for COVID-19, triage procedures for positive screens and proper use of personal protective equipment. All research staff should self-screen before coming to Tulane facilities and are required to have IDs visible at all times. Tulane University resources regarding COVID-19 Tulane University Biosafety Guidance Website Required changes to research practice based on the coronavirus will be posted on the Office of Research website, https://research.tulane.edu/. Please check the website frequently if you are interacting with research participants. Tulane University COVID-19 website (information, FAQs, and current recommendations): https://campushealth.tulane.edu/health-center/primary-care/infectious-disease-care/coronavirus-covid-19. Tulane University President’s announcements on university actions as to COVID-19: https://tulane.edu/tulane-university-moves-online-instruction-cancels-large-events. Additional guidelines issued by the Tulane School of Medicine are available at https://medicine.tulane.edu/research-covid-19-information. Additional resources Recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC): https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/index.html. The Tulane University Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) is a university wide committee responsible for reviewing research activities utilizing recombinant DNA (rDNA) and/or infectious agents, assuring the safe conduct of research, assessing decontamination and biocontainment levels, and ensuring research is done in compliance with government and institution regulations. The use of rDNA or infectious agents has the potential of endangering the health of humans an animals and affecting the environment. Federal regulations require that all procedures involving the use of rDNA, which according to the "NIH Guidelines for Use of Recombinant or Synthetic Nucleic Acid Molecules" are Non-Exempt, undergo review by the IBC. This site describes the current policies of Tulane University’s IBC, how it regulates research and the procedures to obtain IBC approval. Information hereby presented is intended to help investigators, IBC members and Biosafety Officers comply with institution, federal, state and local regulations. Policies Responsibilities Recombinant DNA Categories IBC Approval Review Procedure Risk Group Classification of the Basis of Hazard Download Forms Helpful Information 2022 Meeting Schedule Contact Us Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University