Skip to main content University of Southern California USC Research Primary Menu About Research and Scholarship Research Administration Funding Training Events Announcements MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search Home Research award accelerates USC’s work on next-generation cell therapy for prostate cancer The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine awarded $5.8 million to researchers in the Jane Ann Nohl Division of Hematology at the Keck School of Medicine of USC. Research award accelerates USC’s work on next-generation cell therapy for prostate cancer First part of $30 million grant awarded to USC Team for stroke project by National Institutes of Health Researchers at Keck School of Medicine of USC move experimental drug closer to approval for clinical use. First part of $30 million grant awarded to USC Team for stroke project by National Institutes of Health Eileen Crimmins and Manuel Pastor have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences The prestigious honorary society recognizes exceptional individuals from academia, the arts, industry, public policy and research and engages them in addressing significant global and national challenges. Eileen Crimmins, Manuel Pastor elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Small ‘good cholesterol’ particles may have a role in Alzheimer’s prevention First-ever study to measure high-density lipoprotein particle numbers in spinal fluid led by Keck School of Medicine of USC. Small ‘good cholesterol’ particles may have a role in Alzheimer’s prevention A protein that enables us to detect cold and menthol may also be key to migraine headaches The laboratory findings point to a target for new treatments that could mean relief for millions suffering from debilitating pain. A protein that enables us to detect cold and menthol may also be key to migraine headaches Research at USC The mission of the Office of Research at the University of Southern California is to nurture and promote ethical and rigorous research, scholarship, creativity, and innovation to benefit society. Learn more Department of Animal Resources DAR provides provides animal procurement, daily animal care, animal health care, and scientific support for USC programs using animals in research and teaching. dar.usc.edu Department of Contracts and Grants DCG supports the research administration process, ensuring it’s consistent with university standards for academic freedom, research ethics, and fiscal responsibility. dcg.usc.edu Institute for Creative Technologies ICT is a University Affiliated Research Center (UARC) that merges film and game industry artists together with computer and social scientists to study and develop immersive media. ict.usc.edu Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee IACUC oversees USC’s animal programs, animal facilities, and policies ensuring appropriate care, ethical use and humane treatment of animals. iacuc.usc.edu Office for the Protection of Research Subjects OPRS develops program-wide policies for the conduct and review of human subjects research at USC, provides education and training, and oversees the Institutional Review Boards (IRB). oprs.usc.edu Office of Research Advancement ORA works with faculty and teams on developing large-scale and interdisciplinary research proposals and informing researchers about federally-funded research programs. ora.usc.edu Office of Research Initiatives and Facilities ORIF supports investigators through internal award programs, limited submissions, shared resources, as well as faculty training via the Center for Excellence in Research. orif.usc.edu Office of Research Integrity ORI fosters a culture of integrity within the entire USC research community by educating investigators about responsible conduct in research and laboratory practices. ori.usc.edu Research Technology Services RTS maintains and supports diSClose (for managing conflicts of interest) and iStar (for research with human subjects, animals, and biohazardous and radioactive substances). rts.usc.edu USC Stevens Center for Innovation USC Stevens is USC’s technology transfer office and also licenses discoveries, promotes entrepreneurship, stimulates innovation and leads corporate research collaborations. stevens.usc.edu Research and Scholarship Find resources for managing scholarly inquiry, including guidelines and policies, a list of centers and institutes, available shared resources, funding opportunities, research training, and COVID-19 research continuity resources. Learn more Events No scheduled events. More Events Research Administration Find resources for research administration, including information on key financial concepts, guides through the proposal and award lifecycle, grants management tools, and how to maintain research compliance. Learn more News USC Pride Month to celebrate ‘The Power of Community’May 27, 2022 Kickoff on June 1 includes virtual event sharing personal stories and Keck Hospital of USC flag-raising ceremony. Social work grad uses personal history to advocate for domestic violence legislationMay 27, 2022 COMMENCEMENT 2022: Inspired by her policy classes, Yvonne Elliott lobbied for the recent reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. Third-generation Trojan turns to social work solve chronic health care issueMay 27, 2022 COMMENCEMENT 2022: John Oberg harnesses technology to treat patients with comorbid chronic diseases. Nearing 70, USC Gould student proves it’s never too late to get your master’s degreeMay 27, 2022 COMMENCEMENT 2022: The degree — her second master's — will help Virginia Polley support her husband's new career venture and eventually take charge of the company herself. More News Announcements Zumberge Research Coordination & Team Building AwardMay 10, 2022 The Office of Research is launching a new Zumberge grant program! The Zumberge Research Coordination & Team Building (RCTB) Award provides opportunities to foster new collaborations between USC faculty, as well as… Monthly Update – April 2022April 29, 2022 Cases in Los Angeles County continue to rise; however, hospitalizations due to COVID-19 remain relatively low. At USC, many protocols (including masking) are optional in most settings. Masking is still… Monthly Update – March 2022March 31, 2022 As of March 7, 2022, indoor masking is strongly recommended, but not required, for vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals to protect them against COVID-19. Masking is still required in some areas… Read more Quick Links About Offices & People Announcements Research and Scholarship Research Administration Funding Limited Submissions COVID-19 Research Continuity Total Access for Research Administration Centers and Institutes Shared Resources Students and Postdocs Training Events Office of Research Services Department of Animal Resources Department of Contracts and Grants Institute for Creative Technologies Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Office for the Protection of Research Subjects Office of Research Advancement Office of Research Initiatives and Facilities Office of Research Integrity Research Technology Services USC Stevens Center for Innovation University of Southern CaliforniaContent managed by USC Research Twitter TwitterThe logo for the social media platform Twitter. LinkedIn LinkedInThe logo for the social media platform LinkedIn. Slack LinkAn icon of a link in a chain. YouTube YouTubeThe logo for video sharing platform YouTube. COVID Update 3/31: Starting April 4, Trojan Check will no longer be required, but all should continue to check symptoms whenever coming to campus. Click to learn more.