Skip to main content area Toggle navigation Office of Research About Focus Areas Thought Leaders Schedule Past Event Highlights Toggle Search ABOUT RESEARCH + INNOVATION WEEK 2022 Research + Innovation Week is a week-long celebration of disruptive ideas, applied solutions and the real-world impacts UC research, scholarship, and creative activities have on Cincinnati, the region, and beyond. Each year, we showcase the extraordinary research of our faculty and students who are having an impact on the communities we serve. The theme for Research + Innovation Week 2022 is Confronting Crisis. Join us as researchers from across UC share how they are confronting society's biggest problems through their research and innovation. FOCUS AREAS OF RESEARCH + INNOVATION WEEK Quality Education Our promise to UC students is simple: Every Bearcat graduates with a clear focus on cultivating their ideal future. We are also passionate about early childhood and K-12 education. R&I Week features UC teacher-scholars actively engaging in advancing their fields of inquiry and providing students of all ages with a high-quality education that sparks curiosity, nurtures creativity, embodies cultural sensitivity, cultivates a love for learning, and equips people with the next-level skills necessary for success in work and life. Health & Well-being At UC, we take our responsibility for the health and well-being of our children, our community and of society, seriously. In partnership with our affiliates at CCHMC, Hoxworth, and the VA, UC researchers, clinicians, nurses and health & wellness professionals and providers are actively caring for, healing, and saving lives. R&I Week features UC clinicians and clinical researchers working on disease prevention, providing quality care and equitable access, and discovering the next cure. Society and Economy UC is focused on enhancing the impact our institution has in Greater Cincinnati, our region and beyond. We are actively developing strategic alliances and partnering to address real-world problems on both a local and global scale. R&I Week features UC researchers who are partnering with industry, government, non-profits, and members of the community to solve problems that matter. Check out our awesome thought leaders! × Daniel Meyer Founder and CEO at Nehemiah Manufacturing Company Contact: info@nehemiahmfg.com Dan has nearly 40 years of consumer packaged goods experience. He has held senior management positions with large, multinational companies for 16 years, and over the past 23 years, has co-founded two start-up companies. From 1978-1994, Dan spent 16 years with Procter & Gamble, Quaker Oats, and the Drackett companies in a variety of marketing, sales, and general management positions. From 1994-2009, as co-founder of Changing Paradigms, Dan's team built an $85M CPG company, becoming a leader in premium private label products within the air care, household cleaners, drain care, laundry additives, and baby care categories. During this time, Changing Paradigms became a key partner with P&G's GBD group leveraging his teams CPG experience to (1) resurrect orphan P&G brands like Downy Wrinkle Releaser, Febreze Laundry Odor Eliminator, and Dryel at home dry cleaner (which was later purchased), (2) build brand adjacencies for the Dreft Brand, (3) share technical knowledge to accelerate Febreze entry in the candle segment, and (4) incubate new concepts for the laundry care group. In 2007, Changing Paradigms was sold to oneCare, where Dan spent 3 years continuing to oversee the Changing Paradigms division. In 2009, Dan co-founded Nehemiah Manufacturing, whose mission is to build brands, create jobs, and change lives through employment and whole life coaching in the inner-city of Cincinnati. With the support of P&G, Nehemiah licensed the Pampers Kandoo business in September 2009 which was the foundation for the start of the Nehemiah Company. In 2012, Nehemiah acquired the Boogie Wipes brand, a patented saline nose wipe for little children, building the company’s presence within baby/toddler care. In October, 2013, Nehemiah entered an arrangement with Procter & Gamble to licensed 3 fabric & home care brands... Downy Wrinkle Releaser, Febreze Laundry Odor Eliminator, and Dreft laundry soil & stain remover, fabric refresher, and multi-surface spray/wipes. Located in its new 180,000 square foot facility at 1907 South Street in Lower Price Hill, Nehemiah currently employs 180 people, with over 125 employees in the production, warehousing, and office positions, being second change citizens. Second chance citizens are those that find it extremely hard to find sustainable employment because of having a felony in the background, or a history of drug and/or alcohol abuse leading the gaps in their employment history, or even those who have were homeless for a period of time. In 2015, Dan led a group that set into motion plans to team with other businesses in providing critically needed jobs for Returning Citizens. In April of 2016, the Beacon of Hope Business Alliance was formally launched, engaging leaders from business, government, churches and related social services. The mission over time is to expose 2,500 new jobs each year to the Second Chance population by creating awareness, providing a proven process and easy access to an ecosystem of social support – so that everyone who wants to work and change their life will be given that chance. To date, over 80 companies are involved in this mission while hiring over 600 2nd Chance citizens. In August, 2019, Nehemiah transitioned the Beacon of Hope Business Alliance to Cincinnati Works, to help take this Alliance to the next level. Dan received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Business School in 1978. Dan resides in Cincinnati with his wife of 40 years and is the proud father of three girls and a 12 year old granddaughter. Close × Jillian Aurisano, PhD CEAS - Elec Eng & Computer Science Contact: aurisajm@ucmail.uc.edu Jillian Aurisano received her PhD from the University of Illinois, Chicago (UIC) in 2021, where she completed her research at the Electronic Visualization Laboratory. She works at the intersection of data visualization and human computer interaction, and focuses on engineering visualization environments and applications that address ‘big data’ challenges in scientific communities. She has a bachelor’s degree in biology, from the University of Chicago, and an MS degree in computer science from UIC. She has held internships at MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Monsanto, and Argonne National Laboratory. She has worked on interdisciplinary projects with experts in bioinformatics, genomics, machine learning, natural language processing, ecology, and national security in academic, national laboratory and industrial research settings. Her work has been recognized with several awards including the UIC Chancellor’s Graduate Research Award (2016), UIC Image of Research Award (2016), Best Paper Award (IEEE Collaborative Computing 2014), Poster Honorable Mention (IEEE InfoVis 2015) and Best Poster Award (Large Data Analysis and Visualization 2014 and 2019). Her service work with the Women in Computer Science organization at UIC was recognized with the Google Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship in 2013 (now the Women Techmakers Scholars) and the UIC Student Services Award in 2015. Close × Valerio Ferme, PhD Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost Contact: fermevc@ucmail.uc.edu Valerio Ferme, PhD, serves as the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, providing oversight and strategic direction for the University of Cincinnati's (UC) more than 46,000 students, 6,000 faculty and 13 academic colleges, the Graduate School, UC Online, and a collection of state-of-the-art university libraries. As the university's chief academic officer, Ferme oversees the human and fiscal resources that fuel UC’s academic and research mission with assistance from the academic deans and Provost senior staff while also supporting various aspects of faculty and student success. Ferme joined UC in 2019 as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences - UC’s largest college - overseeing a $125 million budget and 21 departments. During his decanal term Ferme created a 21st Century Task Force to support the college’s strategic plan, spearheaded a college-wide commitment to sponsored research, expanded co-op and academic offerings, and created the position of Associate Dean for Inclusive Excellence and Community Partnerships. Notably, Ferme successfully led the college through COVID-19 campus-to-remote transition, and despite the global pandemic, balanced the college budget for the first time since 2012 by reducing debt through operational efficiencies, increased research, and philanthropic partnerships. Prior to UC, Ferme served as Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Northern Arizona University from 2017-2019 and Divisional Dean for the Arts and Humanities at the University of Colorado from 2015-2017, where he also served as Chair of the Department of French and Italian for six years. During his decanal term at Northern Arizona University, Ferme successfully addressed budget deficits, increased underrepresented faculty hires, and bolstered collaborations between students and cultural organizations within the Flagstaff area. At the University of Colorado, Ferme’s work also focused on curricular enhancements as well as support for underrepresented minorities. In 2014, Ferme was recognized for his pedagogy with the Boulder Faculty Assembly Excellence in Teaching Award and in 2017 for his work in Inclusive Excellence on behalf of staff and underrepresented graduate students with a Special Recognition Award from the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement. Ferme earned undergraduate degrees in Biology and Religious Studies at Brown University, a Master in Comparative Literature and Italian Studies from Indiana University and a PhD in Comparative Literature from UC Berkeley, where he was awarded Fulbright and Chancellor’s Fellowships. As a scholar, Ferme has published three monographs, three edited volumes, two scholarly translations and a bilingual collection of poetry, in addition to over 60 articles and reviews. Close × Brendan Mathews, MPH College of Law | College of Medicine (Epidemiology) Contact: mathewtb@mail.uc.edu College of Law | College of Medicine (Epidemiology) J.D./Ph.D. Candidate, 2023 Perinatal and Pediatric Epidemiologist, currently detailed to work on the COVID-19 Pandemic and Perinatal Hepatitis C. Law Student (JD) and PhD (Epidemiology) candidate, University of Cincinnati Close × Ebony L. Ruhland, PhD Assistant Professor, CECH Criminal Justice Contact: ruhlaney@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Ebony Ruhland received her Ph.D. from the School of Social Work at the University of Minnesota. Her research focuses on how criminal justice policies and practices impact individuals, families, and communities. Dr. Ruhland is currently working on research projects in four areas: 1) examining factors that lead to probation revocations, including the use of probation conditions, specifically supervision fees; 2) exploring factors parole members consider to determine readiness for release; 3) identifying ways to bridge police and community relationships; and 4) examining the impacts of parental incarceration on children. Through her research, Dr. Ruhland hopes to find ways to improve criminal justice and corrections policies to reduce mass incarceration, racial disparities, and collateral consequences while at the same time maintaining public safety. Prior to joining the faculty, Dr. Ruhland was the research director at the Robina Institute of Criminal Law and Criminal Justice at the University of Minnesota Law School. Her work has been published in Criminology, Family Court Review, and Children and Youth Services Review. Close × Cinnamon Pelly Urban League of Greater Southwest Ohio Contact: https://www.ulgso.org/contact-us Chief Operating Officer Urban League of Greater Southwest Ohio In 2019, the Urban League reached over 18,000 people through our Workforce Development Training, Youth and Financial Services, and community partnerships. The Urban League has served the region’s underserved populations since 1948. The Urban League of Greater Southwestern Ohio is recognized as the oldest and largest community-based organization devoted to empowering African American individuals and families. Close × Steve Schierholt Executive Director, State of Ohio Board of Pharmacy Contact: Steve has been executive director for almost seven years. Previously, he was assistant superintendent of the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation, an agency under the Ohio attorney general that manages the state’s criminal database and criminal records repository, operates crime labs throughout the state, and has a large investigation staff. He was in charge of each of those operational divisions. Ohio and other states across the country are still in the middle of an opioid epidemic. Prior to the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, that was front and center for us. We believe the Board plays a role in and contributes to the state’s efforts to combat that epidemic. Close × Theresa Flores Traffick Free Contact: https://www.traffickfree.com/contact.php Theresa Flores is a survivor. As a 15-year-old girl in a well-to-do white suburban neighborhood, Theresa survived two years of living hell being trafficked to men in their 20's and 30's. She was given as a reward to men in this criminal ring when they did a good job. She was an avid track runner, an older sister to three younger brothers, and looked like an all-American girl. No one, not even her parents, knew she was being trafficked for sex. Twenty years later, Theresa is speaking out on the reality of human trafficking in the U.S. She is the author of The Slave Across the Street, a USA Today and Wall Street Journal best seller, and The Sacred Bath. Her new international book, a top seller on the UK Sunday Times list, offers a look into her escape from her traffickers and her struggle to heal. Theresa has been invited as a guest on The 700 Club, The Today Show, and, MSNBC's Sex Slaves — The Teen Trade. She has also been featured on Nightline, America's Most Wanted, and For the Record as a sex slave survivor. Theresa is featured by the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center Museum in a traveling exhibit entitled, Invisible Slavery. Theresa has been awarded one of the top influential women in the Columbus, Ohio area. She was also recognized by current Ohio Governor Kaisch and received the Courage Award for her work in human trafficking. Her book, The Slave Across the Street has been on the Wall Street Journal and USA Today's Best Selling List several times. The e-book is listed as a #1 favorite in the categories of Women's Studies, Child Advocacy, Family Law and Political Studies. In addition, the audio version of her book was nominated for the 2011 Audie Award, being in the top 5 of all memoirs and biographies. Random House recently published a new version for the UK. Theresa is a licensed social worker for more than 20 years. She received her Master's in Counseling Education from the University of Dayton and a Bachelor's of Social Work from Ball State University. Close × Janet Moore University of Cincinnati's College of Law Contact: moore2jt@ucmail.uc.edu Janet Moore teaches Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure, Evidence, Civil Rights Litigation, and Capital Punishment. She received J.D. and M.A. (Philosophy) degrees from Duke University and a M.A. in Divinity from the University of Chicago. At Duke, she served as Editor-in-Chief of Law & Contemporary Problems. After graduation, she clerked for the Honorable J. Dickson Phillips, Jr., on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Professor Moore’s scholarship has been published or is forthcoming in journals such as Washington Law Review, Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, and Behavioral Sciences & the Law. Her research focuses on empowering low-income people to reduce the scope and harmful impacts of the carceral state. Her work draws on critical theory, interdisciplinary community-based research partnerships, and long experience in both capital defense and justice reform advocacy. Professor Moore co-convened the Indigent Defense Research Association, a national organization of practitioners, researchers, and policymakers who use data to improve public defense. She has served or is serving as an invited expert for the American Bar Association’s Indigent Defense Advisory Group, the Indigent Defense Commissions of Michigan and Texas, the National Center for State Courts, and the Steering and Amicus Committees of the National Association for Public Defense. Professor Moore’s scholarship also led to her roles co-chairing a national task force on discovery reform, drafting a model criminal discovery reform bill, and serving as an advisor during the drafting and passage of the Michael Morton Act, which reformed criminal discovery procedures in Texas. Awards include a 2020 University Faculty Excellence Award, 2018 University Cohen Award for Excellence in Teaching, 2018 University of Cincinnati College of Law Faculty Excellence Award, two University of Cincinnati College of Law Goldman Prizes for Teaching Excellence (2012 and 2015), and a Junior Scholar Paper Competition Award sponsored by the Criminal Justice Section of the Association of American Law Schools. Grants include a University of Cincinnati Research Council award to support an investigation into quality communication in the public defense setting, and an Ohio Transformation Fund award to undertake community-based participatory research on redefining public safety and making it equally accessible to all. The latter project received a 2018 Academic-Community Research Partnership Award from the University of Cincinnati Center for Clinical and Translational Science and Training; based on her work on both projects, Professor Moore was chosen to serve as a Distinguished Mentor for the 2018-2019 faculty cohort of the University’s Transdisciplinary Research Leadership Program. Close × Danilo Palazzo, PhD University of Cincinnati, School of Planning Director and Professor Contact: palazzdo@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Danilo Palazzo began work as the director of the School of Planning at the University of Cincinnati in 2012. His major fields of interest are urban planning and design. He has worked and conducted research in land use planning, landscape impact assessment and urban design, and has worked as a consultant for both public agencies and private firms. See More Close × Richard J. Harknett, PhD Professor and Department Head, Political Science Contact: harknerj@ucmail.uc.edu Richard J. Harknett is Professor and Head of the Department of Political Science and Chair of the Center for Cyber Strategy and Policy at the University of Cincinnati. He co-directors the Ohio Cyber Range Institute. He served as Scholar-in-Residence at US Cyber Command and National Security Agency and continues in an advisory role. He briefs on Capitol Hill and with other US government agencies, has presented in 11 countries and in over 100 media appearances. He has held two Fulbright Scholar appointments in Cyber Studies (Oxford University, UK) and International Relations (Diplomatic Academy, Vienna, Austria). He has authored over 50 publications in the areas of international relations theory, international security, and cyber security studies. Close × Jennifer Malat, PhD Associate Dean for Social Sciences, Professor of Sociology, and Director of The Cincinnati Project in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Cincinnati Contact: jennifer.malat@uc.edu Jennifer Malat, PhD is Associate Dean for Social Sciences, Professor of Sociology, and Director of The Cincinnati Project in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Cincinnati. Jennifer received her PhD in sociology from the University of Michigan. Her research focuses on how race affects health and health care experiences. See More Close × David Stradling, PhD Associate Dean for Humanities Professor Contact: david.stradling@uc.edu Stradling is Professor of History at the University of Cincinnati. He teaches urban and environmental history and is the author of several books, including Smokestacks and Progressives: Environmentalists, Engineers and Air Quality in America, 1881-1951 (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1999), The Nature of New York: An Environmental History of the Empire State (Cornell University Press, 2010), and with Richard Stradling, Where the River Burned: Carl Stokes and the Struggle to Save Cleveland (Cornell University Press, 2015). He lives in Cincinnati with his wife and two daughters. Close × Tom Rudin, MPA Board on Higher Education and Workforce Director at The National Academy of Sciences Contact: trudin@nas.edu Tom Rudin is the Director of the Board on Higher Education and Workforce (BHEW) at the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Prior to joining the Academies, Mr.Rudin served as senior vice president for career readiness and senior vice president for advocacy, government relations and development at the College Board. He was also vice president for government relations and executive director of grants planning and management at the College Board. Before joining the College Board, Mr.Rudin was a policy analyst at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. See More Close × Jon Fortt CNBC - “TechCheck” Co-Anchor Contact: Twitter @jonfortt Jon Fortt is co-anchor of CNBC’s bi-coastal tech-focused program “TechCheck” (M-F, 11AM-12PM ET/8AM-9AM PT); and creator of the weekly segments, “On the Other Hand” on “Squawk Box” and “Working Lunch” on “Power Lunch.” Previously, he co-anchored CNBC’s “Squawk Alley” and prior served as an on-air editor based at CNBC’s global headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. Fortt joined CNBC as technology correspondent in July 2010, working from CNBC’s Silicon Valley bureau where he covered the companies, start-ups and trends that are driving innovation in the industry. Fortt is the creator of Fortt Knox (https://www.youtube.com/forttknox), a digital show he launched in 2016 that features in-depth 1:1 interviews with founders, CEOs and innovators. In 2020, he created The Black Experience in America: The Course (https://forttmedia.com), an online resource for exploring history and culture. Fortt came to CNBC from Fortune magazine, where as a senior writer he covered both large technology companies— such as Cisco, Hewlett-Packard, and Microsoft—and trends, including cloud computing and the smartphone revolution. Before joining Fortune in 2007, Fortt was a senior editor at Business 2.0 magazine where he produced the “What Works” section. From 1999 to 2006, Fortt wrote and edited at the San Jose Mercury News, Silicon Valley’s hometown newspaper. There he contributed to several efforts that won awards from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers. Fortt graduated from DePauw University as a Media Fellow, with a B.A. in English. Follow Jon Fortt on LinkedIn at https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonfortt/. Close × Bridget Pratt, PhD Mater Senior Lecturer in Healthcare Ethics at Queensland Bioethics Centre at Australian Catholic University Contact: bridget.pratt@unimelb.edu.au Bridget is an ethics researcher and the Mater Senior Lecturer in Healthcare Ethics at Queensland Bioethics Centre at Australian Catholic University. She is a Visiting Professor at the Julius Centre for Global Health at Utrecht University in the Netherlands. She is an honorary at the Centre for Health Equity at the University of Melbourne. Bridget received her PhD in bioethics in 2012 and her Masters in International Health in 2009 from Monash University in Australia. From 2013 to 2015, Bridget was a Hecht-Levi fellow at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics and a research fellow in the Department of International Health at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. From 2013-2020, she was a research fellow in Centre for Health Equity at the School of Population and Global Health at the University of Melbourne. Bridget’s research interests include the ethics of global health research, health systems, and urban planning, with a focus on equity, social justice, and (more recently) ecological justice. In her work, she uses a combination of applied philosophy and qualitative methods, reflecting her belief that the most robust ethical guidance is informed by both theory and practice. She has developed ethical guidance on the following topics: research priority-setting, research governance, community engagement, ancillary care, capacity development, post-study benefits, and data sharing. Close × Jenifer Moore Senior Public Affairs Specialist Contact: A UC graduate and Cincinnati native, Jenifer Moore is an accomplished communications and public relations professional with more than six years’ expertise developing and executing all aspects of public outreach campaigns to increase media exposure and support strategic marketing initiatives. She currently serves as the Senior Public Affairs Specialist at AAA Allied Group, as well as a public speaker. Close × Rich Granger Managing Director, Workforce Development Contact: Rich Granger is Managing Director, Workforce Development at DriveOhio, the state government's one-stop shop to develop, test and deploy advanced mobility solutions across Ohio. He works with public and private partners including government, industry and educators to accelerate and launch a portfolio of workforce development programs that will prepare Ohio's existing and emerging workforce for the future of smart mobility. Granger graduated from The Ohio State University, where he received his MBA, BS and MS. Close × Dr. Carl Fichtenbaum MD, Professor of Medicine Contact: carl.fichtenbaum@uc.edu Dr. Carl Fichtenbaum, MD is an infectious disease specialist in Cincinnati, OH and has been practicing for 30 years. He graduated from University Of Missouri School Of Medicine-Kansas City in 1985 and specializes in infectious disease medicine. Close × John S. Hutton, MS, MD Assistant Professor, UC Department of Pediatrics Contact: john1.hutton@cchmc.org Dr. John S. Hutton, MS, MD, is a pediatrician and clinical researcher in the Division of General and Community Pediatrics and Reading and Literacy Discovery Center. His unique reading background includes over 20 years at the helm of Blue Manatee Children’s Bookstore and publication of over 25 children’s books, many with health-promoting themes, including screen time reduction (Baby Unplugged), reading and talking to babies, infant calming, safe sleep, breastfeeding, and ADHD. His books have been adopted in numerous statewide public health campaigns, distributed to over 2 million families, proceeds benefiting non-profit advocacy groups. He serves as “spokes-doctor” for the Read Aloud 15 MINUTES national campaign and works closely with the Reach Out and Read and other child literacy programs on local and national levels. See More Close × Patrick A. Ray, PhD Assistant Professor, Environmental Engineering CEAS Contact: patrick.ray@uc.edu Patrick Ray, PhD has a research focus of: Anthropogenic water resource systems are designed to sustain human civilization in balance with ecological wellbeing. Those systems are a mix of built infrastructure and natural pathways. They buffer us from flood and drought, and protect us from disease. In this research group we use numerical models to explore the net benefits of water system development alternatives, with an eye to their sustainability, distributional equity, and resilience to change. See More Close × Holly Bante, PhD, MPH, MS Assistant VP for Ethics In Industry Engagement Director, Conflict of Interest & Assistant Professor, College of Medicine Contact: holly.bante@uc.edu Bante received her PhD in bioethics and healthcare ethics from St. Louis University, where she also received her master’s in public health with a focus on community health. Her other areas of expertise include nutritional sciences, biochemistry and cellular and molecular biology. An alumna of the UC Women Lead leadership development program, Bante serves as the research ethicist for UC on the institution’s Center for Clinical and Translational Science Training and as the bioethicist for Hamilton County’s Public Health Department. In addition, she has overseen the review and management of financial conflicts of interest in research at the university and even co-authored a research casebook focusing on the responsible conduct of research at UC. See More Close × Richard Ittenbach, PhD Professor, UC Department of Pediatrics Contact: richard.ittenbach@cchmc.org Dr. Ittenbach has authored or co-authored more than 90 peer-reviewed publications in the behavioral and biomedical sciences. He has been funded as a co-investigator and biostatistician on a number of NIH / CDC grants. He currently serves on the editorial board of four journals and reviews for several others. Areas of current professional interest include measure and scale development, mixed methods designs, as well as empirical bioethics. See More Close × Christopher Lewis, MD Associate Professor of Family Medicine; Assistant Dean, Office of Diversity and Community Affairs Contact: christopher.lewis@uc.edu Dr. Lewis is family physician for UC Health in Cincinnati, where he serves a diverse population of patients from a variety of socioeconomic backgrounds representing over 20 countries. He also uses his knowledge of medicine and passion for teaching to instruct budding physicians. He is an Associate Professor of Family Medicine and Assistant Dean in the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine. See More Close × David Lentz, PhD Professor Executive Director, UC Center for Field Studies Contact: david.lentz@uc.edu David Lentz's primary research interests are in paleoethnobotany and paleoecology. He has conducted field research in many areas of North America, studying indigenous groups in Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, Mexico and El Salvador, as well as in the southwestern and southeastern US. To develop a greater understanding of how early cultures manipulated their environment through their agricultural and other land-use practices, he has examined the way in which indigenous people, including the Jicaque, Paya and the Kekchi-Maya, use plants. Much of his work has focused on the archaeobotany of the ancient Maya and Olmec, studying the differences in dietary habits among groups of varying economic status. Currently, he is investigating the land use practices of the ancient Maya at Tikal in Guatemala. He welcomes students interested in pursuing compatible research projects. See more Close × Kelly Cohen, PhD Professor of Aerospace Engineering & Engineering Mechanics, University of Cincinnati Contact: kelly.cohen@uc.edu Director of MOST AERO Labs and co-Director of UAV MASTER Labs conducting research in the following areas: Genetic Fuzzy AI, Collaborative UAV control and task planning, multi-agent decision making, UAV operations for enhanced situational awareness and resource allocation, disaster management using UAVs, estimation and control for feedback aerodynamic flow control, active vibration suppression, system identification of rotorcraft & morphing VTOL aircraft See More Close × Jess Kropczynski, PhD Assistant Professor at the School of Information Technology at the University of Cincinnati Contact: jess.kropczynski@uc.edu Jess Kropczynski, PhD is an Assistant Professor at the School of Information Technology at the University of Cincinnati. Her research is primarily in the design and evaluation of civic technology to support collective action in community networks. She has also worked with local and state governments to assess communication and information needs of target audiences in order to promote informed decision-making. Close × Jai Chabria Managing Director at Mercury Contact: jchabria@mercuryllc.com Jai Chabria serves as Managing Director in Mercury’s Columbus, Ohio office, where he specializes in public affairs and campaign strategy management. In this role, he is responsible for the leadership and management of all political and policy efforts across a host of arenas. Close × Kristen N. Campbell Graduate Assistant Contact: campb2kt@ucmail.uc.edu Kristen is currently a graduate student at the University of Cincinnati pursuing a PhD in the Community and Organizational Research for Action (CORA) Program. Her research focuses on Industrial and Organizational Psychology, more specifically her research investigates male allyship, leadership, leader identity, leadership training and development, and diversity. She also has experience teaching several courses, including psychology in the workplace, foundations of leadership, psychological statistics, community psychology, and psychology of interpersonal relations. Close × Michael Jones Associate Professor - Educator Department of Economics Contact: m.jones@uc.edu Michael Jones is an Associate Professor, Educator of Economics, at the University of Cincinnati. He earned his Ph.D. in Economics at the University of Notre Dame and his MBA. from the University of Cincinnati. Prior to receiving his Ph.D., he worked as a Senior Research Analyst for the Nielsen Company and as a Senior Business Development Manager at Cincinnati Bell. He is also the Academic Director for the Kautz-Uible Economics Institute and the Academic Director for the MS Applied Economics Program. Close × Carlie D. Trott Assistant Professor, A&S Psychology Contact: trottcd@ucmail.uc.edu My research is driven by the questions, “What does a psychology of transformative social change look like?” and “What psychosocial and structural factors facilitate or impede processes of transformative social change?” In this, my work draws upon theories within and beyond psychology (e.g., social movement, feminist, and empowerment theories), employs engaged research methods, and aims to advance social justice and environmental sustainability. Themes in my current research include: (1) Climate Change and Environmental Justice: Developing community-based, participatory, and arts-based methodologies to promote agency and collaborative action to address environmental problems in local settings; (2) Community Partnerships: Employing community-engaged research methods (e.g., participatory action research) to strengthen community resilience, foster interdisciplinary collaboration, and enhance undergraduate higher education; and (3) STEM Engagement: Applying interdisciplinary and action-based educational approaches to support STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) engagement by marginalized groups. Methodologically, my research is guided by the question, “What types of research approaches contribute to enabling—or enacting—transformative social change?”, or put differently, “How can we, as researchers, best position ourselves to bring about a more just and sustainable world through our methodological choices?” In this area, my current research explores the concept and practice of Prefigurative Methodologies, or applying means-ends consistency (i.e., “being the change”) in research and collaboration. Much of my work revolves around broad inclusivity, democratic engagement, reflective practice, methodological innovation, and social and environmental action. I teach undergraduate and graduate-level psychology courses, and I advise psychology doctoral students in UC’s Community and Organizational Research for Action (CORA) program.* My professional homepage is: https://www.cdtrott.com/. *I do not advise students in the Clinical program Close × Anne Delano Steinert Assistant Professor - Visiting Contact: steineao@ucmail.uc.edu Anne Delano Steinert studies public history and the history of the built environment with a focus on late-nineteenth and early-twentieth century Cincinnati. She is the founder of Cincinnati's Over-the-Rhine Museum and curator of the Look Here!, Schools for the City, and Finding Kenyon Barr exhibitions. At UC she has taught United States History II, Local History Research Methods, History of American Cemeteries, Introduction to Historic Preservation Planning (DAAP), History of Cincinnati, and Oral History Workshop. She has also taught The History of Housing in America at Xavier University. Steinert was co-creator, with Dr. Tracy Teslow, of the New Deal Neighbors oral history project. Steinert's dissertation, Standing Right Here: The Built Environment as a Tool for Historical Inquiry explores the built environment as a rich source for historians as they develop and investigate questions about the past. Close × Elizabeth A. Scarpelli Press Director UC Libraries Contact: elizabeth.scarpelli@uc.edu Scarpelli has over 25 years of experience working in publishing. Her role is to lead and provide oversight of all Press functions including acquisitions, marketing, administration and business, as well as to build a regional, national and international reputation for the University of Cincinnati Press as an innovative 21st century academic press. See More Close × Kate Bonansinga Director, School of Art; Professor Contact: kate.bonansinga@uc.edu Professor Bonansinga was founding director of Stanlee and Gerald Rubin Center for Visual Art at The University of Texas, El Paso where she curated many exhibitions and established an undergraduate minor in museum studies and taught courses in curatorial practice. She is in interested in museums as dynamic sites for learning, in the impact of art in gallery and non-gallery settings, and in the current methods that artists employ to make a difference in society and culture. See More Close × Jennifer H. Krivickas, MSLIS University of Cincinnati Assistant VP for Integrated Research Contact: Jennifer.Krivickas@uc.edu INTEGRATIVE ACTIVITIES UC Strategic Direction & Research Leadership and Development Outreach and engagement - Government, community, agency & academy Research infrastructure development - Internal funding program leadership & administration Research capacity development & expansion – Research knowledge & competence programming Research communications strategy development Research culture & ecosystem development Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences (AHSS): Research Programming & Development Administration: AHSS-specific Internal funding programing AHSS faculty performance analysis/framing & development Provide research leadership on the enterprise level Emerging Initiatives: Liaise, Lead, Develop, & Implement Urban Impact/Urban Futures: Strategic Planning and Implementation Leader Urban Impact/Urban Futures/Digital Futures: Program Development, Strategic Planning & Implementation Leader UC Center for Digital Scholarship: Liaison Greater Cincinnati Advanced Transportation Collaborative: Strategic Program Development UC Smart & Connected research interest group: Strategic Program Development UC Taft Humanities Research Center: Strategic Relationship Development Large Scale/High Profile Programs: Strategy, Structuring, & Administration UC Research & Innovation Week (Annual University Event: Spring) A2RU National Research Synthesis Meeting (Summer 2018) A2RU National Student Summit Conference (Spring 2020) Close × Neville Pinto, PhD University of Cincinnati President Contact: President@uc.edu Neville Pinto was appointed by the University of Cincinnati Board of Trustees to serve as the university’s 30th President. He took office on Feb. 20, 2017. Pinto was born in Mumbai, India. He was educated at the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, where he earned his bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering. He earned his MS and his PhD in chemical engineering at Penn State University. See More Close × Patrick Limbach, PhD University of Cincinnati Vice President for Research Contact: Pat.Limbach@uc.edu Pat Limbach is the Vice President for Research, Interim CEO and President of the UC Research Institute, an Ohio Eminent Scholar and Professor of Chemistry at the University of Cincinnati. He is a bioanalytical chemist with research interests in mass spectrometry, modified ribonucleic acids (RNAs), ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes and protein translation. After earning an undergraduate degree from Centre College in 1988, he studied at The Ohio State University. He received his PhD from OSU in 1992. He has served as Department Head in Chemistry at UC from 2005-2010 and as Interim Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies in the McMicken College of Arts and Sciences in 2013. He has served as the VP of Research since 2016. See More Close Steve Schierholt Neville Pinto, PhD Christopher Lewis, MD David Lentz, PhD Rich Granger Elizabeth A. Scarpelli Janet Moore John S. Hutton, MS, MD Bridget Pratt, PhD Jennifer Malat, PhD Michael Jones Daniel Meyer Jenifer Moore Kristen N. Campbell Cinnamon Pelly Anne Delano Steinert Patrick Limbach, PhD Theresa Flores Jillian Aurisano, PhD Richard Ittenbach, PhD Richard J. Harknett, PhD Kate Bonansinga Holly Bante, PhD, MPH, MS Valerio Ferme, PhD Patrick A. Ray, PhD Jon Fortt Tom Rudin, MPA Jennifer H. Krivickas, MSLIS Jai Chabria Danilo Palazzo, PhD Ebony L. Ruhland, PhD David Stradling, PhD Kelly Cohen, PhD Carlie D. Trott Brendan Mathews, MPH Dr. Carl Fichtenbaum Schedule Day 1 - MON 3-28 Day 2 - TUE 3-29 Day 3 - WED 3-30 Day 4 - THR 3-31 Day 5 - FRI 4-01 College Day Monday, March 28, 2022 Urban Futures Day Tuesday, March 29, 2022 Digital Futures Day Wednesday, March 30, 2022 Ethics Day Thursday, March 31, 2022 College Day Friday, April 01, 2022 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Research and Innovation Week Faculty Awards Ceremony Virtual 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM Collaborative Research Advancement Program Pilot Grants - Virtual Funding Pitch Day Virtual Join the Office of Research as each of the Pilot Grant finalists pitch their idea to an expertly assembled review panel. Each finalist will be allotted time for their formal pitch followed by a moderated Q&A with the Vice President for Research and the review panel. [9:00] Heng Wei, CEAS, “Brainbox Analytics for Connected Transportation Cyber-Physical System” [9:20] Je-Hyeong Bahk, CEAS, "Next-generation Air Conditioning Systems and Materials Based on Solid-State Thermoelectric Energy Conversion" [9:40] Stacey C. Schutte, CEAS, "Development and Validation of a Scaffold to Promote Skin Substitute Innervation" [10:00] John Martin, CEAS, "Injectable hydrogels to prevent premature bone fusion and major surgical intervention in the pediatric skull" [10:40] Vesselin Shanov, CEAS, "D Printing of 3D Graphene: A New Paradigm in Nanotechnology for Scalable Energy Conversion and Storage Applications" [11:00] Dongmei Feng, CEAS, "Innovative Approaches to Monitoring Surface Water Quality Using Unmanned Aerial Vehicle and Sensors" [11:20] Yujie Sun, A&S, "Energy Efficient and Decarbonized Electrochemical Production of Green Formaldehyde" [11:40] Vesna Dominika Novak, CEAS, "Enhancing Interpersonal Communication through Visualizations of Physiological Synchronization" [1:20] Carla Chifos, DAAP, "Identifying Cincinnati's Climate Network to Inform a Sustainable Urban Future" [1:40] Dong Gil Ko, Business, "A Diabetes Medication Decision Support System" RSVP HERE 4:00 PM - 5:30 PM The Annual State of Research Town Hall Hosted by University of Cincinnati Vice President for Research Dr. Patrick Limbach With introduction and opening remarks by University of Cincinnati President, Dr. Neville Pinto and closing remarks by Provost, Dr. Valerio Ferme Virtual Patrick Limbach, PhD Neville Pinto, PhD Valerio Ferme, PhD Join us for the University of Cincinnati annual State of Research Town Hall. President Neville Pinto will kick off R&I Week 2022 with opening remarks, followed by a presentation and moderated Q&A by Vice President for Research, Pat Limbach, and closing remarks by Provost, Valerio Ferme. WATCH VIDEO HERE 9:00 AM - 9:50 AM Research Action Teams Showcase Kate Bonansinga - Step Up to Art: Art on Cincinnati's Staircases to Improve Public Health and Neighborhood Connection Virtual Kate Bonansinga Can public art on Cincinnati’s exterior stairways improve the emotional and physical health of its residents and the connectivity between neighborhoods? Step Up to Art addresses this question by reimagining the pedestrian infrastructure, and consequently the future of social interaction, through the implementation of art to transform 19th-century stairways located in Cincinnati’s urban core. WATCH VIDEO HERE 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM Research Action Teams Showcase Anne Steinert - The Avondale Neighborhood History Initiative Virtual Anne Delano Steinert Beginning in the summer of 2021, the Avondale Neighborhood History Initiative empowers residents of Avondale, Cincinnati’s largest Black neighborhood, to discover, preserve, and present the history of their own neighborhood. This community-led process “prioritize[s] leadership by those most affected by injustice and inequity in order to effect structural and systemic changes that can support and sustain inclusive and healthy communities.”1 The expected outcomes of this process will be a trained team of lay community historians who will conduct extensive research and collaborate with humanities scholars to plan a multi-modal three-site public history exhibition including a Black history walking trail, digital exhibitions, panel exhibits, an oral history project, and school programs. WATCH VIDEO HERE 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM Research Action Teams Showcase Carlie Trott - Community-led Climate Resilience Planning for a More Equitable Cincinnati: Centering Equity and Justice through Neighborhood-level Advisory Councils Virtual Carlie D. Trott In Cincinnati and cities across the nation, racial and environmental injustices are intensified under a changing climate, fueling demands for climate justice. This interdisciplinary, community-engaged pilot project simultaneously enacts and examines what a more just, equitable, and sustainable neighborhood-level planning process might look like—one that centers the voices and actions of community members in critically-affected Cincinnati neighborhoods. WATCH VIDEO HERE 1:00 PM - 1:50 PM The Collaborative for Transdisciplinary Justice Transformation Presented by Janet Moore, Cinnamon Pelly, Ebony L. Ruhland, and Brendan Mathews Virtual Janet Moore Cinnamon Pelly Ebony L. Ruhland, PhD Brendan Mathews, MPH This exploratory project tackles the wicked problem of the U.S. criminal justice crisis by gathering academics, community organizers, and system officials to identify strategies for reducing reliance on criminal justice systems as a default approach for preventing and addressing harm. Work product will comprise both the WHAT and the HOW of this work through action plans to advance top-priority strategies and co-learning on what helps or hinders the development of transdisciplinary, collaborative action research in the criminal justice context. WATCH VIDEO HERE 12:00 PM - 2:00 PM Flashpoint Series: Confronting Crisis Moderated by Jai Chabria Queen City Club Jai Chabria Neville Pinto, PhD Theresa Flores Steve Schierholt Daniel Meyer Panelists: President Pinto - Higher Education Theresa Flores - Human Trafficking Crisis Steve Schierholt - Opioid Crisis Daniel Meyer - Workforce Talent This is the seventh iteration of the Digital Futures Flashpoint Series, a series developed to position University of Cincinnati’s experts as thought leaders amongst thought leaders in industry, government, and non-profit sectors. The topic of this panel discussion will be “Confronting Crisis: How leaders across the sectors are addressing problems that matter.” A recording of the panel discussion will be posted to the UC Digital Futures YouTube channel. For more information about this event, please email research@uc.edu. WATCH VIDEO HERE 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM IQ E-Pitch Kautz Attic Have you ever thought about a new, innovative idea for a product, service or social enterprise? Do you believe it could be the basis for a successful new startup or nonprofit? Then the Innovation Quest Elevator Pitch (IQ-E Pitch) Competition may be the perfect opportunity for you. The IQ E-Pitch competition simulates this experience so students gain real-world experience of what it would like to bring a business or nonprofit idea to fruition. And pitching your ideas is a lifelong skill. Every year, student teams will compete for over $10,000 in awards. Past winners have gone on to participate in local and national accelerator programs, receive mentorship, funding and launch successful businesses. RSVP HERE 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Leadership and Allyship Kristen Campbell, University of Cincinnati Virtual Kristen N. Campbell Join UC doctoral candidate, Kristen Campbell, for an interactive workshop on Leadership and Allyship. WATCH VIDEO HERE 10:30 AM - 11:30 AM Ethical Issues with Cryptocurrency Michael Jones, University of Cincinnati Virtual Michael Jones Join Michael Jones for a conversation on the ethical issues surrounding cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. About Michael Jones Michael Jones is an Associate Professor, Educator of Economics, at the University of Cincinnati. He earned his Ph.D. in Economics at the University of Notre Dame and his MBA. from the University of Cincinnati. Prior to receiving his Ph.D., he worked as a Senior Research Analyst for the Nielsen Company and as a Senior Business Development Manager at Cincinnati Bell. He is also the Academic Director for the Kautz-Uible Economics Institute and the Academic Director for the MS Applied Economics Program. WATCH VIDEO HERE 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM Leadership in Crisis Jon Fortt, Co-anchor CNBC Virtual Jon Fortt Jon Fortt will lead a discussion on Leadership in Crisis drawing from over two decades of experience covering leaders in the tech industry. Participants will also have a chance to sign-up for his online course The Black Experience in America for free. WATCH VIDEO HERE 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM Ethics and Equity in Academic Publishing a Conversation with Andrew Cullison Elizabeth Scarpelli, Director of University of Cincinnati Press and Andrew Cullison, Director of UC Ethics Center Virtual Elizabeth A. Scarpelli Elizabeth Scarpelli and Andrew Cullison will facilitate a conversation about ethics and equity issues in academic publishing. Topics will include the rising costs of textbooks and the open access movement. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the publishing process. We will also discuss what limits there should be if any on the publication of controversial topics. About Liz Scarpelli Elizabeth Scarpelli is the founding director of the University of Cincinnati Press. Prior to starting the press in 2017, she worked as marketing and sales director at Rutgers University Press, textbook sales director at Cambridge University Press, textbook district sales director at Prentice Hall-Pearson, and Publishing Services Director Baker and Taylor. In addition to director, she acquires books for the Press in social justice across all disciplines, educational studies, academic-community collaborations, Ohio and the greater Cincinnati area, open educational resources, and open-access textbooks. She has a BA from Fordham University in Communications and a MA in Higher Education Administration from the University of Cincinnati. She is a member of the DE&I task force and OD Advisory Council for UC Library and the Rapid Response Team for UC-College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services. She is also a member of AUPress, Library Publisher Coalition, and is on the board of the Midwest Independent Publishers Association. WATCH VIDEO HERE 5:00 PM - 6:00 PM Hutton Lecture: Confronting the Global Crisis in Knowledge Production Bridget Pratt, University of Melbourne Virtual Bridget Pratt, PhD Objectives As a result of participating in this activity, participants should be able to: 1. Identify five dimensions/components of social justice and how they are defined. 2. Discuss how health research can be designed to promote those five dimensions of social justice. 3. Explain and give examples of practical strategies to take these learnings forward in your own research practice. The University of Cincinnati is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. The University of Cincinnati designates this live activity for a maximum of 1 AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Bridget is an ethics researcher and the Mater Senior Lecturer in Healthcare Ethics at Queensland Bioethics Centre at Australian Catholic University. She is a Visiting Professor at the Julius Centre for Global Health at Utrecht University in the Netherlands. She is an honorary at the Centre for Health Equity at the University of Melbourne. Bridget received her PhD in bioethics in 2012 and her Masters in International Health in 2009 from Monash University in Australia. From 2013 to 2015, Bridget was a Hecht-Levi fellow at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics and a research fellow in the Department of International Health at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. From 2013-2020, she was a research fellow in Centre for Health Equity at the School of Population and Global Health at the University of Melbourne. Bridget’s research interests include the ethics of global health research, health systems, and urban planning, with a focus on equity, social justice, and (more recently) ecological justice. In her work, she uses a combination of applied philosophy and qualitative methods, reflecting her belief that the most robust ethical guidance is informed by both theory and practice. She has developed ethical guidance on the following topics: research priority-setting, research governance, community engagement, ancillary care, capacity development, post-study benefits, and data sharing. WATCH VIDEO HERE 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM Designing Visual Interfaces for Data-Driven Science Jillian Aurisano, PhD Visualization Lab 240H Braunstein – Geology-Math-Physics (GMP) Library Jillian Aurisano, PhD The classical scientific discoveries that we study in school tend to follow a script: A scientist observes something interesting, designs experiments to test a hypothesis, and inspects the results, often with the aid of optical instruments, such as microscopes and telescopes, which bring small and large phenomena into focus. Today, science increasingly follows a different ‘data-driven’ script. We try to understand complex phenomena by capturing data through sensors and digitized scientific instruments, or generating data through simulation and crowd-sourcing. Given the size and complexity of this data, we then need computational methods throughout data collection and analysis, including “black box” methods that can be difficult for people to understand. To steer a large, data-driven scientific project, researchers with diverse expertise, as well as other stakeholders and decision makers, need to collaborate and understand data and computational methods as a team. In other words, our ability to generate new knowledge, in this context, depends on how well we can leverage big data, steer opaque computational methods, and collaborate. Data visualization is a critical component of this process, bring people into the loop with data and computational methods, and providing a platform for collaboration and communication. In this seminar, I will present my research engineering visualization environments ‘beyond the desktop’- including large and immersive environments- which integrate multi-user interactions ‘beyond mouse and keyboard’- such as speech, movement, gestures and an array of personal devices. I will present future plans for collaborative, visualization environments at the University of Cincinnati, and will discuss how these environments can support research, education and outreach at UC. Registration has been closed. 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Research + Innovation Awards Ceremony Hosted by Office of Research Nippert West Patrick Limbach, PhD Valerio Ferme, PhD Vice President for Research Patrick Limbach and Provost Valerio Ferme will award the annual faculty excellence awards and the research mentoring awards to faculty nominated by college leadership in each category. In addition, the Vice President for Research will award two more sets of key recognitions. One will be the Office of Research Core Value Partnership Awards in recognition of University of Cincinnati faculty and staff partners who have demonstrated respectfulness, positivity, and overall professionalism in their interactions with the staff of The University of Cincinnati Office of Research. The second will be the Research Ethics in Action Awards promoting and rewarding actions and methods that go above and beyond to promote ethical research, scholarship, and/or workplace. These are sponsored by UC’s newly established Cincinnati Ethics Center and will be awarded one in each category of faculty, staff, and students. This event is by invitation only. Past Event Highlights Research Week 2018 Research + Innovation Week Awards Ceremony The 2018 Awardees were honored for their outstanding Faculty Excellence, Mentoring, and Core Values during the closing ceremony of the week. Research Week 2018 Instrumentations, Intelligence, Abundance, & Resilience Thought leaders explored animal behaviors, climate change, & environmental impacts while focusing on water quality & purification technology. Research Week 2019 Acute Care Research Symposium The Acute Care Research Council is bringing together expertise across the AHC to foster collaboration and empower ACR stakeholders amidst the ever-challenging risks that are unique to the acute care setting. Presentations included EFIC trials from CCHMC and UC, updates on changes to the Common Rule, Research vs. Critical Illness, and concluded with an audience-participation panel session. Research Week 2018 Hutton Ethics Leadership – Informed Consent: Evidence and Practice Approaches to gaining respect and consent in the research recruitment process were evaluated through informed and practical applications. Research Week 2018 Disruption ! The UC Innovation Quest Elevator Pitch Competition gave inventors & entrepreneurs the opportunity to present a short "elevator pitch" to investors in order to commercialize their ideas and launch start-up ventures. Research Week 2018 The Presidential Kickoff The President of the University of Cincinnati, Neville G. Pinto, kicked off Research + Innovation Week by welcoming thought leaders and intellectuals over refreshments. Back to the top of the page. University of Cincinnati Office of Research University Hall Suite 540 ML0663 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0663 Contact us Notice of Emergency & Safety Information This link opens in a new window. Notice of Non-Discrimination This link opens in a new window. Clery and HEOA Notice This link opens in a new window. eAccessibility Concern This link opens in a new window. Privacy Statement This link opens in a new window. Copyright Information © 2021