Skip to main content Search Temple.edu Temple InfoReady Research Listservs Blackstone LaunchPad Ambler Field Station Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Research Menu OVPR Updates About Us COVID-19 Updates Announcements Research Development Resources OVPR Staff Forms Staff Directory Contact Us Research Administration Principal Investigator Policy Pre Award Management Post Award Management Research Compliance Work Environment Export Control Conflict of Interest Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) University Laboratory & Animal Resources (ULAR) Meet Our Staff Innovation Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff ERA ERA facts What is ERA? Training Tutorials & Documentation FAQ ERA Login Meet Our Staff Home › Innovation › Blackstone LaunchPad Blackstone LaunchPad Launch ideas that create economic impact. The Blackstone LaunchPad provides Temple University students and alumni with the skills, knowledge, and guidance to transform ideas into companies. Sign Up Highlights Temple alumna's cosmetic company wins beauty award 20+ Events and workshops each semester $2.6M+ Fundraised by LaunchPad ventures About the Blackstone LaunchPad & Techstars Calling all innovators! Let's talk about STARTUPS Temple University's Blackstone LaunchPad is a campus based program, designed to support and mentor students and alumni to develop innovative ideas - regardless of major, experience or discipline. If you have an idea for a business, or you’re already running your own business, we have the resources and knowledge to help you move your idea forward. The program is designed to help drive economic development in communities, increasing the likelihood that students remain and develop their ideas within the region. The LaunchPad Provides: 1:1 Mentoring: Schedule a meeting, with a LaunchPad mentor and we’ll dig into your challenges and help you find pathways to success! Your idea can be in any stage. Events and Workshops: We host a broad range of events designed to teach new skills and connect you with other innovators. Past workshops have covered topics like App development, Personal Branding, Social Media marketing and How to Start a Nonprofit. View our current lineup here. Access and Resources: The Blackstone LaunchPad is part of the Office of the Vice President for Research. This relationship gives our ventures access to exclusive events, fellowships and funding! Contact us for a list of current opportunities. We’re here to help and look forward to meeting you! Currently, all meetings and events are in person and virtual. Schedule a 1:1 meeting with Blackstone LaunchPad coaches via the StartupTree Portal and we’ll meet via Zoom or in the Launcpad. The Blackstone LaunchPad at Temple University is committed to fostering, cultivating and preserving a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. We seek to support the development of innovation skills in our students and ventures including creativity, critical thinking, communication, strategic thinking, and problem solving to find and develop creative solutions for the complex world we live in regardless of whether they pursue entrepreneurship beyond their student experience. Schedule a meeting View Upcoming Events Contact The Blackstone LaunchPad is open Monday — Friday from 9:00am - 5:00pm. Can’t make our office hours? Get in touch for after-hours availability. Address: Lower Level of the Student Center, 1755 North 13th Street, Lower Level, Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: (215) 204-2499 Email: launch@temple.edu Schedule a 1:1 meeting Subscribe * indicates required Email Address * First Name * Last Name * In This Section Invention Submission Available Technologies Contracts and Agreements Office of Technology Commercialization and Business Development Temple Startups Blackstone LaunchPad Temple Policies FAQ Meet Our Staff Temple University Office of Research 1801 N. Broad Street, Conwell Hall, Room 401 Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple