Skip to Content Office of Research Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Contact Office of Research Newsletter Syracuse University Cluster Hires Initiative COVID-19 ResourcesExpand Collapse section COVID-19 Research Facility Guidance Resuming Face-to-Face Human Participant Research Research-Related Travel Requests Visiting Scholar Requests For ResearchersExpand Collapse section Funding your research Internal Grant Programs Animal and human research Foreign Influence in University ResearchExpand Collapse section FAQs on Foreign Research Relationships Intellectual property and working with industry Find collaborators Researcher services and support Centers and institutes Trainings and presentations Syracuse University Research Partnerships Office of Research UnitsExpand Collapse section Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Protections Technology Transfer Proposal Support ServicesExpand Collapse section About Proposal Support Services Research Development Team Funding your research Internal Grant Programs Limited Submissions Sponsored Funding Opportunities Trainings and presentations Opportunities to Become a Peer Reviewer Proposal Support Services Inquiry Form The SOURCE – Undergraduate Research & Creative EngagementExpand Collapse section About The SOURCE For StudentsExpand Collapse section Register with The SOURCE SOURCE Funding Opportunities For FacultyExpand Collapse section SOURCE Funding Opportunities for Faculty Student Research Mentors Campus Partners Events News Giving Research News Search Search Home The SOURCE In this Section The SOURCE Spring Grant Deadlines Link STUDENTS: Apply for faculty-mentored independent project funding for Summer 2022 and/or Academic Year 2022-23. This application is for both SOURCE and Honors Program Awards. Links are below. February 17 – Required “Intent to Apply” form due March 3 – Complete application due Learn more here FACULTY MENTORS: Apply for research assistant funding for Summer 2022, Summer + Fall 2022, or Fall 2022. Applications now open, follow the links below. March 3 – Required “Intent to Apply” form due March 10 – Complete application due Learn more here Undergraduate Research FAQs Link What is undergraduate research and why should I get involved? Link Undergraduate research work takes many forms but is characterized by a spirit of inquiry, participation in the active conversation of a scholarly, professional or creative field of study, and guidance by a faculty mentor. Student research and creative projects may be produced by students at all levels in classes, labs, recitals, as part of a distinction or thesis program, or independently. Participating in undergraduate research helps you apply what you are learning in class, find a mentor, improve your critical thinking and problem-solving skills, and pursue a topic that fascinates you. How do I get started? Link SOURCE offers regular information sessions to help you get started thinking about your participation in research activities and to connect you with the appropriate resources. Talk to your professors about their research, connect with your department leadership, and talk to fellow students. SOURCE Student Research Mentors also hold weekly office hours to assist students. Start reading the literature in your field of study and look at the faculty research interests on your department web page. What is a faculty mentor and how do I find one? Link All student research projects must be guided by a professor. Some students assist faculty with their larger research projects and others propose their own independent project with guidance from the faculty mentor. Before you approach a prospective faculty mentor, be sure that you have examined their research interests on the department web page, and even read some of their recent publications. Request a meeting with a professional email and come prepared to discuss your own interests, skills, availability and future goals. It will likely take some persistence to find a mentor; SOURCE is here to help support you through the process. How do I find funding for my research? Link SOURCE offers Summer Grants of up to $2,800 and Academic Year grants of up to $5,000 for research expenses including supplies, materials, travel, payroll, or participant compensation. Summer funding may be used for living expenses. These grant applications are available each October and February. Expansion Grants of up to $1,000 are available on an ongoing basis. Application requires a description of your project (including budget and timeline), letter from your faculty mentor, resume and transcript. There are other programs and opportunities to support undergraduate research and creative work on campus, including the Honors Program, the McNair Scholars Program, LSAMP and many others. How do I present and/or publish my work? Link Syracuse University offers many opportunities to present student research at departmental poster sessions, thesis review presentations, Honors, McNair, or LSAMP presentation days, and SOURCE celebrations of research. You may also want to pursue presenting off-campus at a national conference, where you can receive invaluable feedback from experts in your field and participate in the larger scholarly or creative conversation. Some students might author or co-author publications with their faculty mentor in peer-reviewed journals or journals of undergraduate research. The Syracuse Office of Undergraduate Research & Creative Engagement (The SOURCE) 238 Bird Library (look for the glass cube on the 2nd floor!) 315-443-2091 / ugresearch@syr.edu In this Section About The SOURCE For Students For Faculty Student Research Mentors Campus Partners Events News Giving 226 Lyman Hall | Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315-443-2492 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy