Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home Announcements Three New Action Items for NIH Applicants, PIs, and Senior/Key Personnel Sponsored Projects Administration Three New Action Items for NIH Applicants, PIs, and Senior/Key Personnel Dear NIH Researchers, As previously announced, as of January 25, 2022, NIH will require new Biographical Sketches and Other Support format pages containing substantial changes. The updated forms and instructions are required for use in applications and Research Performance Progress Reports (RPPRs) due on or after January 25, 2022. IMPORTANT: the revised Other Support form requires three new action items for all PIs and senior/key persons: Sign Electronically: The PI and other senior/key personnel must electronically sign the Other Support form to certify the accuracy of the information provided, and adhere to Columbia University’s Electronic Signature Policy. A typed name is not an electronic signature and is not acceptable. Acceptable methods for obtaining electronic signature are DocuSign, and a departmentally licensed version of Adobe. PIs and Departments must retain the “original” electronic signatures, prior to the conversion to PDF format, and prior to submission to Sponsored Projects Administration (SPA). Include Non-U.S. Supporting Documentation in JIT/RPPR Other Support Packet: With the electronically signed Other Support forms, PIs and senior/key persons must include copies of contracts/agreements specific to any non-U.S. appointments and/or employment for any non-U.S. activities and resources that are reported in Other Support. If the contracts/agreements are not in English, recipients must provide translated copies. These materials must be provided to SPA as part of the JIT/RPPR Other Support packet. Upload Non-U.S. Supporting Documentation to Rascal: A new Rascal module has been launched to allow PIs and senior/key personnel to upload their supporting documentation for a limited, parallel compliance review by the Office of Research Compliance and Training (ORCT). Documentation need only be uploaded one time in the life of the agreement, but amendments and modifications must be uploaded. This upload is separate from the submission to SPA noted above. We strongly recommend that individuals who have non-U.S. agreements related to Other Support upload the documentation to Rascal now, so that ORCT can review before submission to NIH. To learn more about the changes to the Biosketches and Other Support forms, complying with the electronic signature mandate, and the new Rascal module for supporting documentation, sign up for an upcoming webinar: Schedule (click on the hyperlinks below to register, using a Columbia-affiliated email address. Other email addresses will be rejected): Wednesday, November 17, 1-2pm EST Thursday, December 9, 1-2pm EST Monday, January 10, 2022, 1-2pm EST We will continue to provide updates as we get closer to January 25, 2022. We are also happy to discuss these updates at upcoming faculty or administrator meeting as scheduling permits. For questions about these webinars and speaking engagements, please reach out to Stephanie Scott at [email protected]. For more information, see our NIH Researcher Disclosure Requirements webpage, and our supplemental FAQs. Sincerely, Naomi J. Schrag, JD Vice President for Research Compliance, Training & Policy Office of Research Compliance & Training William Berger Executive Director Sponsored Projects Administration November 10, 2021 Tags NIH Updates Office of Research Compliance and Training Sponsored Projects Administration News May 13, 2022 Correction to FY22 Stipend Levels for NRSA Programs January 13, 2022 New Information Concerning E-Signatures for NIH Other Support/Town Hall Part II tomorrow November 10, 2021 Three New Action Items for NIH Applicants, PIs, and Senior/Key Personnel November 09, 2021 Update and reminders for clinical trial registration and results reporting September 22, 2021 Schedule of Webinars: NIH Biosketches and Other Support Updates Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close