Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search Talent Acquisition & Professional Development HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Talent Acquisition & Professional Development Talent Acquisition & Professional Development For organizations building the technological workforce of the future, there are a number of ways to access the deep well of talent at Georgia Tech. Whether it’s involvement in career fairs, or through Tech’s extensive online resume book, or by simply raising an organization’s profile on campus, recruitment usually begins with the Center for Career Discovery and Development (C2D2), the nexus for all things career related at Georgia Tech. C2D2 is not only the central hub of information and resources helping scholars from all majors find work (and learn how work works). It’s also the conduit between an organization’s employment needs and Georgia Tech’s most gifted resources: students who begin their career education the moment they arrive on campus. An employer relations team stands ready to guide any organization in all aspects of its search for cutting-edge employees, whether person-to-person, or through a suite of tools, programs, and resources: The employer relations team system allows employers to post job openings, review applicant resumes, request space for on-campus interviews, select and invite students to interviews, and tap into many other job management functions. CareerBuzz is available 24x7. Georgia Tech’s co-op and internship programs offer opportunities for students to gain experience in their fields and provide employers with well-educated student talent. In addition to C2D2’s All Majors Career Fairs, schools and departments across campus have their own focused career fairs, bringing students and employers together. Prospective employers can educate students directly about their organizations through information sessions, and raise their visibility on campus by becoming a corporate partner. Develop Your Workforce Proactive organizations can keep pace with shifting market forces, technological advances, and the changing demands on their workforce by offering professional development and other opportunities for career advancement to attract, engage, and retain top employees. Georgia Tech has a track record of more than 100 years of professional and continuing education in technology-based fields, and the programs are designed to fit employee schedules, with learning opportunities online, face-to-face, or at employer locations throughout the U.S. and worldwide. About 60 percent of global executives say they struggle to keep their workforces current and relevant. Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE) has programs to upskill employees today, and the university’s student body is overflowing with multidisciplinary talent to build the workforce and technology leadership of tomorrow. Have a question? Student Recruitment Contact: Center for Career Discovery and Development Professional Workforce Education Contact: Georgia Tech Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN