Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Research Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Compliance Find Funding Offices Resources Safety Training The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Announcements Calendar Directory News Office Locations Research Honors and Awards Additional Information Anti-Harassment Compliance in the News Conflict of Interest Economic Sanctions and Restricted Parties Export Controls International Research Policies and Handbooks Research Misconduct Research with Animals Research with Humans Responsible Conduct of Research Science & Security Office of Research Compliance and Training Report an Incident Additional Topics Find Funding using Pivot Proposal Submission Center Grants Limited Submissions RISE Internal Seed Funds Postdoc Funding Opportunities Executive Vice President for Research Clinical Trials Office Environmental Health & Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institute of Comparative Medicine Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives and Development Sponsored Projects Administration Core & Shared Facilities Finder Directory Event Planning on Campus Forms Institutional Information Join a Study Online Research Systems Policies and Handbooks Postdoc Resources Rascal Research Data at Columbia Research Pharmacy Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Resources for Chairs Shared Research Computing Additional Resources Biological Controlled Substances Fire Hazardous Materials and Sustainability Laboratory and Research Occupational Radiation and Laser Safety Training Good Clinical Practice Human Subjects Protection IND/IDE Assistance Program Laboratory Animals Learn about Sponsored Projects PCRI Symposium Postdoc Training Rascal Research and Data Integrity Program (ReaDI) Responsible Conduct of Research Safety Trainings Sponsored Projects Certificate Program Training Finder Additional Training Columbia | Research You are here: Home COVID-19 Research Ramp-up Ramp-up of Human Subjects Research Ramp-up of Human Subjects Research Updated 12/9/2021, 12:40 pm - updated Health Screening Form for Research Participants (see below) Health Screening Form for Research Participants (rev 12/8/2021) Spanish Translation - Health Screening Form for Research Participants (rev 12/8/2021) See also this communication to CUIMC IRB Principal Investigators and Study Coordinators from HRPO/IRBs dated 6/8/2020 regarding human subjects research activities. Expand all Collapse all 1 Should study elements that do not require being on site be performed remotely? Yes, to the extent possible, studies should be re-designed to maximize remote interaction, generally by telephone. For example, consent forms and questionnaires can be administered remotely rather than in-person. The goal should be to minimize the time on-site for research participants and staff while maintaining the integrity of the research. Additional guidance for communicating remotely with study participants is available in the COVID-19 Research FAQs. 2 Do changes to research protocols that change in-person administration of consent forms and questionnaires to remote administration require submission of a modification? No, if these are changes that are being implemented to avoid an imminent hazard to study participants. Federal regulations allow such changes without prospective IRB approval. At the time of the next submission to the IRB for the study, or when directed by the IRB, whichever occurs first, report the changes that have been made. 3 I can no longer use the location in which my in-person study visits were conducted. Should I change the location of necessary in-person contacts, for example, to draw blood or obtain physical measurements, in order to restart my research? Yes, if the new location is appropriate for clinical research. 4 Do changes of location require a modification to the IRB protocol? No, if these are changes that are being implemented to avoid an imminent hazard to study participants. Federal regulations allow such changes without prospective IRB approval. At the time of the next submission to the IRB for the study, or when directed by the IRB, whichever occurs first, report the changes that have been made. 5 Should I screen all research subjects before they come to the site and when they arrive? - updated 7/5/2020 Participants should be called prior to their scheduled visit and screened for symptoms of COVID-19 on the phone. If positive screen, advised not to come in and contact provider/health facility. If negative, they are invited to come to the research site. When a participant arrives at the research site, the research staff must conduct a COVID-19 screening in accordance with New York State and Columbia requirements at the entrance to the facility. The screening form must be retained for 21 days and then shredded. See Health Screening Form for Research Participants. 6 What should I do if a research participant screens positive? If it is the day before the visit, the visit should be cancelled and the participant instructed to wear a face covering, self-isolate, and contact his or her health care provider for further instruction. Testing at a publicly accessible site should be recommended. If it is the day of the visit, the same procedure should be followed. Do not bring a participant who screens positive into the facility. 7 Can research participants come into our facility? CUIMC currently has a no visitors policy, which will remain in place after resumption of clinical research. Research participants must be met in person by a research assistant with an ID badge clearly visible at the security desk of the building where they are scheduled to be seen and accompanied at all times while they are in the facility, including to (but not into) the restroom. CUIMC security will be made aware that when clinical research resumes, accompanied research participants may enter the facility. 8 Do we need to provide PPE for research participants? Research participants should be instructed the day prior to the visit to wear their own face covering. If the participant does not have one when he or she arrives, the research staff should provide a surgical mask. Face covering is required at all times within CUIMC. 9 We are doing research procedures that involve risk of aerosolization (e.g. sputum induction). What are the requirements? - updated 7/18/2020 These procedures must be done in accordance with NYP policies and procedures for safety in the context of COVID-19. Please check to be sure that you remain current, as these procedures are periodically updated. As of this time, individuals performing these procedures must use appropriate PPE including N95 mask, surgical mask covering it, goggles or eye shield, gloves, and gown and have received appropriate training in donning and doffing PPE. Research staff using N95 masks must have a fit test performed prior to the re-start of the research procedures that require the N95 mask. Fit testing for clinical research coordinators and staff is available at Workforce Health and Safety or by appointment with Environmental Health and Safety. In addition, the research participant must have a negative COVID-19 PCR test within the 5 days prior to the procedure. The test may be done here or alternatively written documentation of an outside test result may be provided (paper copy or through the patient portal in Epic) including date of the test, participant’s name and date of birth (second identifier required), type of test, and test result. The test must be a PCR test (not an antigen test) and obtained with nasopharyngeal swab. Keep in mind that turn-around time for outside testing may be inconsistent with the requirement that the test be done within 5 days of the procedure. 10 Upon receipt of the IRB’s notice that my study is in a priority tier that can be reactivated, is any other approval required to restart? Yes, your department/School must also provide approval, in accordance with plans for internal prioritization and timing, so that requirements of New York State Phase II restart can be met, e.g., physical distancing, PPE, screening. Your department/School will receive notification when your study has been determined to be eligible for reactivation. 11 Do I need to document my N95 fit-test and training? Yes. Documentation of each fit-test and training must be maintained in the research records in the Research Personnel Training and Qualifications section of the regulatory documents, including the dates of the fit-test and certificates of training. 12 Are study monitors allowed at CUIMC to conduct Site Initiation Visits (SIVs) and monitoring visits? - added 10/2/2020 No. The no visitor policy is applicable to study monitors for onsite monitoring visits. All monitoring visits should be conducted remotely. If you have any questions, contact the Clinical Trials Office at [email protected]. Research Ramp-up Main Page COVID-19: Research Ramp-up Ramp-up Forms and Resources NYP COVID-19 Clinical Screening Process Health Screening Form for Research Participants (rev 12/8/21) Spanish Translation - Health Screening Form for Research Participants (rev 12/8/2021) Other Human Subjects Research FAQs Ramp-down FAQs, see COVID-19: Impact on Human Subjects Research Policies & Procedures for Researchers Conducting COVID-19 Research Communicating with Research Subjects Remotely Office of the Executive Vice President for Research313 Low Library, 116th and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close