or by: Colleges, Institutes & Centers Agencies Faculty & Staff RESEARCH AT UCF | Post-Doc Program | Share Feedback Research Commercialization Research Integrity & Compliance Centers & Institutes Research Development Research Foundation What Researchers Need to Know about Huron Grants, PARIS in Wake of Knight Vision and Workday Roll Out May 24, 2022 – To get ready for Workday, some systems you or your staff use to conduct research (Huron Grants, PARIS, and AURORA) will be temporarily offline and changing in order to fully align with the new Workday system. Click here for details » Office of Research Staff Featured in National Magazine May 16, 2022 – Three Office of Research employees had their work recently published in the National Council of University Research Administrators (NCURA) Magazine. Click here for details » Easy Access to Some of Your Information is Going Away When Workday Arrives May 4, 2022 – Changes to the way we conduct daily work at UCF are coming fast. The implementation of Workday is July 1 and it will change everything from the way we file our timesheets to where to find your compensation history. Click here for details » What is SET and Why Should You Should Care Feb. 14, 2022 – Curious about what the heck SET is? Join UCF's Senior Vice President for Administration and Finance Gerald Hector and the Knight Vision Service Enhancement Transformation (SET) Project Champions for a session aimed at answering just that. Click here for details » Dr. Liz Klonoff on 5-Day Rule 5-Day Rule Policy and FAQs » Graduate Studies Spotlight Click here for details » ORLANDO, April 26, 2021 – The Office of Research has just published the PI (Principal Investigator) Handbook as a resource for researchers at UCF. Click here for details » NSF CAREER AWARDS The National Science Foundation CAREER Awards recognize early career professionals with promising researchers who have the potential to serve as academic role models and lead their respective fields. Click here for details » New Sponsored Awards A big shout-out to all UCF investigators who received sponsored awards in April! The list includes total expected amount of funding for each listed award. Congratulations to all! Click here for list » More Events » Annual Report ORC Information Administration Organization Chart Current Funding Opportunities How to Submit a Proposal Access to Huron Grants Funding History FL High Tech Corridor Council UCF Strategic Plan UCF Job Opportunities Mission and Vision Statement Contact Information © 1997 Office of Research & Commercialization. All rights reserved. Address: 12201 Research Parkway, Suite 501 Orlando, FL 32826-3246 Phone: 407.823.3778 Fax: 407.823.3299 Contact | IT Group | Privacy Policy | Site Credit Staff Directory