Skip to main content University of Southern California USC Research Primary Menu About Research and Scholarship Research Administration Funding Training Events Announcements MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search Students and Postdocs Students and Postdocs ▶ Postdoctoral Scholars ▶ Graduate Students ▶ Undergraduate Students ▶ High School Students Working with faculty, USC students at all levels have opportunities to participate in research in labs, the community, the field, and sometimes around the globe. Below you can find opportunities and financial aid to do research as a student. To add or update a program below, please fill out this form. Postdoctoral Scholars USC’s Office of Postdoctoral Affairs and individual schools manage postdoctoral scholar programs. In addition to working directly with faculty advisors and mentors, postdoctoral scholars can get involved in USC research centers and institutes: Center for Advanced Genocide Research awards doctoral candidates, USC undergraduate and graduate students who use the Visual History Archive or other genocide-related resources at USC for innovative research projects across academic disciplines. Learn more. Institute on Inequalities in Global Health offers several fellowship opportunities for students and postdocs interested in conducting research both in the U.S. and internationally. Learn more. Wrigley Marine Science Center offers several opportunities for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers. Through fellowships at Catalina Island and on the USC main campus, graduate students and postdocs develop research capabilities, advance fundamental knowledge, and become the next generation of science leaders. Learn more. Find more USC research centers and institutes. Diversity in Research provides examples of existing programs for students and postdocs at USC that support diversity and scholarship in research as a foundation toward future efforts. Learn more. Center for Excellence in Research (CER) organizes workshops for USC researchers. These courses are designed to provide faculty, postdocs and graduate students across all fields of study with specialized skills and knowledge in seeking funding from government, foundation, and corporate organizations as well as a variety of other topics. Learn more. Center for Excellence in Teaching (CET) promotes a vibrant culture of teaching and learning for the university community, for schools, and for faculty. Through a variety of programs and resources for USC faculty and future faculty (graduate fellows/TAs), CET encourages best practices in course design, instruction, and evaluation. Learn more. Office of International Services supports USC’s international students and scholars with information about visas, employment, etc. Learn more. Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) Program is attracting outstanding postdoctoral researchers to USC and providing them for successful academic careers by providing them excellent opportunities and mentoring. Learn more. Back to Top Graduate Students USC’s Graduate School and individual schools manage graduate student programs. In addition to working directly with faculty advisors and mentors, graduate students can get involved in USC research centers and institutes: Bridge Art + Science Alliance (BASA) at the Bridge Institute is a self-governed creation of USC students who are creating connections and catalyzing collaborations between artists and scientists. Learn more. Center for Advanced Genocide Research awards doctoral candidates, USC undergraduate and graduate students who use the Visual History Archive or other genocide-related resources at USC for innovative research projects across academic disciplines. Learn more. Center for Dark Energy Biosphere Investigations (C-DEBI) offers a number of resources and funding for graduate students who are contemplating a career in scientific research. Learn more. Institute on Inequalities in Global Health offers several fellowship opportunities for students and postdocs interested in conducting research both in the U.S. and internationally. Learn more. Wrigley Institute for Environmental Studies offers several opportunities for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers. Through fellowships at Catalina Island and on the USC main campus, graduate students and postdocs develop research capabilities, advance fundamental knowledge, and become the next generation of science leaders. Learn more. Find more USC research centers and institutes. Blackstone Launchpad pairs students with consultants to help the develop their business ideas. As their ideas mature, students are connected to venture coaches to help them bring their ideas to market. Learn more. Center for Excellence in Research (CER) organizes workshops for USC researchers. These courses are designed to provide faculty, postdocs and graduate students across all fields of study with specialized skills and knowledge in seeking funding from government, foundation, and corporate organizations as well as a variety of other topics. Learn more. Center for Excellence in Teaching (CET) promotes a vibrant culture of teaching and learning for the university community, for schools, and for faculty. Through a variety of programs and resources for USC faculty and future faculty (graduate fellows/TAs), CET encourages best practices in course design, instruction, and evaluation. Learn more. Diversity in Research provides examples of existing programs for students and postdocs at USC that support diversity and scholarship in research as a foundation toward future efforts. Learn more. Lloyd Greif Center for Entrepreneurial Studies offers interdisciplinary minors and a certificate in entrepreneurship for undergraduates, as well as an entrepreneurship concentration for MBA students, a master of science in entrepreneurship and innovation and a graduate certificate in technology commercialization. Learn more. Spark SC is a student-run entrepreneurship ecosystem at USC dedicated to building communities, unlocking opportunities, and expanding social impact for current and budding entrepreneurs. Learn more. USC Stevens Student Innovator Showcase provides an opportunity for USC students to present their inventions, startups and prototypes (in all disciplines) to faculty and leaders from the local venture, entrepreneur, and business community. Learn more. Viterbi Student Innovation is a crucible for innovation for Viterbi students, who learn how to turn their ideas or research into successful business ventures, including educational programs, new venture creation support and networking opportunities. Learn more. Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) Program is facilitating the recruitment of outstanding postdoctoral researchers to USC by supplementing their financial support packages. Learn more. Back to Top Undergraduate Students Undergraduate research is a key part of USC’s research ecosystem and USC’s many researchers, labs, center, and institutes actively welcome undergraduate researchers. Undergraduate research opportunities in various USC schools: Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences Price Sol Price School of Public Policy Viterbi School of Engineering In addition to working directly with faculty advisors and mentors, undergraduate students can get involved in USC research centers and institutes: Bridge Art + Science Alliance (BASA) at the Bridge Institute is a self-governed creation of USC students who are creating connections and catalyzing collaborations between artists and scientists. Learn more. Bridge Undergraduate Science Program (BUGS) at the Bridge Institute is training the next generation of students to surmount disciplinary boundaries as they work to better understand the human body. Learn more. Center for Advanced Genocide Research awards doctoral candidates, USC undergraduate and graduate students who use the Visual History Archive or other genocide-related resources at USC for innovative research projects across academic disciplines. Learn more. Center for Dark Energy Biosphere Investigations (C-DEBI) offers a number of resources and funding for undergraduate students who are contemplating a career in scientific research. Learn more. Children’s Hospital Los Angeles Medical Preceptorship Program is for pre-medical students interested in learning more about the field of Pediatric Medicine. Students will shadow physicians at CHLA after commencement. Learn more. Diabetes and Obesity Research Institute (DORI) funds a summer research experience providing outstanding underrepresented students in science and medicine an opportunity to gain meaningful exposure to the exceptional research and clinical programs at the Keck School of Medicine (KSOM) of USC. Learn more. Institute on Inequalities in Global Health offers several fellowship opportunities for students and postdocs interested in conducting research both in the U.S. and internationally. Learn more. Kaiser Permanente Medical Preceptorship Program is for pre-medical students interested in learning more about the field of General Medicine. Students will shadow physicians in five different Kaiser Permanente departments during spring break. Learn more. Lloyd Greif Center for Entrepreneurial Studies offers interdisciplinary minors and a certificate in entrepreneurship for undergraduates, as well as an entrepreneurship concentration for MBA students, a master of science in entrepreneurship and innovation and a graduate certificate in technology commercialization. Learn more. Southern California Earthquake Center seeks to enhance the competency and diversity of the STEM workforce by engaging students and early career scientists in the SCEC Community and offers a number of undergraduate opportunities. Learn more. Wrigley Institute for Environmental Studies offers several programs and internships for undergraduate students including the Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU). Learn more. Find more USC research centers and institutes. Blackstone Launchpad pairs students with consultants to help the develop their business ideas. As their ideas mature, students are connected to venture coaches to help them bring their ideas to market. Learn more. Discovery Scholars is intended to recognize and celebrate USC undergraduates who have excelled academically while making a meaningful contribution to their field of study through exceptional new scholarship or artistic work. Learn more. Diversity in Research provides examples of existing programs for students and postdocs at USC that support diversity and scholarship in research as a foundation toward future efforts. Learn more. Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF) Program is a partnership between Dornsife and the Office of the Provost to identify, support, and mentor highly qualified underrepresented undergraduate students and other students interested in diversifying faculties in higher education, and encourage them to pursue a Ph.D. in fields where diversity has not been historically present. Learn more. Provost’s Undergraduate Research Fellowships provides a limited number of fellowships for undergraduate research each academic year in the fall, spring and summer terms. Learn more. Office of Undergraduate Programs (UGP) offers a limited number of travel grants each year to undergraduate students presenting at a professional conference in their academic field of study. Learn more. Research Gateway Scholars Program is a student academic services initiative sponsored by the Office of Undergraduate Programs to provide educational and career advising, academic skills building workshops/seminars, research training and other research-related opportunities. Learn more. SOAR program provides funding to Dornsife undergraduates for participation as a research assistant in a faculty member’s project during the fall and spring semesters of the academic year. For students interested in summer undergraduate research funding, please visit the SURF/SHURE page. Learn more. Spark SC is a student-run entrepreneurship ecosystem at USC dedicated to building communities, unlocking opportunities, and expanding social impact for current and budding entrepreneurs. Learn more. Stevens Student Innovator Showcase provides an opportunity for USC students to present their inventions, startups and prototypes (in all disciplines) to faculty and leaders from the local venture, entrepreneur, and business community. Learn more. Undergraduate Student Government Academic Research Fund provides support for undergraduate students who conduct research projects, attend academic conferences, and pursue other research-oriented academic interests. Learn more. Undergraduate Symposium provides students with the unique opportunity to exhibit and share examples of their significant research and creativity with the university community. Learn more. Viterbi Student Innovation is a crucible for innovation for Viterbi students, who learn how to turn their ideas or research into successful business ventures, including educational programs, new venture creation support and networking opportunities. Learn more. Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) Program is providing upper level undergraduate students with first-hand experience in laboratory based research, and to thereby encourage promising students to pursue graduate studies in the sciences and/or engineering. Learn more. Federal Work-Study Awards are eligible to be used for undergraduate research positions. Back to Top High School Students In addition to instruction-based programs for high-school students, USC features a variety of research opportunities for high school students at USC research centers and institutes: Bridge Undergraduate Science Program (BUGS-Jr) at the Bridge Institute is training the next generation of students to surmount disciplinary boundaries as they work to better understand the human body. Learn more. Center for Dark Energy Biosphere Investigations (C-DEBI) offers a weeklong Summer Science Camp providing high school students from underrepresented backgrounds the opportunity to visit the USC Wrigley Marine Science Center on Catalina Island. Learn more. Summer High School Intensive in Next-Generation Engineering (SHINE) is a unique seven-week opportunity to participate in hands-on engineering laboratory and/or computational research focused on real-world problems at one of the top-ranked engineering schools in the nation. Learn more. USC STAR Program brings together USC scientists and engineers with Francisco Bravo Medical Magnet High School students in Los Angeles. STAR students learn about STEM in world class laboratories that advances scientific breakthroughs at the bench and around the globe. Learn more. USC Young Researchers Program is a six-week program that matches talented and motivated Los Angeles-area high school rising seniors with USC research groups for a summer of research under the supervision of faculty and graduate students. Learn more. Back to Top Quick Links About Offices & People Announcements Research and Scholarship Research Administration Funding Limited Submissions COVID-19 Research Continuity Total Access for Research Administration Centers and Institutes Shared Resources Students and Postdocs Training Events Office of Research Services Department of Animal Resources Department of Contracts and Grants Institute for Creative Technologies Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Office for the Protection of Research Subjects Office of Research Advancement Office of Research Initiatives and Facilities Office of Research Integrity Research Technology Services USC Stevens Center for Innovation University of Southern CaliforniaContent managed by USC Research Twitter TwitterThe logo for the social media platform Twitter. LinkedIn LinkedInThe logo for the social media platform LinkedIn. Slack LinkAn icon of a link in a chain. YouTube YouTubeThe logo for video sharing platform YouTube. COVID Update 3/31: Starting April 4, Trojan Check will no longer be required, but all should continue to check symptoms whenever coming to campus. Click to learn more.