Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Research Guides Newspaper Databases Home Search this Guide Search Newspaper Databases A guide to newspaper databases available through the SU Libraries system Home Local Newspapers National Newspapers (U.S.) International Newspapers Historical Newspapers ProQuest TDM Studio (Text Mining) Digital New York Times Digital Wall Street Journal Coronavirus Misinformation (via NewsGuard) Coronavirus Misinformation Center (NewsGuard Technologies, Inc.) Founded in 2018, NewsGuard is a for-profit venture that assigns a nutrition label assessment – and ultimately a color coded rating - to digital news sources. The inventory of dubious news websites tracked by NewsGuard has always been free to access NewsGuard is waiving its $2.95 personal membership fee for the duration of the COVID-19 crisis for those interested in downloading their full browser plugin (works on Chrome, Safari, Edge and Firefox browsers, and on Edge mobile browsers for iOS and Android devices) The tool can be applied for news website evaluation not limited to coverage of the Coronavirus Students and other researchers are encouraged to apply a wide assessment criteria when evaluating sources, and in most cases not limit their assessments or rankings to any single review source or service (seek out multiple points of view in multiple respected sources). See also the section of short online learning modules, under "Evaluating Information," within SU Libraries Credo Information Literacy Tutorials. These review key principles for assessing information sources. More about NewsGuard: Coverage of NewsGuard by Vox - Feb 13,2019 NewsGuard Profile in American Libraries magazine - Nov 1, 2019 NewsGuard Rating Process and Criteria “Why Trust Us?” >and see also, subpages identifying NewsGuard’s leadership team, advisory board and investors Recently Added at Syracuse University (since 2018) Documenting White Supremacy and its Opponents in the 1920s National, regional, and local newspapers published around the 1920s in the United States, documenting the voices of multiple organizations that either opposed or supported white supremacy and nationalism. Daily Mail Historical Archive, 1896-2004 Digitized, page image access to the Daily Mail Historical Archive, 1896-2004 newspaper, and cruise-ship Daily Mail Atlantic Edition, from 1923—1931. Independent Voices Open access alternative press and underground newspapers, magazines and journals from the 1960s to 1980s, including feminist, LGBT, minority, campus, community, GI, right-wing, and small literary presses. Caribbean Newspapers Newspapers published throughout the Caribbean between 1718 and 1876. Latin American Newspapers 2 Newspapers published throughout Latin America between 1822 and 1922. Hispanic American Newspapers Hispanic American newspapers published in the United States from 1808 to 1980. Service Newspapers of World War Two Service newspapers from the British Library; Imperial War Museums; US Army Heritage and Education Center, US Army War College; Alexander Turnbull Library, National Library of New Zealand; Berlin State Library - Prussian Cultural Heritage. Syracuse University Libraries - Newspaper Databases Use links in this guide's menu bar to browse SU Libraries newspaper database options for Local, National, and International news. Or, if seeking a specific newspaper title use the 'journal title' search box in the library's 'classic catalog.' See also, the link on this home page to the A to Z list of all News & Newspaper databases available via SU Libraries. Ask Us! Ask Us! Live Chat Call Us: 315-443-4083 Text Us: 315-464-0744 Email us: libref@syr.edu Find a librarian Report an Electronic Resource Issue Policy on Access to Licensed Web Resources Suggest a Title Newspaper Databases A to Z OR - Visit A to Z list of News & Newspaper databases available via SU Libraries New York Times and Wall Street Journal Short videos sharing access points for the New York Times and Wall Street Journal Thanks to SU Libraries Video Intern, Benjamin Piers, for creating these Syracuse.com Since Fall of 2020, Syracuse University and Advance Media have an agreement in place offering exclusive access behind the Syracuse.com paywall, available to all current SU students, faculty and staff. An excellent access point to digital journalism covering the Syracuse and Central New York Region. To activate that Syracuse.com access, use these websites SU Students: https://www.syracuse.com/digitalsubscription/sustudent/ SU Faculty/Staff: https://www.syracuse.com/digitalsubscription/sufaculty/ Troubleshooting account problems: This is not access managed by Syracuse University Libraries. When addressing account registration problems, consult Syracuse.com's page for digital subscription FAQs. For problem solving not addressed there, Syracuse.com offers these options for getting further help - Syracuse.com Customer Care Email: digitalservice@syracuse.com Syracuse.com Customer Care Telephone Numbers: 1-315-470-6397, or toll free at - 1-800-765-3231 For deep archival access to newspaper article text for the Syracuse Post-Standard, as well as other Syracuse newspapers active at one time but no longer published, visit the database, Syracuse News Sources (aka: Newsbank) [coverage is mid 1980s up to the present] and/or NewspaperArchive [a deeper archive of fully page imaged Syracuse newspapers, covering early 2020 and reaching back to the 19th Century. Beyond Syracuse, NewspaperArchive offers historical newspaper titles for many other cities and towns in New York State.] Circulation Data Media Intelligence Center (Alliance for Audited Media) Data on readership, demographics, circulation and digital activity for North American newspaper and magazine publications. A helpful tool for media planning, buying and market comparisons. Quick Links to Often Used Newspaper Databases ProQuest News & Newspapers One stop search portal for multiple news and newspaper databases: AltPressWatch, Canadian Newsstand Complete, Ethnic Newswatch, Gannett Newsstand, GenderWatch and ProQuest Newsstand. ProQuest Historical Newspapers are also included, with access to the complete seventy year run of the Chicago Defender and full page scans reaching back to the founding 19th century issues for the Los Angeles Times, New York Times, Wall Street Journal and Washington Post. ProQuest Newsstand segment includes articles from over 1300 major newspapers, news websites and blogs including New York Times, Wall Street Journal & Washington Post. Access World News Current and past worldwide news sources, including international, local and regional newspapers, media transcripts, wire service content, college newspaper articles, magazines, blogs, video and audio. Access World News Access Tip: Access World News (Newsbank) has been expanding its range of full page imaged newspaper archives of current and recent content, with titles like The Guardian, The Independent, and more local to the SU Hill, Syracuse Post-Standard. A handy way to see all such page imaged newspaper collections from the Access World News homepage is to click on the A-Z Source List, then click on the column heading for "Format" so that the format type called "image" sorts the page imaged newspaper titles toward the top of that A to Z list. Black Life in America News content from U.S. and global news sources, including African American publications, covering topics such as voting rights, voter suppression and disenfranchisement, segregation and civil rights, prejudice, discrimination, activism and protest movements. Nexis Uni News, business, and legal sources covering world news and companies, and including U.S. Supreme Court decisions, state, federal and international law, regulations, and law reviews. PressReader Full page scans of international newspapers from hundreds of countries around the world. Coverage generally includes the most recent 60 to 90 days only. New York State Newspapers A subset of Gale Onefile News, this database includes articles from newspapers from around New York State. News Articles from over 1,000 major U.S. regional, national, and local newspapers. New York Times? For options available to access the digital New York Times online, see the New York Times Guide. Syracuse University students and faculty have access to a number of indexes and full-text article databases that include New York Times coverage, including: ProQuest (1980- present; plus older page imaged historical NYT content) *Article text only for recent decades, but also includes content classified as "historical newspapers," covering NYT fully page imaged newspapers dating back to the founding issues of that publication in the 19th Century ProQuest Recent Newspapers: The New York Times (2008 - recent; 3 month embargo) *Contains NYT newspaper page images typically excluded from many other article text only databases (including photos, charts, advertising, maps, etc.). Three month embargo between current date and most recent available page scans. For article content from the New York Times within those more recent 3 month recent timeframes, consult other databases (e.g., ProQuest or Nexis Uni, etc.) or visit the New York Times Guide for Digital NYT access ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times (1851 - recent years) *Contains NYT newspaper page scans covering the founding of the publication in 1851 thru to more recent years, up thru four years of the current date on an annual rolling recency archival basis. For recent page imaging to within 3 months of the current date, consult ProQuest Recent Newspapers: The New York Times Search The Classic Catalog for Newspaper Titles Search for: in Journal TitleTitleAuthorKeywords (Boolean)Subject HeadingCall NumberDocument Call Numbers Next: Local Newspapers >> Last Updated: May 13, 2022 5:26 PM URL: https://researchguides.library.syr.edu/newspapers Print This Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Journalism Tags: journalism, newspapers Syracuse University Libraries • 222 Waverly Avenue, Syracuse NY 13244 Copyright © 2021 Syracuse University Libraries Report an Accessibility Concern