Skip to main content User account menu Penn Home Business Services College Houses & Academic Services Off-Campus Services Penn Dining My Home At Penn Search Search Home Living Options Living Options What it's Like to #LIVEPENN The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy, and in some cases, a living room and kitchen. Living Options College Houses Graduate Housing Room Furnishings Rates & Pricing Room Selection Room Selection Ready to apply for housing? The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy. Room Selection How To Apply Medical Accommodations Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Additional Information Moving Info Moving info Getting ready & getting there Move-In and Move-Out are two of the biggest times of year for Penn Housing, and we're here to make the transition easy. Planning ahead is a good way to successfully meet academic demands while organizing to move in or out of your residence. Moving Info Before You Move In Day Of Move-In Before You Move Out Day Of Move-Out About Us About Us We’re Here to Help Living and learning, at their best, combine to create the ultimate university experience at Penn. At Residential Services, we are here to connect you to the resources at the center of your residential experience. About Us Continuous Improvement Student Employment RSAB RESOURCES RESIDENTIAL HANDBOOK Search News & Updates Contact Us Penn Home Business Services College Houses & Academic Services Off-Campus Services Penn Dining My Home At Penn Main navigation Home Living Options Living Options What it's Like to #LIVEPENN The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy, and in some cases, a living room and kitchen. Living Options College Houses Graduate Housing Room Furnishings Rates & Pricing Room Selection Room Selection Ready to apply for housing? The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy. Room Selection How To Apply Medical Accommodations Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Additional Information Moving Info Moving info Getting ready & getting there Move-In and Move-Out are two of the biggest times of year for Penn Housing, and we're here to make the transition easy. Planning ahead is a good way to successfully meet academic demands while organizing to move in or out of your residence. Moving Info Before You Move In Day Of Move-In Before You Move Out Day Of Move-Out About Us About Us We’re Here to Help Living and learning, at their best, combine to create the ultimate university experience at Penn. At Residential Services, we are here to connect you to the resources at the center of your residential experience. About Us Continuous Improvement Student Employment RSAB RESOURCES RESIDENTIAL HANDBOOK Search Menu Living Options Your New Home Away From Home Penn’s residential system is comprised of twelve undergraduate College Houses and Sansom Place. Approximately 5,500 undergraduates live on campus. The College Houses offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities – making it easy to find what’s right for you. For our graduate students, we offer housing in Sansom Place, which is home to 500 graduate students. First-Year, Four-Year, or UpperClass Finding What's Right For You At Penn, we’ve curated our living options to make sure there’s something for everyone. Our First-Year Houses are designed specifically to cater to students living on our campus for the first time, where they can be surrounded by peers in a similar situation. Students may want the opportunity to get to know upperclassmen with whom they can grow through their time at Penn – making a Four-Year House the best fit for them. For our upperclass students, the high-rises continue the community students developed their first year with apartment-style living. View First-Year Options View Four-Year Options View Upperclass Options Amenities Comfort and Convenience In addition to the great communities in each of our College Houses and Sansom Place, our buildings also have operational amenities to support your residential experience. Information Centers + 24-Hour Security Electronic locks to building, room + bedroom Free laundry facilities for residents Free Wi-Fi + Cable TV Mail + package rooms Ready to make your Room Selection Apply Now Everything you need To Succeed Resources Program Communities Shared Curiosity. Shared Space. Penn's College Houses provide a wide range of programs, services, and social opportunities for residents including over 25 Program Communities, which offer you the opportunity to live in smaller, tightly-knit housing with other students and faculty who share a passion for a particular subject. From focuses on film or the visual arts, to science and technology, politics and the humanities, there are a range of topics from which to choose. Learn More Caption Hill College House students in a double room with two person occupancy. Caption Lauder College House Caption Hill College House Atrium Caption Gregory College House Caption Stouffer College House Common Room Caption Kings Court English House Green Roof Caption The Quadrangle Gate Our Urban Campus At the Center of it All Penn’s campus provides the perfect match of safety and comfort mixed with opportunity and excitement. Our College Houses are located literally at the center of it all – close to classes, dining cafés, public transportation, shops, and restaurants – while also equipped with secure entrance procedures. View Location Check out all that Penn has to offer though the Penn Admissions virtual tour. Explore The Campus Department of Residential Services Sansom Place West 3650 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Hours: Monday–Friday, 9AM–5PM Phone: 215-898-3547 Email: living@upenn.edu Living Options Living Options College Houses Graduate Housing Room Amenities Rates & Pricing About Us About Us Continuous Improvement Student Employment RSAB Residential Handbook Resources Resources News + Updates Contact Us Privacy Policy Moving Info Moving Info Before You Move In Day of Move-In Before You Move Out Day of Move-Out Room Selection Room Selection How To Apply Medical Accommodations Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Additional Information Copyright © 2020 University of Pennsylvania | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help