Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life About Learn about our staff, Residential Peer Leaders, the Residential Council, and how to contact us. Sub Navigation In This Section Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators About Learn about our staff, Residential Peer Leaders, the Residential Council, and how to contact us. At Brown, we recognize that a large part of personal growth and development inevitably takes place outside of the classroom. This is the result of intentional programs and services as well as myriad interpersonal interactions with members of the Brown community. As such, living on campus is critically important to the overall educational experience. Students will benefit from guidance and support from their interconnected community of peer scholars as well as several peer counselors who live in the residence halls and interact with faculty and deans to create a vibrant living and learning environment. Residency Requirement In order to benefit fully from Brown's exceptional learning environment, undergraduates are required to live in on-campus housing through semester 6. Exceptions to Brown’s residential policy are granted in 12-month increments to Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) students, married students living with their spouse locally, and students living with their parent(s) locally. Undergraduate students who fall into these categories and intend to live off-campus must complete a non-resident intent form and submit supporting documentation. Our Mission The Office of Residential Life fosters a safe and inclusive living environment that promotes student learning and holistic development by providing tools to help students navigate the social, emotional, and academic elements of their residential experience. This includes providing opportunities for students to hold themselves and each other accountable, ultimately preparing them to be responsible global citizens. Our Work Staff members in the Office of Residential Life... Facilitate the daily operations and renewal/renovations of 49 residence halls housing students throughout the academic year, Summer Session and Wintersession. Manage all aspects of housing assignments, early-arrivals, break housing, extended housing, and off-campus permissions; Facilitate housing accommodations in conjunction with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) Participate in a year-round 24-7 on-call emergency-response rotation; Select, train, and supervise 150 paraprofessional student staff members, Residential Peer Leaders (RPLs), who create engaging and respectful residential environments that enhance the student experience; and Provide educational programming to promote student learning and holistic development. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page