Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Add-Onskara_humphreys2021-04-20T09:24:02-05:00 ADD-ONS Our add-on services bring everything you might need while on-campus to you. These add-ons are optional and may have additional rental or service fees. Dining All freshmen (classified as U1s) living in the residence halls or White Creek and all members of the Corps of Cadets are required to have a minimum dining plan for the full academic year (or remainder of the academic year for those that apply for housing after the beginning of the fall semester). See Dining Plans for On Campus Students or for Corps of Cadets. Your dining plan sign up is a separate process and dining fees will NOT be collected with the Housing Application Fee. If you later decide to change your dining plan selection, you must do so at University Dining – Chartwells online. All appeals must be directed to the University Dining – Chartwells. All Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors (classified as U2 and above) living in the residence halls or White Creek Apartments and all students living in the Gardens Apartments are welcome to sign up for a meal plan, but it is not required. For more information, visit University Dining – Chartwells online. Microwave Ovens & Combination Refrigerator/Microwave Appliances Combination refrigerator/microwave appliances are available for individuals to rent at the beginning of each semester through CollegeProducts.com. The MicroChill is a UL-Approved appliance which combines the refrigerator, freezer, and microwave into one unit that operates off of one plug. Residents may have two MicroChill units per room if both are rented or purchased through CollegeProducts.com. Otherwise, residents may have one microwave and two refrigerators per room (a MicroChill unit counts as one of each). To rent or purchase a MicroChill unit, call College Products at 800.875.0457 or visit collegeproducts.com/store/tamu/. College Products and the Department of Residence Life have teamed up to offer several great products to Texas A&M students. To see a full list of available products, please visit College Products.com. Parking The Department of Residence Life is not responsible for the regulation of on-campus parking. For more information on parking passes, parking, garage access, visitor parking and more please contact the Department of Transportation Services (979.862.PARK) located in room 108 of the John J. Koldus Building, or visit them online at transport.tamu.edu. Personal Safes Bringing electronics or valuables to campus in the fall? Need a secure place to store them? The QuicKey™ safe is the perfect answer! This safe complies with the storage rule for Concealed Handgun License holders. College Products’ QuicKey™ safe adds security to your most valuable items. Safely store small electronics, important documents, and money. The QuicKey™ safe offers both a keypad entry and a magnetic strip reader. All safes will be delivered to campus for move-in day! To rent or purchase a QuicKey™ safe, call College Products at 800.875.0457 or visit collegeproducts.com/store/tamu/. College Products and the Department of Residence Life have teamed up to offer several great products to Texas A&M students. To see a full list of available products, please visit College Products online. Storage Units (Gardens Apartments Only) Current Residents of the Gardens Apts may request to rent a storage closet at the Gardens Apartments. For availability and costs, please contact the Gardens Apartment Office at 979.845.2261 or Gardens-Apartments@reslife.tamu.edu . Telephone Service With the increase in cell phone usage, telephone service is only provided in on-campus student rooms and apartments on a paid subscription basis. Connecting Service Residents who prefer local landline phone service may request installation of telephone service by selecting Connect Landline Telephone Service on the Landline Telephone Service Action form. For students who pay their rent by the semester, the cost for local landline telephone service is $90 for the Fall and Spring semesters, or $45 for either the Spring semester or the Summer. For students who pay their rent by the month, the cost is $10/month. Once the service is connected, the full amount of the payment is non-refundable. Cancelling a Service Request A request to connect can only be cancelled prior to the student arriving on campus. The student will need to select Cancel Request to Connect/Change Landline Telephone Service on the Landline Telephone Service Action form as soon as they determine that phone service is no longer desired to avoid charges. Changing Service Residents changing rooms or apartments will need to select Change Existing Landline Telephone Service on the Landline Telephone Service Action form. There is no cost for the change. Residents should submit this form as soon as their move date is confirmed to ensure uninterrupted service. Disconnecting Service Residents who pay rent by the semester do not need to disconnect their landline telephone service. Phone service will automatically be disconnected in May for Fall/Spring or Spring only requests and in August for Summer requests unless a new form selecting Connect Landline Telephone Service form is submitted by the resident for the next term. Telephone service cannot be disconnected in the middle of a semester, and no refunds will be given if a student moves out of the room/apartment or withdraws from school during the middle of a semester. Residents who pay rent by the month will need to select Disconnect Landline Telephone Service on the Landline Telephone Service Action when phone service is no longer desired. For questions or more information about local telephone service in on-campus student rooms or apartments, please visit Facilities & Operations online; call 979.862.3150; or email facilities-operations@reslife.tamu.edu. Continue to Landline Telephone Action Request Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Honoring Excellence Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Start Collaborating Type of Living Learning Communities (Text Version) Amenities Add-Ons Landline Telephone Service Action Form Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Accommodations/Accessibility Options Laundry Facilities Recreation & Game Rooms Television Service Get Involved Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs AALANA (African American, Latinx American, Native/Islander Pacific American) Aggie ACHIEVE Engineering Village @ The Commons FACTION ( Freshmen in ACTION) Geosciences Honors (University Honors Program) IDEAS (Information Investigation) Leadership (L3C) Spectrum (Neuro Diversity) Startup (Entrepreneurship) Sustainability THRIVE: Wellness Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Custodial & Maintenance Services Evaluation Structural Pest Control Customer Evaluation Health, Safety, & Security Community-Oriented Police Services (C.O.P.S.) Sustainability E-Waste Bins Green Dorm Certification Sustainability Awards Trex Plastics Challenge U-Challenge U-Challenge Application PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top