Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Accessibility Brown University offers a range of campus housing that accommodates the needs of students with disabilities. Breadcrumb Home Living On Campus Sub Navigation In This Section Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Accessibility Brown University offers a range of campus housing that accommodates the needs of students with disabilities. Brown University has been revising policies and performing various campus projects to improve accessibility to its facilities for students with disabilities. These improvements run the gamut from short term to long term projects. Although some of some of the improvements remain to be completed, we want to report to the community on the substantial progress that has been made in completing projects that improve the infrastructure of housing for students with disabilities. Program Houses The following facilities where program houses are located have been renovated so that they are accessible to and usable by students with disabilities: Machado House (87 Prospect Street), French House and Hispanic House; and King House (154 Hope Street), St. Anthony Hall. Learn more about Brown Program Houses Campus Residence Hall and Site Improvements The university has improved the accessibility features of dormitory rooms, bathrooms and kitchens, as well as the routes of travel on campus to accessible dormitories. Although some work remains to be completed, improvements have been made at the following facilities: Everett-Poland Buxton House Chapin House Diman House Goddard House Harkness House Marcy House Olney House Sears House Andrews Hall Champlin Hall Emery Hall Barbour Hall Vartan Gregorian Quads Young Orchard #2 The university has also completed projects creating accessible parking in the lower level of the Power Street parking garage, and renovating Sharpe Refectory dining hall for the purpose of making the dining hall accessible to students with disabilities. Brown University has campus accessibility maps that provide information about campus accessibility, including but not limited to information about accessible paths of travel, lift locations, and accessible parking. For specific information about accessibility, please contact the Office of Student Accessibility Services, at 401-863-9588 (phone), 401-863-9588 (TTY), 401-863-1444 (fax), SAS@Brown.edu (e-mail). Wheelchair Lifts Some Brown University residence halls have key-operated interior lifts for accessibility for students with disabilities. These lifts are located in the following dormitory facilities: Buxton Chapin Diman Goddard Harkness Marcy Olney Sears Perkins King House Any student with a disability who needs access to the lift residing in a dorm where a lift is present will be issued a key that will allow them unassisted entry to and use of the lifts. These lift keys are maintained by Residential Life and are issued for the academic school year as a part of the accommodation process. Guest Access Invited guests of resident students or campus visitors attending on-campus functions may also request lift keys from Residential Life. Upon conclusion of the guest's visit, the lift key should be returned to Residential Life as soon as possible. Outside of normal business hours, a lift key may be obtained from the Department of Public Safety. To make arrangements to acquire a lift key, please contact the Department of Public Safety at (401) 863-3322 or (401) 863-1740 (TTY). Disability Accommodations Accommodations in the residence halls are made based on recommendations from Brown's office of Student Accessibility Services (401-863-9588, voice and TTY). Students requesting residential accommodations should refer to the Housing Accommodations and Requests Process web page. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Accessibility Open details for Accessibility Bookmark this Page