Skip to Main Content UCLA Residential Life Communities Rules Academics Get Involved UCLA Residential Life Room Reservations Places to Study Media Requests Event Proposals Funding Requests Publicity Requests Welcome to Residential Life! View Upcoming Events Need urgent assistance? Call Housing Dispatch. (310) 206-9633 Housing Dispatch is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Need help with a tough conversation? Residential Life can help you resolve a challenging situation in your community. Read our tips to get started! Need to talk to someone? Housing Dispatch is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Residential Life phone line is open Monday to Friday from 8:30 AM to 5:30 PM. If you leave a message after hours, we’ll respond by the next business day. Check out the Guidebook. The UCLA Student Affairs Guidebook will help you plan out your year and navigate your new Bruin experience. Go to the Student Affairs website Download the UCLA Housing app. App Store Google Play Follow @uclahousing on social. Twitter Instagram TikTok YouTube Facebook Join a virtual Living Learning Community. Visit the Communities page This Is Where Community Happens Welcome to UCLA Residential Life, where a diverse community of scholars are working day and night to make a positive impact on the world. Here you will find safe, supportive, and inclusive living-learning communities that will propel your academic success and encourage your personal and professional growth. Our Communities We Keep Students Safe Your physical and emotional safety is our highest priority. Our 24/7 duty system operated by Assistant Directors, Resident Directors, and Resident Assistants ensures that our dedicated team of live-on staff and student leaders can always respond to your needs at a moment’s notice, whether you live within on- or off-campus University Housing. As members of the Bruin community, each of us commit ourselves to the True Bruin Values: Respect, Accountability, Integrity, Service, and Excellence. Rules for Residents We Support Academic Success As a member of the UCLA residential community, you have access to a wide range of resources designed to ensure your academic success. This includes a team of world-class Faculty in Residence, mentoring and advising services, and generously appointed study spaces and Learning Centers. If you’re looking to immerse yourself within a community of like-minded scholars, we offer eleven Living Learning Communities for you to explore shared interests and identities. Academic Resources We Create a Sense of Belonging For more than a century, a diverse collection of change-makers from all walks of life have made groundbreaking discoveries and positive social impact. Our residential communities are inclusive and welcoming places that you’ll proudly call home. Whether you’re joining in some of our community programs, catching up with friends in a dining hall, or just hanging out with your roommates, we hope you’ll always feel like part of the Bruin family. Communities We Help Students Develop Intercultural Competence & Leadership Skills Bruins are passionate, active, and involved leaders. UCLA Residential Life offers many programs and opportunities for you to follow your dreams, build your skills, and develop your full leadership potential. Beyond merely preparing you to build a successful career, we work to help each student become an engaged and socially responsible citizen. Get Involved UCLA Residential Life 205 Bradley Hall 417 Charles E Young Dr W Los Angeles, CA 90095 (310) 825-3401 Room Reservations Places to Study Media Requests Event Proposals Publicity Requests About Residential Life Student Affairs Housing First Year Experience Employment Contact UCLA Terms of Use Accessibility myResLife