Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Mail & Shippingkara_humphreys2022-03-29T14:37:39-05:00 MAIL, SHIPPING, & PACKAGE DELIVERY SERVICES All Carriers (USPS/UPS/Fedex/Amazon) FedEx & UPS Package Only All Carriers (USPS/UPS/Fedex/Amazon) Texas A&M University students living on campus can receive mail via their University Apartments provided mailbox or rent a Post Office Box. Mail is not delivered to individual on-campus residents rooms or apartments. Residence hall and Corps residents may rent mailboxes from Student Mail Services or the U.S. Post Office. Apartment’s residents have centralized mailboxes available at no additional cost. Check the Corps of Cadets and Residence Halls below for more specific information. Apartments Mailboxes are provided at the University Apartments as part of your housing charges. Each apartment is assigned one mailbox for the residents to share and each student resident is issued a mailbox combination upon moving into an apartment. The apartment community also has several package mailboxes. If you receive a key in your mailbox, this indicates you have received a large package and must pick it up in the large mailboxes. Mail delivery is handled by the U.S. Post Office for Gardens Apartments and by Texas A&M University Mail Services for White Creek Apartments. Gardens Apartments Mailboxes for the Gardens Apartments Building F thru L are located on the outside of the laundry building. Mailboxes for Gardens Apartments M thru Q are located on the outside of the activity building. The pick-up location for Gardens residents for signature required mail and all USPS packages that do not fit in the parcel boxes is the College Station U.S. Post Office located at 2130 Harvey Mitchell Pkwy South. Pick-up hours at this location are from 9:00am – 5:00pm, Monday – Friday and 9:00am – 12:00pm, Saturday. Any parcels that are not delivered due to size and/or require a signature must be picked up at the College Station Post Office. Any undeliverable mail (i.e., no building #, no suite #, no resident listing) will either be immediately returned to sender or will be recycled in the case of junk mail. Any mail that is delivered to your box but is not your mail can be brought to the Gardens Apartments Office for redirection or be placed in the outgoing mail slot for USPS to re-deliver or return. White Creek Apartments Mailboxes for White Creek Apartments are located on the outside of Building A. The pick-up location for White Creek residents for signature required mail and all USPS packages that do not fit in the 36 parcel boxes is the Mail Services building located at 330 Agronomy Road. This pick-up location is open to students from 8:30am to 12:00pm and 1:00 pm – 4:30pm, Monday – Friday. Any parcels that are not delivered due to size and/or require a signature will be held for a period of 7 days beginning with date listed on the delivery notice and will be returned to sender at the end of that 7 day period if not claimed. Any undeliverable mail (i.e., no building #, no suite #, no resident listing) once Mail Services exhausts their lookup resources will either be immediately returned to sender or will be recycled in the case of junk mail. Any mail that is delivered to your box but is not your mail should be placed in outgoing mail slot and Mail Services will redeliver or forward/return through USPS. Addressing Requirements U.S. Postal mail/packages should be addressed as follows: Gardens Apts Buildings F-L Gardens Apts Buildings M-Q White Creek Apartments Student’s First and Last Name 302 Ball St Building Letter and Apt Number College Station, TX 77840 Student’s First and Last Name 1100 Hensel Drive Building Letter and Apt Number College Station, TX 77840 Student’s First and Last Name 225 Discovery Drive Building Letter and Apt Number College Station, TX 77845 Corps of Cadets & Residence Halls Mailboxes are not provided for residence hall or Corps of Cadet residents, however students may rent mailboxes, buy postage, ship packages, and more on campus at the Northgate U.S. Post Office located at the corner of University Drive and Houston Street or through Student Mail Services facilities located on northside in Hullabaloo Hall, Room 136 and in the Southside Commons, Room 126. Box sizes, rental rates, services, and hours of operation vary. Contact the Post Office or Student Mail Services via the contact information below. Addressing Requirements Upon renting your mailbox from Northgate U.S. Post Office or Student Mail Services, you will be provided with a mailing address. Change of Address All residents need to be sure to file a change of address or forwarding address form with the U.S. Post Office. This can be done at any U.S. Post Office or online at USPS.com. Residents are also encouraged to update their address on their Texas A&M University student record before they move or change residences so mail delivery will not be interrupted. Contact Information If you have questions or issues concerning your mail delivery you will need to contact: Corps & Residence Halls Student Mail Services 979.458.2692 (Commons) 979.458.9758 (Hullabaloo) studentmailservice@gmail.com studentmailservice.com Northgate U.S. Post Office 979.846.5716 Gardens Apartments White Creek Apartments Northgate U.S. Post Office 979.846.5716 Texas A&M University Mail Services 979.845.4624 mail@tamu.edu FedEx & UPS Package Only FedEx and UPS are allowed to make deliveries to student rooms and apartments. We suggest that residents are in their room or apartment at the time of delivery. FedEx and UPS are not allowed to leave packages for residents at the residence hall or apartment office or the area offices. Area offices will not accept packages for residents. Addressing Requirements FedEx & UPS packages should be addressed as follows: Corps & Residence Halls Gardens Apartments White Creek Apartments Student's First and Last Name Hall Name and Room Number Texas A&M University College Station, TX 77840 Student's First and Last Name Gardens Apartments Building Letter and Apt Number Texas A&M University College Station, TX 77840 Student's First and Last Name White Creek Apartments Building Letter and Apt Number Texas A&M University College Station, TX 77840 Contact Information If you have questions or issues concerning your FedEx or UPS delivery you will need to contact: FedEx Contact UPS Contact FedEx 800.GoFedEx (800.463.3339) Email FedEx UPS 800.PICK.UPS (800.742.5877) Email UPS Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Honoring Excellence Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Start Collaborating Type of Living Learning Communities (Text Version) Amenities Add-Ons Landline Telephone Service Action Form Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Accommodations/Accessibility Options Laundry Facilities Recreation & Game Rooms Television Service Get Involved Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs AALANA (African American, Latinx American, Native/Islander Pacific American) Aggie ACHIEVE Engineering Village @ The Commons FACTION ( Freshmen in ACTION) Geosciences Honors (University Honors Program) IDEAS (Information Investigation) Leadership (L3C) Spectrum (Neuro Diversity) Startup (Entrepreneurship) Sustainability THRIVE: Wellness Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Custodial & Maintenance Services Evaluation Structural Pest Control Customer Evaluation Health, Safety, & Security Community-Oriented Police Services (C.O.P.S.) Sustainability E-Waste Bins Green Dorm Certification Sustainability Awards Trex Plastics Challenge U-Challenge U-Challenge Application PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top