Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Serviceskara_humphreys2020-06-04T15:04:23-05:00 SERVICES Community amenities and services that enhance your experience on-campus, help you be successful, and provide space to study and socialize. Explore the services available to on-campus residents below. Accommodations/Accessibility Options We offer services to work to accommodate Aggies with disabilities. For a list of housing accommodations requests that can be made, please visit our Accommodations/Accessibility Options page. Convenience Phones A convenience phone is located near at least one entrance of each residence hall or apartment office. These phones are provided for guests to contact residents, who can then open exterior doors and properly escort the guest to their room. These phones have a red emergency button, which, when pressed, places the caller in immediate contact with the University Police Department. Internet – WiFi and Ethernet ResNet (Residential Network) allows connection to the internet as well as other campus resources. Each residence hall or apartment room has two high-speed network connections to ResNet. In addition to the wired connections in each room, wireless connectivity to ResNet is available in all of the residential facilities and in outdoor locations directly adjacent to some of the halls. Connecting to ResNet requires a network cable to connect the computer to the room’s network connection or a computer that supports wireless access. You may have a personal router as long as the wireless feature is turned off. | More info Laundry Facilities All on-campus residents have access to high efficiency front-loading washers and dryers. Residents of the residence halls and Corps halls have washers and dryers in their hall. Residents in White Creek Apartments have a washer and dryer in their apartment. Residents in the Gardens Apartments have either a washer and dryer in their apartment or access to an on-site credit or debit card-swipe operated laundry facility. | More info Laundry & Dry Cleaning Service We are proud to provide the laundry services of Tide Cleaners. Tide Cleaners is designed to give you more time to do valuable things while in college. College can be stressful and Tide Cleaners takes the chore of laundry off your plate. Drop dirty clothes off at one of the trucks or lockers located on campus, they’ll clean it with Tide and fold your clothes like a gift. You save 80 hours a year to put toward more important things. Tide Cleaners is a true laundry specialist. In light of COVID-19, Tide is committed to a completely contactless laundry experience. Nothing is more important than ensuring your safety. If you have questions please contact their Guest Care Team at 888-590-9274. | More info Public Hallway Phones Students will have access to at least one “public hallway phone” on every residential floor of every building, with the exception of Hart and Walton halls, where the phones are located only on the first floor of each ramp. These phones are available for local calls and can be used for personal or emergency use. Recreation & Game Rooms The campus has a beautiful Student Recreation Center which all Aggies are encouraged to take advantage of. In addition to the Student Rec Center, there are several recreation and game rooms in each of our on-campus living areas. | More info Television Service Texas A&M Information Technology Telecommunications recently transitioned the campus cable television service from an analog AND digital lineup to an ALL digital service. Please check to make sure the television you will be bringing to campus is capable of tuning digital channels. If you have a newer TV, your TV should work. Many TV’s purchased since 2004 have digital converters built-in. All TV’s manufactured after 2007 are required by law to have digital signal receivers. | More info Tutoring The Department of Residence Life, in collaboration with Peer Academic Services, offers tutoring in various academic subjects. | More info Vending Machines Vending machines dispensing drinks and snacks are located throughout the residence hall areas. Consult your hall staff for the location of the nearest vending machine. For drink and snack machine refunds, residents may receive refunds from the North Area Office (Hullabaloo 101). To report repair needs for the drink machines, call 1.800.888.3508. Call 979.778.9500 to report needed snack machine repairs. Work Orders Work order requests for residence hall or apartment repairs can be submitted via the online work order system at aggieworks.tamu.edu. | More info If you do not have access to a computer or the online work order system is not operational, contact hall staff to submit a work order. × ResNet Outdoor WiFi Locations Residence Hall Locations Between Clements and Fowler In FHK courtyard Between Keathley and Moses North side of Walton North patio of the Commons building South patio of the Commons building Outside the Gardens Activity Center Gardens Apartments Locations Between Buildings M, N, & P East of Building P Outside the Gardens Activity Center, including Lamiya Zahin Memorial Park and Playground Ron Sasse Pavilion and Courtyard Volleyball/basketball court area White Creek Apartments Locations Outside the White Creek Community Center Close Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Honoring Excellence Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Start Collaborating Type of Living Learning Communities (Text Version) Amenities Add-Ons Landline Telephone Service Action Form Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Accommodations/Accessibility Options Laundry Facilities Recreation & Game Rooms Television Service Get Involved Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs AALANA (African American, Latinx American, Native/Islander Pacific American) Aggie ACHIEVE Engineering Village @ The Commons FACTION ( Freshmen in ACTION) Geosciences Honors (University Honors Program) IDEAS (Information Investigation) Leadership (L3C) Spectrum (Neuro Diversity) Startup (Entrepreneurship) Sustainability THRIVE: Wellness Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Custodial & Maintenance Services Evaluation Structural Pest Control Customer Evaluation Health, Safety, & Security Community-Oriented Police Services (C.O.P.S.) Sustainability E-Waste Bins Green Dorm Certification Sustainability Awards Trex Plastics Challenge U-Challenge U-Challenge Application PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top