Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Greek Houses Greek Organizations have been a part of Brown's campus life for 175 years. With both local and national organization affiliations, the current organizations include sororities, fraternities, and gender inclusive organizations. Below is a list of the currently recognized organizations. Scroll down further for organization descriptions. Recognized Greek Houses The vibrant, friendly, and diverse Greek community at Brown includes fourteen officially recognized Greek organizations, each with their own unique traditions and culture. These groups range from around five to one hundred and sixty members. Each organization maintains its own mission and identity, and yet they all come together to make Wriston Quad one of the most active and engaging parts of campus. Groups (gender inclusive) Alpha Delta Phi Society The Alpha Delta Phi Society is a diverse, gender-inclusive community of friends that encourage each other's passions and have lots of fun along the way. Whether you find us hanging out in the Lounge, staying up in the Pine Room, playing video games in the TV Room, or baking in the kitchen, you can expect excellent company, meaningful conversations, and boundless shenanigans. We celebrate our society's rich history and traditions, but most importantly, we develop lifelong friendships. If the Alpha Delta Phi Society sounds like a place you'd live to call home, stop by anytime - we'd love to meet you. Zeta Delta Xi Zeta Delta Xi is a co-ed fraternity that brings together many different individuals from disparate backgrounds. We are thinkers, doers, models, engineers, artists, scientists, linguists, musicians, and most of all really fun people to be around. Some of us are guilty of watching way too much television (whether it be Game of Thrones or Keeping Up With The Kardashians) in our one-of-a-kind stadium seating TV room, others admit to staying up at ridiculous hours to play games of fooz or pool, others still can be found dancing on tables (or resting under them) in the bar while Beyoncé plays at full blast. Whether studying in the lounge, cooking dinner in our fully stocked kitchen, our brothers take pride in the rewarding experiences that Zete has to offer. In breaking away from our all-male national 20 years ago, we made sure that this amazing community could be experienced by people regardless of gender, and we have evolved into a fraternity of friendship, community, and good dance moves. Not to mention, in the spirit of having a good time ALL the time, our parties are epic and even debaucherous at times. You’re all invited! Come, stop by Zete, and experience the family that we share and the world in which we live. We’re the fraternity on the corner of Patriot’s Court, next to the Ratty with the big, blue swings. Sororities (female-identified) Alpha Chi Omega Alpha Chi Omega was the first sorority on campus in 1979. Since then the sisters of the Zeta Theta chapter of Alpha Chi Omega have dedicated themselves to philanthropy, academics, and most of all, sisterhood. We are a dedicated and diverse group of girls whose interests range from child psychology to biomedical engineering, classics, to East Asian studies. At the end of the day we are all unique Brown Students who have been fortunate enough to find sisterhood. We look forward to meeting new people interested in the sorority. Feel free to stop by the house at any time! We are located in Sears building on Wriston Quad. Delta Gamma In Spring of 2018, Delta Gamma officially dropped anchor in Providence, Rhode Island. After a three-month installation process, Theta Delta was chartered and welcomed 55 new women into Delta Gamma's Sisterhood. Delta Gamma was founded in 1873 by three women who shared the values of friendship, education, social responsibility and character. With the motto "Do Good", Delta Gammas strive to make a difference through awareness, service and fundraising. DG has its own philanthropy, Service For Sight, dedicated to assisting the visually-impaired. We are excited about increasing our presence on campus through service events, sisterhood events, and socials. Theta Delta is thrilled about the opportunity to make a positive impact on the Brown University Campus in the years to come! Kappa Delta Kappa Delta was officially installed here at Brown in spring of 2013 and was the first KD chapter in Rhode Island! We take pride in having a community of diverse and accomplished women. We have sisters in prestigious programs such as the Program for Liberal Medical Education (PLME) and a variety of rigorous academic tracks, from Classics to Engineering. The women in our chapter have accomplished so much throughout their time in Kappa Delta: some women in our chapter have raised thousands of dollars with their own philanthropic causes like Make a Wish Foundation, others have started their own businesses, one became an internet sensation with her successful twitter account “Feminist Taylor Swift," two of our sisters have won Miss Teen America titles in their home states, and we’re also proud to have a sister who is competing for the Summer Olympics. Our various interests and accomplishments make each woman different, but we are also diverse in that our girls come from different parts of America---and of the world! There are women who hail from England, Ghana, China, Germany, South Korea and Hong Kong. In the spirit of Kappa Delta’s philanthropic attitude, we raise money for Prevent Child Abuse America by throwing “Dunk and Dodge” (a fun dodgeball tournament and paint party mash-up) and look forward to continuing this tradition every spring. We also do activities with our local Girl Scouts troop to help instill confidence in young girls. To tighten our sisterhood bond, our women get together for activities such as movie night, pumpkin picking, and group yoga. We also host an International Women’s Friendship Month event every year to celebrate our friendships within our chapter and with other sororities on campus. For our social and fun-loving side, Kappa Deltas love attending our formals and mixers with fellow fraternities. Kappa Alpha Theta The first Greek letter fraternity for women, Kappa Alpha Theta was founded initially in 1870 at DePauw University and at Brown University in 1897 as the Alpha Epsilon Chapter. Our four founders, Bettie Locke Hamilton, Alice Allen Brant, Bettie Tipton Lindsey, and Hannah Fitch Shaw, were quite the forward-thinking women when creating the first all-women fraternity. On Brown’s campus, members of our chapter model the same spirit of leading women as our founders: we are members of the prestigious PLME program, President of Dance Marathon at Brown, TEDx speaker, President of Brown Entrepreneurship Program, President of Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere at Brown, Director of Ivy Film Festival, Directors of Fashion@Brown, varsity athletes, researchers, EMS volunteers, and Meiklejohns. Our sisters have gone on to work and attend programs at Teach for America, Google, Harvard Law School, Brown Alpert Warren Medical School, Goldman Sachs, and many other incredible opportunities. In choosing Theta, you are joining a close-knit sisterhood that values intellectual curiosity, leadership potential, commitment to service, and personal excellence. We bond through study sessions at the SciLi, big-little family dinners, supporting each other at athletic competitions, doing community service together, watching Queer Eye with Queer Thetas—a program started by our queer sisters to educate other members about biases and inclusivity within the community—and going to spin classes together. To raise money for our philanthropy, we host two events every year to benefit CASA (Court Appointed Special Advocate). Our chapter has been recognized nationally as a “Bronze Kite” for our achievements and at Brown for Diversity and Inclusion Initiative of the Year in 2019. Fraternities (male-identified) Beta Omega Chi Beta Omega Chi dedicates itself to service in ways that are not customary for any fraternity on any campus. Service is one of two general focal points of the mission of the fraternity (the other being the establishment of an undying brotherhood) and our commitment to it has been, is, and will continue to be at the heart of our agenda. This is not to say that other fraternities are not committed to service but our consistent service to the Brown community and the greater community thus far, without any money or any support from the University, should convey our willingness to go above and beyond. Delta Tau DTau’s membership reflects the diverse backgrounds from which we hail. We pride ourselves on our laid-back attitudes and our laissez-faire self-governance and the equality with which we treat one another stands testament to our ability to overstep the traditional social boundaries of fraternities. To those of you who have attended our parties and events, we hope that you enjoyed yourselves. To those of you who haven’t graced us with your presence, you should. Delta Phi Delta Phi at Brown has a great tradition to uphold that stretches back nearly 200 years. We believe firmly that the college fraternity is an intimate, personal experience best shared amongst the closest of friends. DPhi also has a deserved reputation for being an extremely close-knit, socially-oriented house, whose diversity is reflected in the collection of successful athletes, scholars, and leaders in the Brown community that are our members. Not only are our parties among the best on campus, but we also are active in a variety of community service pursuits, most recently including a mentoring program at a Providence inner city high school. But the most important thing Delta Phi offers are friendships that will last a lifetime. We hope you will stop by at one of our parties or open houses to meet the brothers who define what Delta Phi is today. Semper Ubique! Theta Alpha The brothers of Theta Alpha share one common bond: we all like to have a good time. From the west coast to the east coast, the brothers add diverse backgrounds to the already established melting pot community of Brown. While many brothers currently study economics or the business tract of COE, we have brothers concentrating in the History of Art and Architecture, History, English, Engineering, and Neuroscience. Some Thetians are involved in Brown athletics, and others enjoy the numerous intramurals that are offered. The doors in Theta Alpha are always open if you have any questions for a brother during recruitment regarding the process or just a question about the benefits of being a Thetian. We all encourage you to attend some of our events to meet and experience the closeness and unity of the brothers of Theta Alpha. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Greek Houses Open details for Greek Houses Bookmark this Page