Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Employmentkara_humphreys2022-05-24T15:48:03-05:00 EMPLOYMENT The Department of Residence Life is committed to hiring a diverse student and professional staff that are dedicated to student success. We offer a fun, academic-centered environment where each staff member has the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of students. For more information in joining our team, search the links below. Professional Opportunities Residence Life is always looking for experienced, enthusiastic professionals to fill roles in various offices on our team. Current positions are posted with Human Resources. To review our current list of postings, please filter your search on the TAMU Workday website by searching “Residence Life and Housing” in the search bar. Creative Manager: We are seeking to hire a Creative Manager to provide cohesive, creative, visual direction for all our deliverables. We foresee this person will work with all the units across the Department of Residence Life to develop, manage, and reinforce the University’s brand and visual standards on printed materials, digital, social media, and multimedia platforms. We are looking for someone who has project management skills, and working knowledge of print processing equipment and software, and design. Proficiency or mastery of related applications, including Adobe CreativeSuite (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign) and Microsoft Office is a plus to serve in this position. The selected candidate will subscribe to and support our commitment to Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accountability (IDEA) as stated above. Our successful hire will bring an expert level of experience to the position and enthusiasm to introduce cutting edge ideas and skills that can help us elevate our performance. Are you our Creative Manager? For more information and to apply, visit jobs.tamu.edu and search for job position number R-047939. Community Director: We are looking for a Student Development Specialist II to provide administrative, supervisory, student programming, student support, and conflict resolution skills in a residence hall setting and multiple communities. This role requires one to become a live-in member of the residence hall staff and provide on-duty coverage to an on-campus population of over 7, 000 students. The ideal candidate will have preferred experience in mediation and conflict resolution and demonstrated professional leadership and decision-making abilities. Understanding how to apply student development theory in a residence hall setting, as well as knowledge of key and occupancy management, will be a plus to serve in this position. The selected candidate will subscribe to and support our commitment to Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accountability (IDEA) as stated above. If this description appeals to you then apply for this great opportunity! For more information and to apply, visit jobs.tamu.edu and search for job position number R-048789. Project Specialist III: The Department of Residence Life provides on-campus housing for approximately 12,000 Texas A&M University students in traditional residence halls, apartments, and Corps of Cadets halls. The Project Specialist III, for Residence Life Housing Systems, reports to the Associate Director of Residence Life and shares responsibility for the overall management of multiple enterprise-level software solutions. The Project Specialist III is responsible for working with department leadership to analyze and document the business and operational needs of the department, review potential IT solutions, then plan, develop and implement projects to meet the identified needs. The selected candidate will subscribe to and support our commitment to Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accountability (IDEA) as stated above. If this job description sounds interesting to you, we invite you to apply to be considered for this opportunity. For more information and to apply, visit jobs.tamu.edu and search for job position number R-049837. Tour Program Coordinator: The Department of Residence Life is looking to hire a NEW full-time Tour Coordinator to highlight and showcase in the importance of living on-campus to the approximately 17,000 visitors a year for the 6 distinct price points, 50 buildings, and 4 sides of campus we have in our on-campus housing operations. This position will act as the department lead for all Aggieland Saturday (AgSat) activities, Aggieland Info Day, and other Admissions-sponsored large campus-wide recruiting events. The Tour Coordinator will oversee the hiring and training of one Graduate Tour Coordinator and approximately 20-25 highly qualified/high performing students each year from all academic majors and socioeconomic backgrounds to be tour guides. The selected candidate will subscribe to and support our commitment to Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Accountability as stated above. This candidate will also be expected to participate in departmental, divisional, and university DEIA initiatives. If you have a track record of successful leadership in the areas of project/program administration, we want you for this role. Consider applying for this rewarding opportunity to demonstrate your passion and to utilize your expertise and service to make a meaningful impact. For more information and to apply, visit jobs.tamu.edu and search for job position number R-050049. Student Staff Opportunities Student Employment Positions Thank you for your interest in a student employment position within the Department of Residence Life at Texas A&M University! Residence Life offers many different types of positions with a wide variety of work hours to accommodate student schedules. Student employees can work up to 28 hours each week; 20 hours for international students. The student employment application is open year round. Hiring Supervisors will contact candidates as there is vacancy to be filled. Student employee positions can be for the academic year, year round, or summer only based on the needs of the hiring office. The Department of Residence Life employs student employees year round, including times when classes are not in session and when the University is closed. It is important to know that when applying for student worker positions in the Department of Residence Life, there will be hours that will need to be covered during spring break, semester/winter break, at the end of the semester in May, and before classes begin in August. Some jobs require students to work over the summer. General work times are outlined in each student worker position description. Continued employment is not guaranteed if student is unable to work over summer. Pay rates vary by position. Click the Student Employment Application button below to apply for student employment positions in the Department of Residence Life. Student Employment Info & Application Some of our student staff positions have websites they update during their recruitment periods. Please visit their page for more information: Academic Peer Mentors Academic Support Initiatives Student Assistant Assistant Tour Coordinator Business Office Student Assistant Central Administrative Office Student Assistant Community Learning Center Office Student Assistant Conference & Guest Services Student Coordinator Conference Residential Services Assistant Conference Summer Support Coordinator Corps Housing Office Student Assistant Corps Housing Officer Facilities and Operations Student Facilities Coordinator Facilities and Operations Student Office Assistant Gardens Apartments Student Coordinator Housing Assignments Office Student Assistant Marketing Digital Media Student Coordinator Marketing Print & Procurement Student Coordinator North Area Office Student Assistant Northside 24-Hour Service Desk Assistant Northside Game Room Desk Assistant South Area Office Student Assistant Southside 24-Hour Service Desk Assistant Southside Game Room Desk Assistant Summer Resident Advisor Summer Tour Guide White Creek Apartments Student Assistant White Creek Community Center Student Assistant Resident Advisor Positions Resident Advisor positions for the Residence Halls and the White Creek Apartments by clicking on the button below. The Resident Advisor Application is active and available only during specific times of the year. Resident Advisor Info & Application Additional Employment Resources Residence Life Student Position Descriptions Prospective Employee Resources Diversity Resources Veteran’s Employment Liaison and Preference Nondiscrimination Notice Benefits Retirement Programs Employee Discount Program University Holidays Graduate Student Employee Benefits PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top