Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartmentskara_humphreys2021-09-27T15:07:17-05:00 FACULTY / STAFF / POST DOC APARTMENTS All faculty staff apartments are full through December. Texas A&M Faculty, Staff Members, and Post Docs are welcome to apply to live at the Gardens Apartments on monthly or 12-month contracts at local market rate prices. No security deposit or background checks. Eligibility Only Texas A&M University employees or Texas A&M University employees and their approved cohabiters may reside in University Apartments. The faculty or staff member’s name and UIN must appear in Workday to prove they are employed by Texas A&M University-College Station. To be approved to rent an apartment, employee residents must hold a full-time (not student worker) staff, faculty, or Post-Doctorate position at Texas A&M University as defined by Texas A&M University Human Resources. In addition, the employee resident must be an adult (18 years of age or older), and be able to provide written verification of employment prior to occupancy. Approved employee residents are allowed to have cohabiters live with them as outlined in this contract. Availability The University Apartments offers a limited number of two bedroom, one bathroom staff/faculty apartments on a first-come, first-served basis. Employee residents will be allowed to stay for up to 24 months. Amenities Gardens Apartments Community Center with Open Access computer lab, wireless access, lounges, kitchen, meeting rooms, work room, and more. Short walk or bike ride to classes and labs Parking in front of your apartment (parking permits available at an additional charge from Transportation Services) Campus bus stops throughout the complex Lamiya Zahin Memorial Park and Playground located adjacent to the Gardens Apartments Community Center (open daily from sunrise to sunset) Rates There are two bedroom/one bath furnished apartments available for staff and faculty members. Each apartment has a stove and refrigerator; living room, kitchen, and bedroom furniture. Rent includes all utilities (electricity, hot and cold water, garbage, sewer, basic cable and Ethernet-wireless & wired) and access to the amenities listed above. Faculty and staff members may split the rent with one other staff or faculty member who meets the eligibility requirements. Facility Monthly Rate * 12-Month Rate Per Month * Gardens 2 bedroom/1 bath Premium $1,639 $1,512 * Rates valid thru July 31, 2022 Reservation Request Process The staff or faculty member completes and submits the Faculty/Staff/Post Doc University Apartments Request. The Gardens Apartment staff will review the application and verify the eligibility of the staff or faculty member and confirm apartment vacancy. When apartments are available, the Gardens Apartments Staff will electronically send a rental agreement packet to the next verified staff or faculty member on the waitlist. The staff or faculty member must return the signed contract within three (3) business days. This rental agreement is legally binding when signed and returned to the Gardens Apartments staff member by the deadline. The faculty/staff member must submit a letter from their supervisor with start date and person’s job title. First month’s rent is due at time of move-in. Payment Information The staff or faculty member or Post Doc is required to pay the rent upon arrival and between the first and seventh of each subsequent month of residency. The staff or faculty member is responsible for paying the rent, s/he will need to pay with a cashier’s check, or money order, in the exact amount, made out to TAMU Fiscal Department. The staff or faculty member will need to bring the payment to the Gardens Apartments Office during regular business hours. Reservation Request Once you have read all of the information above and you are ready to make a request, please click on the Continue to Request Form button below. Continue to Request Form Contact Us Gardens Apartments Office Location: Gardens Apartments Community Center Hours of Operation: 8:00am – 5:00pm, M – F Phone: 979.845.2261 Email: Gardens-Apartments@reslife.tamu.edu Housing Options Apartments The Gardens Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartment Reservation Request Guest Apartments Guest Apartment Accommodations Request Annual Housing Orientation White Creek Corps Housing Spence Hall (Dorm 1) Kiest Hall (Dorm 2) Briggs Hall (Dorm 3) Fountain Hall (Dorm 4) Gainer Hall (Dorm 5) Lacy Hall (Dorm 6) Leonard Hall (Dorm 7) Harrell Hall (Dorm 8) Whiteley Hall (Dorm 9) White Hall (Dorm 10) Harrington Hall (Dorm 11) Utay Hall (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top