Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Academic Events & Programskara_humphreys2022-03-09T10:40:10-06:00 ACADEMIC EVENTS & PROGRAMS Many of the things you learn and the people you meet in Aggieland involve activities in your residential community. Here are some of the academic initiative events and programs that occur regularly in our on-campus residences. Academic Peer Mentors Academic Peer Mentors (APMs) help other students succeed academically. Certified by the College Reading & Learning Association, the Academic Peer Mentor program extensively trains its student mentors and offers a variety of academic programs and events: Academic Check-Ups – Academic Check-Ups are regular meetings where a student receives personalized, one-on-one academic coaching from an APM. Meeting with an APM helps you stay on track, transition successfully, and meet your goals over the course of the semester. Register today! Office Hours – The APM Offices are located in Hullabaloo 125 and Commons 102. Students can visit the offices to discuss general academic issues with APMs or to learn more information about the program. No appointment or scheduling necessary. Questions? Call the Hullaballoo office at 979.458.5466. or our Commons office at 979.458.5068. Spring 2022 Office Hours Sunday- Wednesday: 12 p.m. – 8 p.m. Thursday: 12 p.m.- 6 p.m. Friday: 12 p.m. – 5 p.m. REVTalk – REVTalks are events where students can learn about academic topics from a panel of upperclassmen and/or faculty and staff. Past panels have focused on studying abroad, test preparation, overcoming academic probation, research and more. Follow @tamu_apm for RevTalk updates, locations, and times. Request a Collaborative Program – The APMs are available to co-program with RAs to offer a program in their curriculum and teach residents about different topics of academics. Click HERE (hyper link: https://tamu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1zcECGlY80sl1MV) to request a Collaborative Program. Dinner with a Prof Dinner with a Prof is a monthly event in which on-campus residents have the opportunity to engage in dialogue with faculty, outside of the classroom. Set in front of the fireplace in Hullabaloo Hall on the first Tuesday of the month during the academic year, faculty are invited to share their field of study, their personal journey, or life advice through engaging conversation with students. Students who attend enjoy a delicious meal, meet other students, and learn that faculty members are real people, too, who can and want to be approached! Watch your TAMU email for monthly invitations, or visit our Event Registration System to see the upcoming month’s event. Honoring Excellence Awards Ceremony Honoring Excellence is a formal ceremony in which Texas A&M University students are given the opportunity to nominate faculty and staff members for awards and recognizes on-campus students who have demonstrated academic and leadership excellence, including those who achieve Distinguished Student status (Student Rule 11). Visit the award ceremony’s page for more details. Living Learning Communities (LLCs) Texas A&M University provides residential experiences commonly referred to as Living Learning Communities (LLCs). These communities consist of Living Learning Communities, Residential Colleges, and Themed or Interest Group Communities. Review the various Living Learning Communities available in Aggieland. Student Employment Opportunities Employment opportunities for students are plentiful in the Department of Residence Life. In addition to offering numerous full-time and professional positions, the department is one of the largest employers of students. On-campus employment offers the convenience of working for employers who are flexible with students’ class schedules, walking between work and class, and, (in many areas) the same vacations as the University (winter break, spring break, summer, etc.). Study Spectacular Study Spectacular occurs at the end of each semester from 8am on Reading Day through 5:00pm on the last day of finals. Large meeting rooms are open 24/7 during this time frame in order to provide our on-campus residents with a quiet environment that is conducive to their studying. Some rooms that are opened include the Multipurpose Rooms in Hullabaloo Hall, the Commons, the White Creek Activity Center, and the White Creek Community Center, as well as the Gardens CLC (Community Learning Center). Free coffee and snacks are provided throughout the event to keep you fueled for finals. Students from Engineering Honors will be available in some locations to provide moral support, assistance, and upperclass guidance! Residential Tutors will be available in Hullabaloo 105 on the evening of Reading Day. Please refer to our Calendar for specific dates. Locations: Hullabaloo Hall Hullabaloo Multipurpose Room (Room 117) Hullabaloo 105 The Commons Commons Multipurpose Room (Room 109) White Creek Apartments White Creek Apartments Activity Center Multipurpose Room White Creek Community Center Multipurpose Room (Room 116) Gardens Apartments Gardens CLC Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Honoring Excellence Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Start Collaborating Type of Living Learning Communities (Text Version) Amenities Add-Ons Landline Telephone Service Action Form Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Accommodations/Accessibility Options Laundry Facilities Recreation & Game Rooms Television Service Get Involved Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs AALANA (African American, Latinx American, Native/Islander Pacific American) Aggie ACHIEVE Engineering Village @ The Commons FACTION ( Freshmen in ACTION) Geosciences Honors (University Honors Program) IDEAS (Information Investigation) Leadership (L3C) Spectrum (Neuro Diversity) Startup (Entrepreneurship) Sustainability THRIVE: Wellness Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Custodial & Maintenance Services Evaluation Structural Pest Control Customer Evaluation Health, Safety, & Security Community-Oriented Police Services (C.O.P.S.) Sustainability E-Waste Bins Green Dorm Certification Sustainability Awards Trex Plastics Challenge U-Challenge U-Challenge Application PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top