Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Our Staff Learn about our leadership, operations staff and Area Coordinators. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Our Staff Learn about our leadership, operations staff and Area Coordinators. Leadership Leadership Brenda Ice Senior Associate Dean & Senior Director of Residential Life brenda_ice@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns She/her/hers Brenda Ice joined the Brown community in September 2021 as the inaugural Senior Associate Dean/Senior Director of Residential Life. She will lead Residential Life at a pivotal moment for Brown as we reimagine the undergraduate residential experience. With the implementation of an expanded and redesigned professional staff organization, Brenda will lead the development of a shared, coordinated set of structures, practices, and outcomes to support undergraduate students’ experience of inclusive communities that promote wellness, growth, development with a greater connection to the curricular and co-curricular experience. Brenda comes with an impressive and extensive track record, having served in a variety of leadership roles in higher education for over 25 years. Her focus at all times is on advancing students’ belonging and learning as members of the university community. Prior to Brown, Brenda served as the Assistant Dean/Director of Campus Life at Scripps College (CA) and Assistant Dean of Students at the University of California – Riverside. She has also worked at Colgate University (NY) Towson University (MD), Wilkes University (PA) and Salisbury University (MD). She also has a background in Information Technology, having served as Director of Telecommunications at Salisbury University for 8 years before pursuing her career in student affairs. Brenda earned her Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from Washington College (MD) and her Master of Education in Post-Secondary Education from Salisbury University. She is currently pursuing her Doctorate of Education in Student Affairs Administration & Leadership from the University of Wisconsin – LaCrosse. Terrance Sanders Director of Program and Theme Houses terrance_sanders@brown.edu Pronouns he/him/his Terrance joins residential life as the Director of Theme and Program Houses. As the Director, Terrance is responsible for the development of the living-learning experience for returning students bringing a relational, strategic, and coordinated approach to a residential area of 1700 students. Terrance is from Rochester, NY but working in Student Affairs, Terrance has had the ability work across the United States as well as the Abu Dhabi, UAE. Terrance received his Bachelors of Business Administration from Plattsburgh State University in 2011 and went on to receive his Masters in Business Administration with a concentration in Human Resource Management from Walden University. Prior to transitioning to Brown University, Terrance worked at Santa Fe University of Art & Design, New York University Abu and the University of Vermont. In which all roles have focused on the enhancement of residential operations, residential student experience and department vision. Outside of work, Terrance enjoys spending time with his family, friends and traveling. Sean Thompson Director of First Year Experience and Houses sean_thompson1@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns he/him/his Sean joined the Office of Residential Education in May 2021 as the Director of First Year Experience & Houses. As the Director, Sean is responsible for the development of the living-learning experience for first-year students bringing a relational, strategic, and coordinated approach to a residential area of 1700 students. Sean earned his Bachelor of Arts in Economics in 2008 from the University of Hartford and his Master of Science in Counseling with a specialization in Higher Education & Student Development in 2011 from Central Connecticut State University. "I am very proud of the impact that I’ve had on campus ecosystems. I am a fierce supporter for building communities through grassroots efforts with a focus on social justice, empathy, advocacy, and mentorship. I am also very proud to use my own cultural background to inform my work and inspire the campus communities I've had the honor of being a part of." Residential Operations The Housing Operations team (Ops team) are staff who support the residential experience by making housing assignments, organizing housing processes, and controlling secure access to residential facilities. Ops team members oversee the Fall and Spring opening and closing of the residence halls, Housing Selection, Commencement & Reunion Housing, and all extended housing processes. Facilities and Operations staff on this team contribute to the physical, environmental, security and general maintenance conditions for the residence halls by partnering with Facilities Management to manage over 25,000 residence hall keys and 1.9 million square feet of living space on campus. Residential Operations David Cavallaro Assistant Director, Administrative Operations David_Cavallaro@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns he/him/his David joined the Office of Residential Life in March 2020 as the Assistant Director of Administrative Operations. The Assistant Director of Administrative Operations manages housing assignments, housing lottery, commencement housing, and the Residential Life website. David previously worked as a Residence Hall Director for the University of Connecticut from July 2015 where he supervised Graduate students and student leaders in the residence halls. David also worked closely with professional staff training and onboarding for the Department of Residential Life at UConn, student leadership staffing processes, and summer housing and programs. Prior to his work at UConn David was a live on professional in Residence Life for Providence College and worked closely with facilities and operations. David earned his M. Ed in Counseling with a focus on Higher Education from Providence College and his B.A. in History from Saint Michael’s College. Outside of work David is the parent of two daughters and enjoys spending time with family and friends. Andre Dubois Facilities & Operations Coordinator andre_dubois@brown.edu 401-863-3502 Pronouns he/him/his Andre joined the office of Residential Life in May 2021 as a Facilities and Operations Coordinator. The Facilities and Operations Coordinator position includes overseeing the management of a quarter of the residential buildings on campus and also having knowledge of the inner workings of the key office. Andre has been involved with Brown for over 20 years working with various organizations including Student Activities, Alumni, and Athletics including such events as Campus Dance, Spring Weekend, and Commencement. Prior to working with Residential Life he was a part of the service industry for over 30 years as a pest control professional. When he is not working Andre likes to spend with time with his family, three grown children and his wife. He has been a resident of Rhode Island for all of his life. Nick Greene Associate Director of Residential Operations and Communications Nicholas_Greene1@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns he/him/his A first-generation college student, Nick earned his B.S. in History at The College at Brockport before earning his Ed.M. in Student Affairs Administration at the University at Buffalo. His first experience at Brown was in the summer of 2017 when he served as the Housing Manager for the Summer@Brown program as part of his ACUHO-I graduate internship. Nick returned to Brown in July of 2018 to work as the Program Manager for Operations, where he oversaw housing assignments for Brown’s pre-college programs, as well as the early arrival and extended housing processes. In his current role, Nick oversees housing operations policy and communications as well as managing the department’s housing management system, StarRez. Nick was awarded the SAS Sarah Volante Facilitator Award and the 2020 Rising Star Excellence Award. Outside of work, Nick enjoys playing video games, reading, and spending time with his partner and their Boston Terrier, Gus. Contact Nick with questions about: ResLife policy and StarRez. Jessica Herisse Operations Assistant jessica_herisse@brown.edu Pronouns She/her/hers Jessica Herisse joined Residential Life as an Operations Assistant in the spring of 2021. As an Operations Assistant she addresses student lockouts, ensuring residents are able to safely access campus after-hours. She also helps with key inventory of the dormitory buildings and other projects in the Key Office. Before taking time away from work to be a stay-at-home mom to her five children, Jessica worked as event planner in Human Resources as well as the insurance industry. She is a proud homeschool parent who teaches high school math at the co-op her children attend. She also serves on the Board of Rhode Island's oldest homeschool organization. A rural area in the East Bay is where her family raises puppies, chickens, and ducks. In her spare time she can be found spending time with her family and frequenting the movies. Sarah Kamara Facilities & Operations Coordinator sarah_kamara@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns She/her/hers Sarah joined the Office of Residential LIfe in May of 2021 as a Facilities and Operations Coordinator. The Facilities and Operations position includes overseeing the management of a quarter of the residential buildings on campus, and having knowledge of the inner workings of the Key Office. After graduating from URI with a BA in Economics and a Minor in Business in 2016, Sarah worked at Chamberlain International School, a therapeutic boarding school in Massachusetts. Sarah managed a dorm, provided both physical and emotional support and planned events and activities for the students to participate in campus wide, encouraging positive youth interaction and healthy boundaries. Outside of work Sarah is a huge supporter of music and art, visiting museums when the chance arises and creating day long playlists for the perfect occasions. Sarah also enjoys painting, photography, Anime, Manga, reading, and writing poetry. Steven Lewis Assistant Director of Residential Facilities and Operations Steven_Lewis@brown.edu 401-863-3502 Pronouns he/him/his Steven has been with Brown for 12 years and in his 2nd year with ResLife. Steven has spent many years in various Customer Service Management positions. Steven now serves students, parents, faculty and staff in all dorm room related matters. He is the main liaison between residents and the Facilities departments. He manages all dorm furniture, room renovations and health and safety inspections. Steven also works closely with Student Conduct and the Fire Marshall in regards to room concerns and code violations. Outside of work Steven is a very proud single parent of an accomplished son. Steven enjoys cycling, golf, photography, long drives and all types of racing! Stephanie Norris Program Manager of Residential Operations stephanie_norris@brown.edu Pronouns She/her/hers Stephanie Norris joined the Office of Residential Life in November 2020 and transitioned into her role as Program Manager of Residential Operations in April 2022. As the Program Manager of Residential Operations, Stephanie oversees early arrival and extended housing processes, in addition to summer program and winter break housing processes. Stephanie earned her Bachelor of Science in Justice and Law Administration in 2013 from Western Connecticut State University and her Master of Public Administration in 2019 from Penn State University. Prior to Brown, Stephanie was Director of Student Services at EF Academy, a private international boarding school. She was responsible for the overall functioning and performance of the department of Student Services which served 700+ international students in matters related to housing, maintenance, and travel. Outside of work Stephanie enjoys traveling to tropical and historical destinations. She loves reading, writing, eating spicy food and playing tennis. She also enjoys spending time with her adventurous toddler, family, and friends. James Rathbun Facilities & Operations Coordinator james_rathbun@brown.edu 401-863-3502 Pronouns he/him/his James joined Residential Life in May 2021 as a Facilities and Operations Coordinator. James transferred from Brown Dining Services where he had worked as an operations manager since 2011. As a Facilities and Operations Coordinator James is responsible for overseeing the physical, environmental, security and general maintenance conditions for over a dozen student housing properties across campus. Prior to coming to Brown James had a career in residential construction. Outside of Brown James enjoys spending time with his wife and two kids. Alex Reyes Facilities & Operations Coordinator alex_reyes@brown.edu 401-863-3502 Pronouns He/him/his Alex is part of the new acquired FOC, the team contributes to the physical, environmental, security and general maintenance conditions for the residence halls by partnering with Facilities Management to manage over 25,000 residence hall keys and 1.9 million square feet of living space on campus. In 2001 Alex moved from his native Guatemala, to settle in on Cambridge Massachusetts. Same year he was introduced to the food and beverage industry where he held different positions. Alex’s commitment to provide high quality customer service carried him to Brown University in 2007 as a Retail Dining Supervisor and later as Supervisor at the Faculty Club in 2010. Alex’s diverse background supports his daily goals to deliver service excellence in every aspect of his job. In his spare time Alex enjoy cooking for his family and friends while spending time on different DIY projects on his house. David Saenz Housing Assignments Coordinator david_saenz@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns he/him/his David moved from South America to Queens, NY at age 15. He earned his B.S. in Psychology and M.A. in Higher Education Administration at Stony Brook University. During his time at Stony Brook David served as a Resident Assistant as well as an Assistant Coordinator for Residential Community Standards. Prior to joining the Office of Residential Life at Brown David worked at Adelphi University as a live-in Residence Hall Director and later as an Assistant Director. Both roles combined responsibilities for residential education as well as operations and management. David also supervised student staff and leaders in the residence halls. While not at work David enjoys video games, watching movies and tv series as well as going for bicycle rides. He is also known for watching YouTube videos on widely varied topics such as history, travel gear, automobiles, lockpicking, technology, and personal finance among others. Evan Torres Operations Assistant evelyn_torres@brown.edu Pronouns he/him/his Evan started out as a temp worker for Residential Life in March 2021, and officially became part of the Brown family the following July. His role as an Operations Assistant addresses late-night student lockouts, dorm key inventory, and general assistance with the Key Office. He is originally from Chicago, IL where he received his Associate's degree in Media Arts and Sciences, then moved to the New England area in 2015. He has many years of customer service experience as a Hilton Hotel front desk receptionist and even as a Disney Store cast member, that supports his role at Brown. Outside of Brown, Evan is a creative individual who loves illustrating and graphic design. He is also passionate about nature and animals. Particularly his menagerie of pets and houseplants. Other miscellaneous interests include horseback riding, movies, history, cooking, and board games. Alexis Wilson Operations Assistant alexis_wilson@brown.edu 401-863-3502 Pronouns She/her/hers Alexis Wilson joined Residential Life as an Operations Assistant in June of 2021. As an Operations Assistant she addresses student lockouts and Key Office matters, ensuring members of the community are able to safely access campus after-hours. Her time at Brown began in 2017 where she worked for the C.A.R.E department. Born and raised in Rhode Island, Alexis has spent the better part of a decade cementing her roots in Providence. Alexis is vocal about community outreach and strengthening the bond between Brown and the residents of Providence. She is most passionate about universal human rights and supporting at-risk youth. She can often be found volunteering during campus events or participating in rallies across the state. Outside of work Alexis is pet-parent to her two rescue cats Alley and Marshmallow. She enjoys arthouse horror films, Formula 1, roller skating, and spending an immeasurable amount of time at the beach. Area Coordinators Area Coordinators (ACs) comprise the team of staff who support the residential experience. ACs facilitate all aspects of the daily operations of the residence halls and supervise approximately 25 paraprofessional staff members each. ACs coordinate campus-wide and regionally-based programming efforts to cultivate community and foster and student development. ACs provide individual student support, assist with crisis intervention, serve in a regular on-call rotation, and address facilities concerns. Area Coordinators maisune abu-elhaija maisune@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns She/her/hers maisune joined Brown University as an Area Coordinator in August 2021. She graduated with a Master of Science in Higher Education and Bachelor of Arts in Communications from California State University, Fullerton. Previously, maisune has held roles in career services, residence life, multicultural affairs, student government organizations, research and assessment, non-profit management, and public service at both public and private institutions. Her student affairs philosophy draws on racial and cultural identity development theories, community narratives, and role modeling vulnerability. Born and raised in Southern California, maisune seeks opportunities to engage in globalizing experiences through higher education, government, and non-profit settings. In her free time, she loves cooking, playing with her kitty Nyla, and getting her nails done. Alfred Akuoko-Boateng Pronouns he/him/his Alfred is the oldest of seven children and is a first generation college with a Master’s degree in Higher Education and Student Affairs from SUNY Buffalo State College. Alfred's love for helping people dates back to his middle school days where he would tutor peers at the local library after school in various subjects. In high school and college, Alfred continued to volunteer his time to help others by enrolling to be a mentor in his High School Swartz Male Success Program and being part of the Global Book Hour at Wegmans while at Buffalo State College. Alfred brings experience from his work at Stony Brook University(SBU) and Quinnipiac University(QU). As a Resident Hall Director at SBU, Alfred also taught a Diversity Peer Education course, First Year Seminar and Student Leadership Course for 3 years. At QU, Alfred worked as part of the First Year Experience team supporting first year students and their transition to college. Alfred believes in honoring people’s stories in social justice work. He values being relational in his work, being a difference maker, encouraging student autonomy, and that he sees his role as contributing to raising up student needs and voice. Alfred's top 5 strengths per CliftonStrengths assessment are; Achiever, Arranger, Learner, Responsibility and Restorative. Mitchell Foster mitchell_foster@brown.edu Pronouns they/them/theirs/siya Mitchell is an Area Coordinator for First Year Experience and Houses. They graduated with a Masters in Public Administration and a Gender Studies Certificate from California State University, Chico and earned their bachelor's in Business Administration from University of St. La Salle in the Philippines. They started their career in student affairs as a Graduate Assistant for Residence Life at Chico State and transitioned to full-time position as a Coordinator for Residence Education at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, Arkansas where they worked for two years. They are the co-chair of the Multiracial Network (MRN) which is an active coalition of the American College Personnel Association (ACPA) that focuses on multiracial research and visibility. Mitchell identifies as bi-racial and non-binary and goes by they/them/siya pronouns. Their passion areas include international education, multiracial research and visibility, building community through vulnerability and authenticity, fostering environments of belonging, and developing programs and initiatives around transgender awareness and LGBTQ+ inclusion. Léhi Valladares lehi_valladares@brown.edu Pronouns he/him Léhi was born and raised in Honduras and moved to the United States in 2003 for the purpose--as has been the case for many immigrant families--of pursuing an education. He received his Bachelor's in Democracy and Justice Studies from the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay and his Master's in College Student Personnel Administration from the University of Central Arkansas. Prior to joining Brown, Léhi worked as an Area Coordinator at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. Through his experiences in higher education, both as a student and as a student affairs professional, Léhi has developed a passion for experiential learning and social psychology. In his spare time, Léhi enjoys reading, writing, and crossing off streaming shows from his interminable "Friend Recommendations" list. Stephanie Zielinski stephanie_sortino@brown.edu Pronouns She/her/hers Stephanie joined Brown University's Residential Life team as an Area Coordinator in August 2021. She grew up in Rochester, NY, and attended St. John Fisher College for her undergraduate studies, majoring in Business Management. She continued her education at the University at Buffalo, completing a Master’s degree in Higher Education Administration. During her time at Buffalo, Stephanie gained experience in career coaching, academic advising, orientation programming, student government organizations, and residential life. Before coming to Brown, she worked as a Resident Director at SUNY Brockport, specializing in the first year experience. Stephanie’s goal is to create an inclusive community where all students can find a home away from home to explore new relationships and discover their passions. Some of Stephanie’s hobbies and interests include playing board games, watching the Food Network, and exploring new places. Residential Education Residential Education Sarah Ballman sarah_ballman@brown.edu Pronouns She/her/hers Sarah joins the Office of Residential Education as the Assistant Director of Theme and Program Houses. As the Assistant Director, Sarah is responsible for supporting and developing the living-learning experience of returning students in specific themed residential communities. Sarah received her M.A. in Strategic Public Relations from the University of Southern California with a focus on Corporate Communication. In addition, she obtained a B.A in Finance and B.A in Telecommunications from Michigan State University. Sarah is from Ann Arbor, Michigan, and has worked in numerous Student Affairs roles over the years. However, it all started many years ago when she worked as a RA during her undergrad at Michigan State University. Prior to joining the Brown University team, she was working at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas implementing and developing its Residential Commons system. Sarah believes that collegiate residential programs should be student-driven, with a focus on creating a sense of belonging for residents. In her spare time, Sarah enjoys spending time with family, watching and discussing film and television, and baking. Sarah also has a passion for travel, having visited six of the seven continents (just missing Antarctica). Kris Tangen kristoffer_tangen@brown.edu Pronouns he/him/his Kris joined the Office of Residential Education in August of 2021 as the Assistant Director of First Year Experience & Orientation. As the Assistant Director, Kris is responsible for supporting and developing the First Year Experience for Residential Education as well as the overall execution of the Orientation program, welcoming in all first time students at Brown University. Kris earned his Bachelor of Arts in History in 2015 from Bridgewater State University and his Master of Science in Human Development and Family Studies with a concentration in College Student Personnel in 2017 from The University of Rhode Island. His research for his Master of Science involved engagement of students in transition to their University and solidified his passion for working with incoming college students. Through all of the career milestones he has accomplished, the First Year Experience has always been present in his work. Kris believes in creating an equitable student-centered experience that is both thought provoking and engaging. All of the work he does is inspired by the proverb "A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit". His top 5 Strengths through CliftonStrengths are Responsibility, Empathy, Positivity, Achieve, Belief. In his spare time Kris practices cooking, running Dungeons and Dragons campaigns, or listening to podcasts while riding his bicycle. Kris loves taking the time to listen to the stories of others, please stop by and say hello! Sue Vieira susan_vieira@brown.edu 401-863-3500 Pronouns She/her/hers Sue joined the Office of Residential Life in August 2021 as the Residential Life Coordinator. She is responsible for front office reception and coordinates student staff recruitment and selection. She also supports major Residential Life projects, and coordinates the office’s DIAP efforts. Sue comes to Residential Life from the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) where she was Executive Assistant to the Vice President of OIED. She previously worked in both Global Brown supporting international students and visitors, and the Office of the Dean of the College supporting Transfer, Visiting and RUE students, and Academic Support Services. Sue graduated from the University of Rhode Island with a bachelor's degree in Psychology, and is currently completing a Master's degree in Higher Education Administration at Providence College. Outside of work, she enjoys nature, hiking, reading and theatre, and is passionate about social justice. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Our Staff Open details for Our Staff Bookmark this Page