Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: New Student Conference Overnight Accommodationskara_humphreys2022-05-19T14:25:06-05:00 Welcome to the Aggie family! Allow us to take care of your housing needs during your New Student Conference (NSC). Conferences & Guest Services within the Department of Residence Life would like to ease your NSC planning by inviting you, family members and friends to stay with NSC Housing. Conveniently located next to all your conference activities, our housing is an affordable option for any traveling students in need of place to stay during their conference. Please know that NSC Housing tends to fill quickly and is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Unfortunately, New Student Conference housing is not available for January & August conferences since current students occupy our halls and apartments. NOTE: Overnight Accommodations must be completed three (3) business days prior to your NSC. You will not be able to reserve your space past this point. If you have general on-campus housing questions for the upcoming academic year, please contact the Housing Assignments Office at 979-845-4744. If you are unable to reach a staff member due to excessive call volume, you may also email housing@reslife.tamu.edu. New Student Conference Information NSC Overnight Accommodations is OPTIONAL, therefore the cost for overnight accommodations is NOT included in the NSC registration fees. You will not pay for NSC Overnight Accommodations at your conference. The cost for NSC Overnight Accommodations will appear on the student’s fee statement, which will be charged in early August. To see where the NSC Overnight Accommodations Residence Halls and The Gardens Apartments are located on campus, please view our map. NOTE: Guests are responsible for bringing their own pillows. What will be provided with a linen packet in the room will be bed sheets, a blanket, a bath towel, a hand towel, a wash cloth, and a bar of soap. If you have forgotten your pillow, they may be provided upon request. Please read our Guest Health & Safety Brochure before your stay. Rates Late Registration If you request Overnight Accommodations after the registration period has ended, or upon arrival, without a reservation prior to your NSC, there will be an additional Late Registration Fee of $15.00 for each guest, as space is limited. New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Options Student Housing Options Residence Hall Room Type Rates Modular Halls Wells, Rudder, Underwood, Applet Halls (Depending on Conference Date) Double Room: Share a room with another student, family member, or friend Max for a double room is 2 persons. $31/night/person Single Room: Only one person in a room $62/night/person Family Housing Options Apartment Type Rates The Gardens *1-4 Person Reservation $110/night All rates subject to change. * The Gardens Apartments reserved for NSC Overnight Accommodations will be 2 Bedrooms/1 Bathroom apartments. Each Apartment will have the following: Furnished Apartment (No TV) Washer/Dryer 1 Full Size Bed in each bedroom Linen Pack provided for each bedroom Fitted Sheet Flat Sheet 2 Hand & Bath Towels 2 Washcloths 1 Cup, 1 Brown Bag (waste basket) Bar of Soap The Gardens Apartments Parking Information NSC parking permits allow parking in LOT 99a, and 99b at The Gardens. You can also park in lots 30a, 30c, 30d, 30e which are all located on the north side of campus near Hullabaloo. There are also NSC parking located in West Campus Garage, LOT 100a-g, and Cain Garage for events in the MSC and Rudder Tower/Auditorium. Check-In Process Residence Halls: Check-in for NSC Overnight Accommodations is at the Commons Desk. If you are checking in for pre-conference your check-in times will be between 10am – 9:00 pm. If you are checking in the day of your conference, your check-in time will be between 7:30 am-9 pm. All check-ins for residence halls will be at the Commons Desk if you chose dorm style. If you are lost or need assistance, please call 979.845.2821. If you chose apartment style accommodations, you can call the number on the door of the Gardens Community Center. A student’s photo ID and Universal Identification Number (UIN) are required for all check-ins. Gardens Apartments: Check-in at the Gardens Apartments (M-F 8am – 5pm) will be in the Gardens Apartments Community Center Room 101. After hours (5pm to 10pm) check-in will be in Room 127. NSC participants needing to check-in past 10pm due to an emergency will need to call the office (979-845-2261) during office hours to make arrangements. Our check-in desk closes at 10pm. Check-Out Process Residence Halls: All students and guests must check out by 10 am on the last day of their NSC. Guests will place all keys and access cards within the envelope provided at check-in and return the envelope to the drop box in their building specified during check-in. All personal items must be removed from the room at the time of check-out. Garden Apartments: Check-out at the Gardens is express. NSC participants at the end of the conference may drop off their keys in the provided envelope in the key drop box located at the North entrance of the building at any time or bring the key to the Gardens Apartments office in room 101 during office hours. If you have any question about check out during office hours please call a Gardens staff member at 979-845-2261. Incidental Charges While we hope your stay is enjoyable and smooth. Sometimes there are situations that can cause incidental charges. These will also be added to your fall tuition bill. Here are some common charges: Late Registration: If you register for Overnight Accommodation within 3 business days, there will be an additional $15 charge. Late Check-Out: If you check-out past 10 a.m. you will be charged a one night stay based on your reservation. Cancellation: If you cancel your Overnight Accommodation within 3 business days, you will be charged a one night stay based on your reservation. No-Show: If you don’t show up for your Overnight Accommodation, you will be charged a one night stay based on your reservation. Lost Key: Failure to turn in your Key after your stay will result in a $100 charge. Damages: This will be dependent on the damages themselves, and the charge will be based on contractors. Contact Us Hours of Operation: 8:00am – 5:00pm, M – F Phone: 979.845.9381 Email: conference-services@reslife.tamu.edu PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top