Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Special Interest Housing Learn about same-sex housing, substance-free housing and the Quiet Hall. Breadcrumb Home Housing Options Residence Halls Sub Navigation In This Section Room Types Gender Inclusive First-Year Housing Special Interest Housing Same-Sex Housing Some students request to live on an all-female or all-male hallway. We accommodate these requests by designating same-sex floors in coed residence halls. Substance-Free Housing This housing request comes from students who are committed to a substance free lifestyle. We have designated several halls as substance free. Residents in substance free housing agree that they and their guests will not consume alcohol or be under the influence of alcohol or other substances while in the residence hall. In addition, they agree to abide by the University's non-smoking policy, the University's prohibition against illegal drug use, and the University's policy which requires only medically prescribed use of prescription drugs. The substance-free community includes programs which promote a substance-free environment. Residents are included in program planning in order to ensure that the substance free housing mission is fulfilled. Ability to remain in substance free housing is predicated upon student observance of the substance free housing contract. Quiet Hall No excessive noise. Quiet Housing is a friendly place which seeks to maintain an environment conducive to sleep and study 24 hours a day, seven days a week. This hall is by no means an anti-social environment; it is simply one in which its residents are more considerate to and respectful of the desires of their hallmates to stick to their own sleep, work, and study schedules. Quiet housing has two simple rules: Simply put, excessive noise is not permitted. Those who wish to listen to music or televisions do so with their doors closed and at low volumes. Residents are responsible for the conduct of their guests. Guests are expected to maintain the same standards of quiet as residents. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Special Interest Housing Open details for Special Interest Housing Bookmark this Page