Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Contactkara_humphreys2021-04-26T11:53:10-05:00 CONTACT Residential Area Offices Corps Area Housing Office Texas A&M University 1253 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1253 Location: Plank Leadership Learning Center, Room 106 Hours of Operation: 7:30am – 4:30pm, M – F Phone: 979.845.3443 Email: housing@corps.tamu.edu Gardens Apartments Office Texas A&M University 3365 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-3365 Location: Gardens Apartments Community Center Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.845.2261 Email: Gardens-Apartments@reslife.tamu.edu North Area Office, Dept. of Residence Life Texas A&M University 1253 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1253 Location: Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 101 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.845.4768 24 Hour Help Desk: 979.845.2821 South Area Office, Dept. of Residence Life Texas A&M University 1253 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1253 Location: Southside Commons, Suite 127 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.845.2235 24 Hour Help Desk: 979.845.2821 White Creek Apartments Office Texas A&M University 1281 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1281 Location: White Creek Apartments Activity Center, Suite 101 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.458.8500 Email: white-creek-apartments@reslife.tamu.edu For overnight deliveries that require a physical address: North Area Office 306 University Drive Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 101 College Station, TX 77840 South Area Office (including Corps) 676 Lubbock Drive Commons Suite 127 College Station, TX 77843 White Creek Apartments 225 Discovery Drive College Station, TX 77845-1281 Gardens Apartments 250 Calvin Moore Avenue College Station, TX 77843 Departmental Offices Housing Assignments Office Location: Student Services Building, Suite 117 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.845.4744 Toll-Free: 888.451.3896 Email: housing@tamu.edu Academic Support Initiatives Location: White Creek Community Center, Suites 122-132 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.458.0343 Email: academics@reslife.tamu.edu Conferences & Guest Services Location: Student Services Building, Suite 316 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.845.1279 Email: conference-services@reslife.tamu.edu Facilities & Operations Location: Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 106 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.862.3150 Email: facilities-operations@reslife.tamu.edu Facility Reservations & Event Coordination Location: Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 134 Phone: 979.458.9728 Email: events@reslife.tamu.edu Human Resources & Financial Services Office Location: The Gardens Apartments Community Center Phone: 979.845.8823 Email: housing@tamu.edu Residence Hall Tours Location: Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 104 Phone: 979.845.0557 Email: tours@reslife.tamu.edu Residence Education Location: Student Services Building, Suite 316 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.862.3158 Email: residence-education@reslife.tamu.edu Risk Management Location: Student Services Building, Suite 316 Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m., M – F Phone: 979.862.3158 Email: housing@tamu.edu Contact Dept. of Residence Life Hours of Operation: 8:00a.m. – 5:00p.m. | M – F (Except University Holidays) Phone: 888.451.3896 Email: housing@tamu.edu Send to Dept. of Residence Life Mailing Address Department of Residence Life Texas A&M University 1253 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1253 Shipping Address Department of Residence Life Texas A&M University 275 Joe Routt Blvd. College Station, TX 77843-1253 Delivery Address Department of Residence Life Texas A&M University – Student Services Building 471 Houston Street, Suite 117 College Station, TX 77843 Navigate the tabs below to learn about our functional areas or search our staff directory. Central Administrative Office Academic Support Initiatives Business Office Conference & Guest Services Facilities & Operations Housing Assignments Office Residence Education Risk Management University Apartments Corps Area Housing Office Central Administrative Office The Administrative Office has staff located in the various locations around campus but are predominantly located in the Student Services Building. These staff provide leadership and direction for all aspects of the Department of Residence Life and serve as central contacts for on-campus housing. The Department of Residence Life is responsible for managing and operating on-campus housing for undergraduate students, graduate students, and conference guests. The on campus community portfolio includes 25 non-cadet residence halls with accommodations for approximately 7,200 students, 12 Corps of Cadets residence halls with accommodations for approximately 2,500 cadets, and 13 apartment buildings which house approximately 2,100 students and families. Academic Support Initiatives Academic Support Initiatives (ASI), located in Suites 122-132 of the White Creek Community Center on West Campus, are programs, professional staff, facilities, and learning environments that contribute to student learning and success on-campus. Our mission is to provide a wide array of programs and services to enhance the academic experience and pursuits of on-campus Aggies. The initiatives include study spaces, faculty engagement and involvement, academic achievement events, and interventions that support residents. We strive to provide resources and a focus on academics that you will not find off-campus. Business Office The Business Office, located in the Gardens Apartments Community Center, is responsible for all human resources, budgeting, and accounting functions for the Department of Residence Life. Conference & Guest Services Conference & Guest Services, located in the Student Services Building, helps provide on-campus guest housing to University departments and student organizations for summer conferences and seminars, new student orientation visits, or educational visits to campus. Our office works with sponsors to provide guests with affordable housing that will make your stay on campus pleasant and comfortable, and as close to your meeting facilities as possible. Guest housing is provided in the Department of Residence Life residence halls. Our office will work with you to determine the best housing location, in accordance to your conference needs, and will assign well-experienced residence hall staff to work directly with you before, during, and after your event, providing you with personal in-hall assistance. We provide guest housing in three areas. These are New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations, Adult & Youth Conferences & Camps, Aggie Hostel, and Guest Apartments. Conference & Guest Services’ student tour guides provide walking tours of our residence hall facilities to potential Aggies, their families, and visitors. Facilities & Operations Facilities & Operations (F&O), located in Suite 106 in Hullabaloo Hall, is responsible for the oversight of all on-campus housing facilities which includes all Residence Halls, Corps Halls, White Creek Apartments, White Creek Activity Center, Gardens Apartments, Gardens Community Center, Commons and all other Residence Life Buildings. F&O prepares and tracks the five year maintenance and renovation plans for the buildings, including addressing deferred maintenance, as well as overseeing construction and renovation projects. F&O is the liaison with SSC Service Solutions & Chartwells (a private outsourced company hired by the University to provide maintenance, custodial, pest control, landscaping, and dining services) to ensure quality and timely responses to work requests for all Residence Life facilities. Meeting facilities are available for reservation by Texas A&M faculty, staff, and students in various Residence Life facilities around campus through Facility Reservations and Event Coordination. Facilities & Operations coordinates landline telephone rentals, the fire alarm/detection systems and furniture purchases for all on-campus housing facilities. Housing Assignments Office The Housing Assignments Office, located in the Student Services Building, is responsible for applications, contracts, assignments, and billing for all on-campus residents. The Housing Assignments Office handles much of the business related to students living in pay-by-the-semester on campus housing. These facilities include the residence halls, Corps of Cadets halls, some of The Gardens Apartments Buildings, and White Creek Apartments. Specifically, the Housing Assignments Office can assist you with: Applications Assignments Hall Changes Space Offers Cost of Housing/Billing Housing/Contract Appeals Contract Renewal Summer School Housing Interim Housing Card Access Residence Education Residence Education main office, located in the Student Services Building, and staff are committed to building inclusive communities that focus on learning, leadership, and meaningful relationships through the development of our students and staff. The office of Residence Education is responsible for staff selection and training of Community Directors, Graduate Hall Directors, and Resident Advisors. There are different operations that this office preforms. All are vital functions to best serve current on-campus residents. Please review each outlined below. Hall Offices Hall Offices are located on the first floor of each of our residence hall communities. Hall Offices are where Community Directors (CDs) and Graduate Hall Directors (GHDs) work who are your primary contact concerning residence hall matters, including: roommate conflicts, lost keys, access cards, hall programs/events, and discipline appeals. Search your hall name in the staff directory to learn who your hall contact is. Area Offices & 24-Hour Desks Our on campus community is large, so we are split into two distinct residential communities/zones: North Area and South Area residence halls. As you might have guessed, this is based on the geographic locations of the residence halls on main campus. For each area there is an Area Office, which is open during normal business office hours, and serves as a resident’s primary contact concerning residence hall matters should hall staff not be available. Visit the residential areas below for contact information. There is also a 24-hour desk in each residential area to support the needs of residents and help them get in contact with hall staff, especially outside of normal business hours. You can also find the contact information for each area’s 24 hour desk below. Risk Management The office of Risk Management, located in the Student Services Building, coordinates risk management initiatives and education for department staff, Residence Halls and University Apartments residents, and department sponsored student organizations. Specifically, the Office of Risk Management has three major oversight areas: Sets the direction, goals, agendas, and implementation strategies for departmental risk management efforts. Coordinates the establishment and implementation of a proactive risk management plan for department sponsored or recognized student organizations and their sponsored events and programs. Develops procedures related to risk management efforts, coordinates department wide emergency responses, and maintains, updates and disseminates the departmental Risk Management Guide. University Apartments University Apartments encompasses the management and operations related to two on-campus apartment communities. The Gardens Apartments Office, located in the Gardens Apartments Community Center, manages the Gardens Apartments. Residents must be graduate students, undergraduate students (at least 30 credit hours), married students, students with dependent children, international students, or students who are U.S. Military veterans. Students’ concerns are represented by the Gardens Community Council. The White Creek Apartments Office, located in the White Creek Apartments Activity Center, manages the White Creek Apartments. Residents must be single Texas A&M students who are freshmen and above. Students’ concerns are represented by the White Creek Community Council. Corps Area Housing Office The Corps Area Housing Office, located in Room 106 of Plank Leadership Learning Center, oversees the residence halls for the Corps of Cadets. We house approximately 2,500 cadets each year and actively support the Cadets by providing well maintained, safe and academically supportive living areas, and through customer service focused delivery of housing assignment, billing and check-in and out processes. PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top