Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Aggie Hostelkara_humphreys2022-05-24T11:17:17-05:00 AGGIE HOSTEL Providing temporary housing to support student endeavors. Current Texas A&M students looking for temporary summer housing to stay with Aggie Hostel. AGGIE HOSTEL REGISTRATION WILL BE LIVE SOON FOR July 4th – July 31st, 2022! Our Hostel is designed for students needing housing before or after attending Fish Camp, international students needing temporary housing upon arriving in the U.S., or students in town for other academic-related reasons during the summer. All students requesting to stay must have a 9-digit Texas A&M University Identification Number (UIN). Due to limited housing space, students may request to stay a maximum of three-nights and will not be allowed to arrive earlier or depart later than the specified selected dates. If you would like to stay more than 3 nights, please email Conference-Services@reslife.tamu.edu to discuss this possibility. Availability Aggie Hostel is available from Monday, July 4th to Sunday, July 31st, 2022. Check-out is at 10:00am at the end of your reservation. All students must move out of their hostel by 10:00am August 1st. Rooms are set up as double rooms and will be a residence hall on the north side of campus. No linens will be provided so students will need to bring their own sheets, pillow, pillowcase, blanket, or sleeping bag. Students will be responsible for their own dining and parking. Rates TBD Reservation Request To complete your Aggie Hostel request, please click on the Complete the Aggie Hostel Request button below. You will be directed to Texas A&M’s Central Authentication System (CAS) where you will log in using your NetID and password. You will then be directed to the Aggie Hostel Request Form. You will need to log in or create an Iris Account to log in. Then just follow the on-screen instructions for completing the request. Complete the Aggie Hostel Request NOTE : Maximum Stay: 3 consecutive nights. Exceptions may be granted, but only on a case-by-case basis. Email Conference-Services@reslife.tamu.edu to discuss exceptions. Registration is closed at 3:00pm each business day in order to plan for our guests’ stay on the following business day. Registration for a certain day must be completed by 3:00pm the day before. (i.e. If you are staying July 20th, you must complete your reservation by 3 PM on July 19th.) If making arrangements after this deadline, you may be admitted on a walk-on basis. Space is limited and not guaranteed for walk-ons. After registering for Aggie Hostel, you should receive a confirmation email with the details of your registration. If you do not, please contact our office at 979.845.1279. Our office is open Monday through Friday 8am-5pm. Check-In Process Check-In: Check-in for Aggie Hostel is 5:30 pm to 8:00 pm every day at the 24-hour desk in Hullabaloo Hall. Hullabaloo Hall is located at 306 University Drive, College Station, Texas 77843. You will receive your key, access card, and a check-out envelope. Please call 979-845-2821 and press 1 for Northside. A staff member will be with you on the phone for assistance momentarily. If you receive a busy signal. Please wait a few minutes and try again. Late Check-In: If arriving after 8:30 PM for Aggie Hostel, please visit the Northside 24-Hour Desk at Hullabaloo Hall. Hullabaloo Hall is a building that is located on the north side of campus adjacent to University Drive. The address for Hullabaloo Hall is 306 University Drive, College Station, Texas 77843. Please call at least 15 minutes prior to arrival at 979-845-2821 and press 1 to reach the 24-Hour Desk on the south side of campus. If you are having issues reaching someone at the Northside 24-Hour Desk, please try again in a few minutes the 979-845-2821 pressing 1. If you feel you are unable to make this check-in time frame, you can reach out to our office (979-845-1279) we are open between 8:00 am – 5:00 pm, Monday – Friday. Check-Out Process Check Out: Check-out is no later than 10:00 am. Failure to check-out by 10:00 am can result in an extra day being charged to your student account. Please place your key and access card in the Check-out Envelope and bring them to the Hullabaloo Hall 24-Hour Desk. Hullabaloo Hall is located at 306 University Drive, College Station, Texas 77843. Need assistance? Call 979-845-2821 and press 1 for Northside or stop by the 24 HR Service Desk in Hullabaloo Hall. You can also reach out to our office (979-845-1279) as we are open between 8:00 am – 5:00 pm, Monday – Friday. Contact Us Location: Student Services Building, Suite 316 Hours of Operation: 8:00am – 5:00pm, M – F Phone: 979.845.1279 Email: Conference-Services@reslife.tamu.edu PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top