Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Adult & Youth Conferenceskara_humphreys2022-03-11T16:33:03-06:00 ADULT & YOUTH CONFERENCES We offer a variety of full service, convenient and affordable on-campus housing for youth and adult groups, as well as continuing education conferences during the summer. Whether you’re looking to book a corporate or educational symposium, sports camp, or other event – Residence Life’s Conference & Guest Services has lodging to meet your needs, all in a beautiful campus setting! Due to increased demand, we will only be accepting Summer 2022 conference housing applications until May 1st. Eligibility To be eligible to utilize on-campus housing at Texas A&M University, a camp or conference must have a sponsoring Texas A&M University department. Contact Conference & Guest Services to learn more. Contracts We want to get it right. We will provide each camp/conference with a Housing Contract that details your stay and the additional services you may require. Contracts must be fully signed and submitted to Conference & Guest Services a minimum of 30 days prior to the first day of the camp or conference. Failure to do so may result in cancellation of housing. Summer 2022 Camps & Conferences Housing Options Each year different residence halls and/or apartments are chosen for housing conference guests each summer. This is because our facility needs change based on the demand for summer school housing and planned construction/renovation projects. Specific housing facilities for Summer 2022 are shown in the Camps & Conferences Housing Rates section below. Summer 2022 Camps & Conferences Housing Rates Residence Hall / Corps Hall Housing Rates Per Person Per Night No Linen | Weekly Linen Double Rate Single Rate | Double Rate Single Rate Hullabaloo Hall $47 $52 | $52 $57 Modular Halls: Haas, Hobby, Lechner, Neeley,McFadden $37 $41 | $42 $46 Corps Dorms: Dorm 1 - Spence, Dorm 2 - Kiest, Dorm 3 - Briggs, Dorm 4 - Fountain, Dorm 5 - Gainer, Dorm 6 - Lacy, Dorm 7 - Leonard, Dorm 8 - Harrell, Dorm 9 - Whiteley, Dorm 10 - White, Dorm 11 - Harrington, Dorm 12 - Utay $32 $35 | | | | $37 $40 Commons Halls: Krueger, Mosher, $35 $44 | $40 $49 Ramp Halls: Walton $30 $33 | $35 $38 Balcony Halls: Fower, Hughes, Keathley, Schuhmacher $30 $33 | N/A N/A Aggie Hostel $32 $62 | N/A N/A Internship Housing: (REU) Fower, Hughes, Keathley, N/A $30 | N/A N/A All rates are subject to change. Apartments Housing Rates Per Apartment Per Night No Linen With Linen White Creek Apartments * (Apt Bedroom per person per night) $36 $41 * Conference & Guest Services will make assignments based on the size of the reservation submitted by the sponsor. All rates are subject to change. Reservation Request Residence Life is ready and willing to serve you and your continuing education conference. Please submit a Continuing Education Conference Request Form and a representative will be in touch within two business days. Before you begin, you will need: TAMU Sponsoring Department and Contact Conference On-Site Contact TAMU Billing Account Number Estimated numbers of guests/room Approximate Check In/Out Dates Continue to Request Form Additional Information Guest Rules & Safety Information Welcome to Aggieland! We know you have many options for housing while you are here for your conference and we are very glad you have chosen to stay in on-campus housing! Although your conference is just a few days, we want your stay with us to be enjoyable and safe. For that reason we have created a flyer full of important information that could be useful to your during your stay with us. Whether it’s phone numbers, rules, or safety guidelines you have questions about, we’ve got you covered! | Download the Guest Health, Safety, & Security flyer. Services and Specifics Bed Linens/Towels Bed linen and towels can be requested for an addition fee. Cost varies depending on the services being requested by the sponsoring department. Bed linen will only be changed once a week, but towels may be exchanged daily, twice weekly, or once a week. Guests will be provided with a linen packet upon arrival which contains bed sheets, a pillow and pillow case, a blanket, a bath towel, a hand towel, a wash cloth, and a bar of soap. If linen service is not requested, free laundry facilities are available to guests in or near all of our facilities. Billing Account Numbers Sponsoring departments for each camp/conference must provide us with a 13-digit AR or IDT account number. Refer to the Texas A&M University’s Standard Administrative Procedure 24.01.06.M0.01: Camps and Program for Minors: Section 4: Payments for a detailed outline of the payment process. Cancellations If housing is cancelled less than thirty (30) day prior to the starting date, the sponsoring organization will be charged 50% of the rate for one night’s lodging for the total number of beds reserved. Late Fees & Penalty Fees We strongly recommend establishing a deadline date for your guests to register for your conference, as well as a late registration fee. We recommend that your registration deadlines end two (2) weeks prior to when your conference or camp begins. We will be sending you a room assignment roster two (2) weeks prior to your conference, and will require that you send the completed roster back to us five (5) working days before your conference begins. Penalty Fees have been set up by us for late additions or deletions to the roster. Late Room Additions If, within seventy-two (72) hours of the conference start date, the sponsor requests five (5) or more additional rooms, the conference or camp will be billed an additional surcharge of $35.00 for each additional room. This cost is to cover additional work by staff for extra time and labor that is involved. Reduction of Guest Numbers If the number of guests reduces by more than 50% fourteen (14) days or less prior to the start of the event, the sponsoring organization will be charged 50% of the rate of one night’s lodging for the total number of beds reduced from the room block that is being held. Security We require conferences/camps of 200 or more to hire security to monitor guests and residence halls. Contact the University Police Department. Youth & Minor Camps Youth and Enrichment Camps consist of minors (under 18-years of age). Camps must provide a minimum of one adult counselor for ever fifteen campers. See Camps & Programs for Minors for the formal approval process for all camps involving minors. The Camp and Programs for Minors review and approval process is guided by Texas A&M University Rule for Campus Programs for Minors (24.01.06.M1). Please review all of this information for more in-depth definitions of camps and enrichment programs, and for an explanation of the approval process and required documentation. Youth Camps are set up for children and teens to enhance or educate their skills and provide them with an opportunity to meet other children and see other places. Enrichment programs are relatively short courses based around a single educational topic. Each session usually lasts no more than a few weeks or a month. Links for Planning Your Stay University Dining – Chartwells Scheduling Meeting Rooms Special Events Facilities TAMU Guest Internet Access Department Guests and Conference Parking Summer Camp Parking Transportation Services Texas A&M Campus Programs for Minors University Center University Police Department Contact Us Location: Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 110 Hours of Operation: 8:00am – 5:00pm, M – F Phone: 979.845.1279 Email: conference-services@reslife.tamu.edu PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top