Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Breadcrumb Home Housing Options Sub Navigation In This Section Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Disability Accommodation Requests Contact Student Accessibility Services (SAS) at sas-housing@brown.edu SAS Website Religious Requests Contact Residential Life at res_life@brown.edu ResLife Website Background Residential college life is a critical component of the Brown educational experience. The On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy requires degree-seeking undergraduate students actively enrolled in courses at Brown to have a housing assignment in an on-campus residence hall for every semester of enrollment until semester level 07 unless they are on a study away or study abroad program approved by the Office of International Programs. Every Spring, upper-division students apply for on-campus housing through the annual lottery-based general housing assignment process. Students with disabilities may request reasonable accommodations in their housing assignments and students may request a specific feature in their housing assignment based on their religious beliefs, observances, and practices by submitting the Housing Accommodations & Requests Form. What is Changing? Effective Spring 2022, the Division of Campus Life will implement an updated process for students with disabilities to request reasonable accommodations in their housing assignments and for students to request specific features in their housing assignment based on their religious beliefs, observances, and practices. The updated process is designed to increase clarity and create a simpler process for all students. Please read the following materials carefully. Qualifying Requests Disability Accommodation Requests Students with disabilities may request reasonable accommodations in their housing assignments by completing the Housing Accommodations & Requests Form. A complete application must include (1) a request form with details related to the student’s disability, and (2) documentation provided by the student’s health care provider. The Office of Student Accessibility Services (SAS) reviews each request, determines the appropriate reasonable accommodation, and notifies the Office of Residential Life of the approved accommodation. The Office of Residential Life makes the student’s housing assignment based on the accommodation approved by SAS. Religious Requests Students may request specific features in their housing assignment based on their religious beliefs, observances, and practices by completing the Housing Accommodations & Requests Form. This may include a religious-based diet with particular food preparation needs or recurring practices such as washing, prayer, or other religious ceremonies. A complete application must include a request form with details related to the student’s religious affiliation, observances, and practices. The Office of Residential Life in consultation with additional offices, such as the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life, as appropriate, reviews each request and determines the appropriate housing assignment. Request Process The request process will open and close on the following dates: Disability Accommodation Requests - Priority deadline for Fall 2022 is February 9, 2022 An update from our colleagues from the Office of Student Accessibility Services: The pre-selection deadline for disability housing accommodation requests was February 9th. The Housing Accommodation Request Form has been paused at this time. The forms will become available after General Housing Selection is complete, Monday April 18th. Religious Requests - Deadline for Fall 2022 is February 9, 2022 Requests will be reviewed in the order in which they are received. Reviews typically require 2-4 weeks and are contingent upon the completeness of the request. Follow the steps below to submit a request; please do not contact individual offices or staff members to initiate the process. Review the detailed qualification descriptions, documentation requirements, and FAQs on this webpage. Complete the appropriate form in the StarRez housing portal. This form will ask you to select your request type. Based on this selection, the form will populate with questions and any documentation requirements specific to your request. Completed requests must include this submitted form and any required documentation BEFORE the deadline. We are unable to process incomplete requests. Disability Accommodation Requests. SAS reviews each disability accommodation request, determines the appropriate reasonable accommodation, and notifies the Office of Residential Life of the approved accommodation. SAS will also notify you of the outcome of your request and any approved accommodation. The Office of Residential Life makes your housing assignment based on the accommodation approved by SAS. If the Office of Residential Life determines that the approved accommodation cannot be met in an on-campus residence hall, you may be exempted from the on-campus housing requirement. You can accept the housing assignment in the StarRez housing portal. If you choose to decline the housing assignment or if you are not approved for an accommodation, you must enroll in the general housing lottery to receive a housing assignment. Students with disabilities may request reasonable modifications to this request process by contacting Student Accessibility Services at SAS-housing@brown.edu or 401-863-9588. Religious Requests. The Office of Residential Life in consultation with additional offices, such as the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life, as appropriate, reviews requests for specific features in a housing assignment based on religious beliefs, observances, and practices and determines the appropriate housing assignment. If the Office of Residential Life determines that the religious request cannot be met in an on-campus residence hall, you may be exempted from the on-campus housing requirement. You can accept the housing assignment in the StarRez housing portal. If you choose to decline the housing assignment, you must enroll in the general housing lottery to receive a housing assignment. Appeal Process Disability Accommodations Disability Accommodation Request Appeals You may appeal the decision of SAS or the Office of Residential Life in the following circumstances: Your request for an accommodation is denied by SAS; Your request for an accommodation is approved by SAS, but the accommodation approved by SAS does not meet your needs; or Your request for an accommodation is approved by SAS, but the housing assignment provided by the Office of Residential Life does not meet your approved accommodation(s). Appeals should be submitted within five (5) business days of notification of the accommodation decision or housing assignment and should set forth the reason(s) for the appeal and any supporting materials; using the Disability Housing Accommodation Request Appeals Form. Appeals will be reviewed by the Director of Student Accessibility Services or their designee. You may appeal the decision based on one or more of the following grounds: (1) there is relevant new information that was not reasonably available at the time you submitted your request, and/or (2) a material procedural error by the University. The Director will review the original request and any additional information submitted in the appeal and determine whether to uphold or modify the decision. If the Director upholds the original decision, you may submit an appeal of the Director’s decision to the University's ADA/Section 504 Coordinator. Information on this appeal process is available at https://www.brown.edu/campus-life/support/accessibility-services/appeals. The decision of the ADA/Section 504 Coordinator is final. Religious Requests Religious Request Appeals You may appeal the decision of the Office of Residential Life in the following circumstances: Your request for a specific feature in your housing assignment is denied; or Your request for a specific feature in your housing assignment is approved, but the specific feature provided by the Office of Residential Life does not meet your needs. Appeals should be submitted in writing to the Senior Associate Dean and Senior Director of Residential Life or their designee within five (5) business days of notification of the decision and should set forth the reason(s) for the appeal and any supporting materials; using the Religious Housing Request Appeal Form. You may appeal the decision based on one or more of the following grounds: (1) there is relevant new information that was not reasonably available at the time you submitted your request, and/or (2) a material procedural error by the University. The Senior Associate Dean and Director shall review the original request and any additional information submitted in the appeal and determine whether to uphold or modify the decision. The decision of the Senior Director is final. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) What is different about this process from the previous housing accommodations and extenuating circumstances processes? The new process provides a simpler, streamlined, single point of entry for students to request accommodations. The new process also clarifies the conditions for requesting disability accommodations and religious requests, provides a detailed overview of the process steps, and outlines a formal appeals process. Who makes the decision about my accommodation or request? SAS reviews each disability accommodation request, determines the appropriate reasonable accommodation, and notifies the Office of Residential Life of the approved accommodation. SAS will also notify you of the outcome of your request and any approved accommodation. The Office of Residential Life makes your housing assignment based on the accommodation approved by SAS. For religious requests, the Office of Residential Life will review your request and make a decision in consultation with the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life, as appropriate. Once approved, the Office of Residential Life will make an appropriate housing assignment. Can I get approved for off-campus housing through this process? If the Office of Residential Life determines that an approved disability accommodation or religious request cannot be met in an on-campus residence hall, a student may be exempted from the on-campus housing requirement. Will I get to share my preference for a specific residence hall or room? No. If you are approved for a disability accommodation or religious request, the Office of Residential Life will determine the appropriate housing assignment. What if I do not agree with the decision that is made? Please refer to the information provided about the appeal process. I signed an off-campus lease. Will this factor into the review of my disability accommodation request or religious request? The signing of a lease for off-campus housing is not justification for receiving off-campus approval, and students are advised not to sign a lease without confirmation of such approval. The signing of a lease - and any resulting financial difficulties - will not factor into the review of a student’s disability accommodation request or religious request. If I was approved for housing accommodations last year, do I have to submit a new request this year? Each academic year or housing cycle, all students requesting an accommodation must complete this process. There are lots of reasons why students may need accommodations one year and do not need them the next (e.g., student is taking leave, studying abroad, or requesting accommodation for a disability that is temporary) so it is important to complete the online housing accommodation request form for each academic year or housing cycle. What is the timeline for the housing accommodations and requests process? Disability Accommodation Requests: Review of disability requests typically requires 2-4 weeks and is contingent upon the completeness of this form. All other requests are reviewed during the pre-selection phase of housing selection, which typically occurs in late January or early February. SAS will be unable to review incomplete requests. For acute and urgent requests (e.g. broken leg or emergency surgery), please connect with Student Accessibility Services as soon as possible by emailing sas@brown.edu or calling 401-863-9588. Religious Requests: All religious requests are reviewed during the pre-selection phase of housing selection, which typically occurs in late January or early February. Am I allowed to choose a student to live with or near me (i.e., have a “pull-in?”) Disability Accommodation Requests: Approved accommodations apply specifically to the individual with a disability. Pre-selection housing accommodation requests may allow for one pull-in (not guaranteed). In reference to the Office of Residential Life guidelines, it is not possible to place large groups or assign other students to a space they are not eligible for based on semester level, etc. Religious Requests: The Office of Residential Life will attempt to assign together in the housing unit (room, suite, apartment, etc.) students with similar religious practices in order to support each others’ religious beliefs, observances, and practices. To facilitate such a supportive environment, you will have an opportunity on the request form to designate other students who share your religious beliefs, observances, and practices with whom you would like to live, if possible. In reference to the Office of Residential Life guidelines, it is not possible to place large groups or assign other students to a space they are not eligible for based on semester level, etc. Disability Accommodation Requests Contact Student Accessibility Services (SAS) at sas-housing@brown.edu SAS Website Religious Requests Contact Residential Life at res_life@brown.edu ResLife Website Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Open details for Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Bookmark this Page