Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Residence Hallskara_humphreys2020-09-08T15:53:15-05:00 RESIDENCE HALLS What does it mean to live on campus? Well, it’s a lot more than having a place to sleep. It’s your home while you’re here. The place where you hang out with friends. Talk to your roommates. Study. Kick back. Relax. Store your stuff. Sleep. Eat. It’s your own space. The place that says something about who you are, what you like, and what’s important to you. There are a few things to consider when choosing a residence hall that’s right for you. Here are a few things to think about before exploring our halls: Hall Style Residence Life offers six different types or styles of residence hall living: balcony style, corridor style, commons style, modular style, ramp style, and Hullabaloo Hall. These living styles feature many of the same amenities, but each differs in concept. They are showcased below. Residence Life offers students a variety of types of buildings to live in, and each building has something different to offer. Learn more about each hall and find your style as you explore living on campus at Texas A&M University. Living Learning Communities A Living Learning Community (LLC) is a residential clustering of students who share academic or social and cultural interests. Many of the living-learning options allow students to attend classes with the same group of peers in their residence hall, and some of the programs have faculty and academic adviser offices within the same residence hall. Some LLCs are major-specific, college specific, scholarship-based, or have other criteria for membership. Take a few minutes and explore what these tight-knit communities have to offer. Rates Residence Life is unique because students choose which hall they would like to live in, so students can choose any available space in the halls or apartments. We offer a variety of living options to accommodate the diverse needs of our resident population. Housing is first-come, first served so make sure to sign a contract as soon as possible. The rates page show the rates for the current year and term. Single Sex/Co-ed It’s also important to know the make-up of the community in the building. Some options offered on campus include: Single Gender by Floor, with the entire floor or wing and bathrooms on that floor/wing consisting of the same gender. Single Gender by Suite / Coed by Floor, rooms contain the same gender but there may be varying genders on each floor. Female Only and Male Only halls are also available. Take a look at the quick reference table on the top of each hall page to learn the make-up of the community. You might also review our Rates & At-A-Glance table to see an overview of all the options in one place. Overview by Hall Style See what life is like in our on campus residence halls. Don’t know where to start? Try these overviews of each of our hall styles. Hullabaloo Hall Hullabaloo Hall is a state of the art facility focused on the integration of the social and academic experience. This facility offers a variety of living options, all located conveniently near the Community Learning Center, Starbucks and multimedia rooms. Hullabaloo Hall Features Double and single rooms as well as double and single suites Private bathrooms in each room shared by 2-4 residents Rooms open to inside hallways First floor amenities: Community Learning Center, media room, mailboxes, etc. Commons Halls Commons style halls are accommodations featuring two roommates in a room, a shared bath and two suitemates. These halls are a popular choice on campus due to access to the Commons building with dining options, table games, nightly tutoring, and plenty of places to relax and study before class. Features Unique to Commons Halls Double rooms available A limited number of private rooms may come available after the halls open each semester Suite-style with two rooms connected by one bathroom shared by 2-4 residents Rooms open to inside hallways Convenience store Halls connected by a common area with the following: Dining Community Learning Center TV lounges Recreation area Mailboxes 24-hour desk Available Commons Halls Modular Halls Modular style halls feature rooms with a private bathroom shared by two roommates. “The Mods” offer a small close-knit community feel while still offering easy access to our campus hubs on both the Northside and Southside of campus. Features Unique to Modular Halls Double rooms with a limited number of residence hall apartments available A limited number of private rooms may come available after the halls open each semester Private bathrooms in each room shared by 1-2 residents Rooms open to inside hallways Available Modular Halls Balcony Halls Balcony style halls feature exterior hallways, two roommates in a room, a shared bath and two suitemates. Each of our balcony halls offers a rich tradition and history unique to the north side of campus. They also offer easy access to numerous academic buildings as well as multiple dining and recreation facilities. Features Unique to Balcony Halls Double rooms, single rooms, and a limited number of residence hall apartments available Suite-style with two rooms connected by one bathroom shared by 2-4 residents Rooms open onto an outside front balcony or porch Furniture included: desk, chair, bed, built-in cabinets and dresser (2 of each per room); junior lofts Community kitchen in Fowler, Keathley, and Schuhmacher Available Balcony Halls Corridor Halls Corridor style halls feature shared accommodations for two roommates. They also offer small close knit communities in a traditional college living experience and are located on the north side of campus with quick access to all of the amenities in Hullabaloo Hall. Features Unique to Corridor Halls Double rooms, single rooms, and a limited number of residence hall apartments available A limited number of private rooms may come available after the halls open each semester Community bath with 2 large facilities with private showers on each floor Rooms open to inside hallways Available Corridor Halls Ramp Halls Ramp style halls offer a variety of unique living experiences. Each of the “ramps” is a small community within our most historic halls on campus. Ramp style halls are located in the heart of the campus with all of the conveniences of the Memorial Student Center (MSC) and the new Hullabaloo Hall only steps away. Features Unique to Ramp Halls Double rooms with a limited number of single rooms available A limited number of private rooms may come available after the halls open each semester Arranged in ramps with four rooms per floor Suite-style with two rooms connected by one bathroom shared by 2-4 residents Rooms open to inside ramp-ways Window unit air conditioners Available Ramp Halls Housing Options Apartments The Gardens Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartment Reservation Request Guest Apartments Guest Apartment Accommodations Request Annual Housing Orientation White Creek Corps Housing Spence Hall (Dorm 1) Kiest Hall (Dorm 2) Briggs Hall (Dorm 3) Fountain Hall (Dorm 4) Gainer Hall (Dorm 5) Lacy Hall (Dorm 6) Leonard Hall (Dorm 7) Harrell Hall (Dorm 8) Whiteley Hall (Dorm 9) White Hall (Dorm 10) Harrington Hall (Dorm 11) Utay Hall (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top