Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Applications, Rates, & Policieskara_humphreys2022-03-10T13:05:27-06:00 APPLICATIONS, RATES, & POLICIES If you have housing business to conduct, this is the place to begin. We are delighted that you are considering living on campus at Texas A&M University. Whether you are a freshman, upperclassman, transfer student, married, students with children, veterans, or graduate student, on-campus housing has something to offer everyone. NOTE: All incoming freshmen must be admitted to Texas A&M University to be eligible to apply for on-campus housing. Rates Note the date at the top of the rates page to determine if the rates shown are for the current academic year or have been updated for the next academic year. Rents typically will change year to year but the current year’s rates will give you an estimate to help you budget. Also, please be aware that rates are subject to change. Applications Applications are based on the academic term, payment type (semester/monthly), and housing type (apartment or residence hall). To determine which application to complete, explore the many housing options you have when you live on campus then complete an application in myHousing Portal. Room assignments are based largely on priority date – which is defined as the date the housing application, including fee, is received – so apply to housing today! Procedures & Rules Rules are the policies that on campus residents agree to abide by while living in the heart of the Aggie experience. Procedures are explanation of the process that our department follows when we receive a request (i.e. room change, hall/apartment change, etc.). Payment Information Payment for housing will be added to your student account for pay by semester option residence halls and apartments. Pay by the month apartments will be paid via electronic check via myHousing Portal. Online payment by credit/debit card or electronic check is required as part of the application process. Below is the required application fee that will be requested when you complete your first application to live on campus. Description Cost Application Fee $75 Contracts You will find copies of the contract you sign with us to live in the residence halls or apartment. These are provided for your review prior to beginning your application. Sample Pay By the Semester Housing Contracts Residence Halls/Corps Housing/White Creek Apartments 2022-2023 Academic Year Sample Pay By the Month Apartment Contracts Gardens Apartments Contract Academic Years 2021-2026 Sample Summer Housing Contracts Residence Halls/Corps Housing/White Creek Apartments Summer 2022-2025 Apply for Housing When you are ready to apply for housing, myHousing Portal provides access to the online residence hall or apartment applications, allows you to search for a roommate, provides access to online room selection (when available, for students eligible for online room selection), and allows you to check the status of your application and assignment. You will need your NetID and password to access the portal. Do not have a NetID and password? Visit the Howdy Portal and click “Activate Your Account”. myHousing Portal PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top