Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Givingkara_humphreys2020-09-01T13:02:47-05:00 GIVE TO RESIDENCE LIFE The Department of Residence Life strives to keep living on campus an affordable option. With the costs of living on campus ranging from $1830-$4894 per semester (double occupancy), providing scholarships for housing assists students for whom housing is not covered by their scholarship program or other support. Growing these endowments, creates support annually and in perpetuity for students to live on campus and build that legacy. You can choose the endowment to support. Giving Commemoration Campaigns: Leave Your Mark(s) “Continue the Traditions”: Law-Puryear Commemoration Plaza Would you like to be remembered at Texas A&M? Would you like to have the opportunity to show others how living in one of the most spirited residence halls on campus had a positive impact on your life? If so, read on and see how you can be a visible part of Texas A&M by participating in the Puryear and Law Halls “Continue the Traditions” campaign! It has long been the belief of most Aggies that the real spirit of Texas A&M is ingrained in the student body and the traditions of this great University. Today, because of the support of individuals like you, traditions continue to be part of student life in the residence halls and on campus. [Personalized pavers or benches for the plaza are available.] “On Campus Aggies”: Crocker-Moore-McInnis Commemoration Crocker and Moore Halls, built in 1942, and McInnis Hall, built in 1964, came down in July 2011 and we are committed to commemorating them appropriately to live on in Aggie history and tradition. Many former residents have already expressed interest and support for the commemoration. Aggies have long believed that the real spirit of Texas A&M is ingrained in the student body and the traditions of this great University. Today, because of the support of individuals like you, traditions of On Campus Aggies continue to be part of student life in the residence halls and across the campus. You are invited to join the “On Campus Aggies” Fund campaign by participating in the ongoing commemoration of Crocker, Moore and McInnis. Please consider making a contribution to the campaign. [Personalized pavers for the Hullabaloo courtyard approximately where Crocker, Moore and McInnis stood and prints by Benjamin Knox of Crocker, Moore, McInnis and Legett are available and a portion of the profits are returned to the endowment.] Residential Housing Association (RHA) Hall Programming Fund These funds enhance the resources available for on-campus housing communities to provide programs, activities and opportunities for residents to enhance their living experiences. The Residence Hall Association Board of Directors (students) is responsible for the allotment of available funds annually to meet the requests of the individual community hall councils. Leadership Living Learning Community (L3C) Programming Fund The Leadership Living Learning Community (L3C) Programming Fund has been established to continue the activities that have been staples of the L3C student experience (fall retreat, academic field trips, international dinner, and performing arts/plays). In the past, these activities have been offered at no cost to the 60-90 freshmen students that participate in the Leadership Living Learning Community each year. This endowment is an effort to continue to provide these value-added experiences with the support of past participants. To give to the L3C Programming Fund, please visit https://give.am/SupportL3C. Scholarships Endowments Supporting Students Living On Campus Resident Advisor (RA) Scholarship This endowment supports an On-Campus Aggie serving as a Resident Adviser with a scholarship. Resident Advisors do not receive room or board as part of their compensation, but rather are paid hourly wages. So, scholarship support helps these students gain valuable experience, whatever their field, while serving their peers by helping to make the on-campus experience great. Ron Sasse Housing Scholarship The Sasse Endowment (established in 2012) funds scholarships for On-Campus Aggies, so that students can remain living on-campus, enjoying the value-added experience of community at Texas A&M. The endowment honors the legacy of Ron Sasse retired Director of Residence Life, who was involved with enhancing the success of on-campus students for over 33 years. The earnings from the endowment generate scholarship/rent support for Aggie students living on-campus. To give to the Ron Sasse Scholarship Endowment, please visit http://give.am/RonSasseEndowment. The M.J. Neeley Hall Scholarship Through an initial endowment by the namesake at the time of the hall’s opening (1975), Neeley Hall has a scholarship for a resident. Currently, one scholarship is available each semester residents of Neeley Hall. The criteria are: hall participation, involvement in campus activities and academic standing. Students must be in good standing (academic and conduct) and reside in Neeley Hall. Jerry Hajek III Endowed Memorial Scholarship The Jerry Hajek III Endowed Memorial Scholarship has been established by the Family & Friends of Jerry Hajek, III, an honorary resident of Hart Hall on the Texas A&M University campus and a student at the University of Houston at the time of his death (2013). Jerry exemplified all that an Aggie is, and was regularly involved in Hart Hall activities and with Hart Hall residents. These funds are to scholarships to full-time students in good standing, pursuing an undergraduate degree from Texas A&M University who live in Hart Hall during the term of the scholarship, exemplify the altruism and spirit of a Hart Hall resident and student of Texas A&M University, and have a financial need as determined by Scholarships & Financial Aid. Get in touch to give For more information, please contact Dr. Carol Binzer at 979.862.3158 or CarolB@reslife.tamu.edu. Contributions are tax-deductible as allowed by law. Your consideration and support are greatly appreciated. PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top