Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Living Off Campus Sub Navigation In This Section Rules & Regulations Living Off Campus On-Campus Housing Requirement Degree-seeking undergraduate students actively enrolled in courses at Brown University are required to have a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall for every semester of enrollment until semester level 07 unless they are on a study away or study abroad program approved by the Office of International Programs. Brown-RISD Dual Degree Students are required to have a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall at Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) during semesters 01 and 02 and at Brown during semesters 03 and 04. After semester 04, students may live in a housing assignment in an On-Campus Residence Hall at Brown or RISD or off-campus. The Office of Residential Life may grant exceptions to this policy upon request in academic year increments to: students living Locally with their spouse or legal domestic partner; students living Locally with their child(ren) or other dependent(s); Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Students; students living Locally with their parent(s) or legal guardian(s) at their permanent address; and students who will be 23 years old by the first day of fall semester classes. Undergraduate students eligible for an exception under these circumstances may request an exception from the Office of Residential Life by completing the Non-Resident Intent Form. This form must be completed each academic year. Students with disabilities may request reasonable modifications to this policy by contacting Student Accessibility Services at SAS@brown.edu or 401-863-9588. For full details on this policy, please refer to the On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy web page. Student Resources Fee Effective for the 2022 - 2023 academic year the Student Resources Fee will be assessed to all undergraduate students. The fee is used to fund offices, centers and programs that provide direct support and services to students. Previously, fees to fund offices, centers and programs that provide direct support and services to undergraduates were included in either room charges (for on-campus students) or a non-resident fee (for off-campus students). Beginning in Fiscal Year 2023, the fee to fund these areas will be labeled the Undergraduate Student Resources Fee. The non-resident fee, which funded these resources directly, will be eliminated, and room charges for on-campus students will be reduced by the corresponding dollar amount. The newly named Student Resources Fee for FY23 will be $974. Non-Resident Status Certain groups are eligible for non-resident status Commuters Students who live locally with their parent(s) or guardian(s), either 30 miles or 30 minutes from the University may apply for commuter status. Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) The Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Program is a small, highly competitive program ideal for students who interrupted or delayed their formal education due to family commitments, financial concerns, health issues, military service, employment opportunities, or simply a compelling need to explore other paths. The student status RUE will be confirmed with the Dean of the College. Students who are part of the RUE program are not required to reside in on-campus housing. Married Students Students who are married are not required to reside in on-campus housing. Confirmation of married status is required in the form of a copy of a marriage certificate and should be uploaded via the StarRez housing portal. Seniors Students who will have reached semester level 07 by the Fall semester will have satisfied the On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy and may live off-campus by registering their non-resident intent. Brown-RISD Dual Degree Years 3 - 5 BRDD students who will be semester level 05 by the Fall semester will have also satisfied the On-Campus Housing Requirement Policy and may live off-campus by registering their non-resident intent. Students 23 or Older Students who are or will turn 23 years of age before the first day of classes in the Fall semester may request a waiver of the on-campus housing requirement via this form. Cancelling Off-Campus Permission If a student receives permission to reside off campus, the permission is granted until a student graduates from the University or takes a leave of absence. In order for the Office of Residential Life to plan for the upcoming academic year, current non-residents must register their status each year to confirm their plans to live on or off campus. If a student wishes to return to on-campus housing and enter the housing selection process, they must notify the Office of Residential Life prior to Super Deadline Day by cancelling their non-resident status via the Non-Resident Intent Form. Frequently Asked Questions Where can I find the Non-Resident Intent Form? The Non-Resident Intent Form can be found within the Fall 2022 Housing Selection process in the StarRez Housing Portal. I've signed an off-campus lease. Will this factor into my eligibility for non-resident status? No. The Office of Residential Life strongly discourages students or their families from signing any lease without confirmation from our office that the exemption has been granted. The signing of a lease for off-campus housing is not justification for receiving off-campus approval, and the signing of a lease - and any resulting financial difficulties - will not result in non-resident status. Students covered by the On-Campus Housing Requirement policy are required to pay the on-campus housing charge on their student account. Is Brown affiliated with any housing co-ops? Brown University is not affiliated with any off-campus cooperative housing organization, including but not limited to PEACH (Providence East Association of Cooperative Housing) -- formerly known as BACH (Brown Association for Cooperative Housing) -- and NASCO (North American Students of Cooperation). Because properties maintained by off-campus cooperative housing organizations are considered off-campus housing, students should not make arrangements to live at these properties unless and until they become eligible for non-resident status and have received off-campus permission in writing from the Office of Residential Life. Resources Find Off-Campus Housing Get information about both Brown- and local landlord-owned properties available to students seeking off-campus housing. Visit Page Open details for Find Off-Campus Housing Guide to Living Off Campus Browse through a series of tips compiled by the Brown Real Estate & Auxiliary Housing Office. Visit Page Open details for Guide to Living Off Campus Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Living Off Campus Open details for Living Off Campus Bookmark this Page