Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Residential Life at Brown The residential experience at Brown reflects the vibrant, diverse community you'll find at the University. All first-year students — and 74 percent of all undergraduates — live on campus. Residential Life at Brown The residential experience at Brown reflects the vibrant, diverse community you'll find at the University. All first-year students — and 74 percent of all undergraduates — live on campus. The Residential Experience We know that learning happens in a developmental way. We structure our residential experience to meet students in those developmental moments. Our students are assigned housing based on class year. Our first year experience is a foundational piece for the learning and community conversations students will have in the sophomore, junior and senior years on campus. Not only does our curriculum for the residential experience flow from year to year, but also semester to semester. Our approach is interwoven between months and semesters to allow for a seamless transition between years and between residential communities. Living On Campus Being assigned a room in one of our residence halls is not the end of a student’s journey with Residential Life, it is the beginning. Visit Page Open details for Living On Campus Living Off Campus Undergraduate students must receive permission from the Office of Residential Life to live outside the residence halls. Visit Page Open details for Living Off Campus Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Residential Life at Brown Open details for Residential Life at Brown Bookmark this Page