Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Summer Housingkara_humphreys2022-04-26T10:21:25-05:00 POLICIES & HOW-TO INSTRUCTIONS Summer Housing During the summer, Texas A&M University offers safe, convenient, and affordable on-campus housing for all enrolled students at our on-campus White Creek Apartments. Enjoy the convenience of on-campus living and easy access to amenities and academic resources our campus has to offer. In order to live on campus, you must be enrolled at Texas A&M University – College Station. Step 1: Apply for Housing There are 3 different applications for summer housing depending on when you’d like to live on campus: Summer 1 Summer 1&2 – full summer Summer 2 Students in the Gateway program will need to apply for Summer 2 To apply for on-campus housing at Texas A&M – College Station, complete the Summer Housing Application on your Housing Portal. Provide specific roommate’s name and UIN (if you already know someone you want to live with), and sign the Housing Contract. If you’re an incoming, first-time on-campus student, there is a $75 non-refundable application fee and all other housing rates can be found here. Be sure to read and acknowledge the information about accommodations, related services, and insurance. Step 2: Receive Your Assignment Housing assignments are done by the Housing Assignments Office on a first-come, first-serve basis. You will be assigned in the order in which your application was completed. You will receive your assignment via email before the Summer terms start, which is typically the first week of May for anyone living on campus for Summer 1, and summer session 2 assignments will be emailed out in mid-June prior to the beginning of the semester. For students who are already living at White Creek Apartments for the Spring semester, our goal is to keep you in your same apartment for the summer sessions. Step 3: Complete Annual Housing Orientation and Schedule Move In Appointment Before you move in, you will need to complete an online Housing Orientation to familiarize yourself with the student handbook and on-campus housing policies. This orientation will become available to you prior to move in and notification of its availability will be sent to you via email and you’ll complete it on your myHousing Portal. Schedule Move-In Appointment To ensure everything is ready for your arrival, choose a day and time to move in at myHousing Portal after you complete the Annual Housing Orientation. Keep in mind that if you arrive before the published move-in dates you may be charged a daily fee for your early arrival. Step 4: Move-In We are excited that you will be living on-campus in College Station during the summer terms. Information about move-in, what to bring, what not to bring, rates, important dates, and parking maps are available on our Summer Move-In Information page. If you have any questions before you arrive on campus, please contact the appropriate office. We will see you in Aggieland! Step 5: Payment Payment for the summer will be posted to the student’s account by Student Business Services. << Back to Policies and How-To Instructions PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top