Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Tourskara_humphreys2022-05-23T09:06:56-05:00 TOURS Come take a tour of our on-campus housing and find out why thousands of students are taking advantage of this wonderful and life-changing opportunity each year. This is a great way to find out what living on campus is all about. Residence Life is dedicated to being the place where everyone wants to live – and we would love to show you why. In-person and virtual summer tours will take place from May 23rd – August 9th. No Tours on May 30, 2022, June 17, 2022 (no afternoon sessions), and July 4, 2022. Registration for summer tours is LIVE. Register for a LIVE Housing Presentation, hosted by a Residence Life Tour Guide. Have your questions answered in real time! Virtual tours are available on Mondays and Thursdays at 11:00 AM and 4:00 PM CST from May 23rd – August 9th. Plan Your Visit Howdy! We cannot wait to welcome you to campus! We suggest you get started by registering your visit and reserving a campus tour with the Appelt Aggieland Visitor’s Center. After you register your visit, we recommend reserving a Campus Walking tour through the Visitor’s Center! Here, you can also select to register for our Residence Life Housing tours. After you register, consider the best place to park near all the action by visiting our friends at Transportation Services. Maybe you have finances on your mind or admissions questions. We got you covered there too. All this planning, walking, and exploring got you hungry? Visit University Dining to learn about your options while on campus or the freshman required meal plan. Ok, now its time to find out more about where Aggies live. Get to know more about the on campus Aggie experience by checking out our tour options and schedule below. Tour Options Virtual Housing Presentation Register for a LIVE Housing Presentation, hosted by a Residence Life Tour Guide. Have your questions answered in real time! Virtual tours are available on Mondays at 11:00 AM, 4:00 PM, and 7:00 PM CST from September 6th – December 13th. Virtual Tours Learn about living at the heart of the Aggie experience on this virtual tour of residences, amenities, dining options, and life on campus. If you are unable to come to campus for a tour of campus, we can bring the residence halls and apartments to you through our Virtual Tours on the Interactive Campus Map. Walking Tours Register for an IN-PERSON Residence Life walking tour here. Our student Tour Guides provide walking tours of our residence hall and apartment communities to potential Aggies, their families, and visitors. Each tour will allow you to view individual rooms and community amenities. Tours are accessible to wheelchair users. Private Tours If you are planning to bring a large group to campus (11+ people), you can submit a request to schedule a private tour here. We ask that you contact us about scheduling a private tour at least two weeks in advance. Small groups or individuals are asked to attend one of our regularly scheduled tours before scheduling a private tour. Private tours are only available for schools or organizations. Additionally, private tours are not available on Sundays, during finals, or when the University is closed between semesters or holidays. Please consult the Academic Calendar for details. Residence Hall Tours The on-campus community is organized in residential areas of campus. Thus, some of our halls vary by geographic area. Please plan your residence hall tour route based on the hall styles you would like to view. Northside What’s on the tour? Visitors will see a double suite in Hullabaloo, a Balcony (Keathley), a Modular (Lechner), and a Ramp (Walton) style hall. The Corridor style (Moses) is currently under renovation and will not be available for viewing summer 2022 (all Corridor style renovations will be complete by fall 2022 move-in). You may also choose to take our virtual tour, which previews the same buildings and provides the walking path outlined above. Estimated Time Tours will last approximately 50 minutes. Parking Meet at Hullabaloo Hall’s Tour Desk in Building A of the hall. Please park in the University Center Parking Garage and walk approximately 15 minutes to Hullabaloo. The 30-minute parking around Hullabaloo is not enough time to complete your tour. Southside What’s on the tour? Visitors that join us on the Southside Residence Hall tour will see the Commons Lobby, dining options, and Mosher Hall (Commons Style). You may also choose to take our virtual tour, which previews the same buildings and provides the walking path outlined above. Estimated Time Tours will last approximately 30 minutes. Parking Meet at the Common’s Lobby Tour Desk which connects the four Commons Halls. Please park in the University Center Parking Garage or Central Campus Garage and walk approximately 5-10 minutes to the Commons. The 30-minute parking around the Commons Complex or on Mosher Lane is not enough time to complete your tour. Apartment Tours There are two on-campus apartment communities available exclusively to Texas A&M University students. The Gardens Apartments house graduate, married, families, international, veterans, and students who at least 21 years old when making assignments. White Creek Apartments house predominately undergraduate students. Please plan your apartment tour of the option that will best fit your needs. The Gardens Apartments What’s on the tour? Visitors will be able to see an assortment of apartment styles and floor plans available at The Gardens Apartments as requested when the tour begins. You may also choose to take our virtual tour, which previews the community amenities and provides a basic walking path of the tour. Estimated Time Approximately 30 minutes. Parking Meet at the Gardens Apartments Community Center. There is 30 minute parking available at The Gardens Community Center. White Creek Apartments What’s on the tour? Visitors will see a 2-bedroom/1-bathroom apartment as well as the White Creek Community Center. Tour guides will also highlight community amenities. Take a virtual look at what this apartment community has to offer residents. Estimated Time Tours will take approximately 30 minutes. Parking Meet us at the White Creek Community Center (677 West Campus Boulevard, College Station, TX 77840)! Visitors can park on the main Texas A&M University campus and park in a public garage (i.e. University Center, Central Campus, etc.) and take Aggie Spirit Bus #3 to White Creek stop #2. Pay-by-the-hour parking is also available across the street from White Creek Community Center in Lot 122A located east of the White Creek Apartments complex. Northside Residence Hall Tours May 23rd – August 9th; Monday through Friday Tours leave every hour on the hour from 9 am – 4pm with the last tour leaving at 3pm. Tours leave from the Tour Desk in Hullabaloo Hall, located across the courtyard from the Starbucks. Register for an on-campus housing tour (excludes The Gardens Apts). Call 979.845.0557 for more information. Southside Residence Hall Tours May 23rd – August 9th; Monday through Friday Tours leave every 30 minutes from 9 am – 4pm with the last tour leaving at 3:30pm. Tours leave from The Commons. Register for an on-campus housing tour (excludes The Gardens Apts). Call 979.845.0557 for more information. White Creek Apartment Tours May 23rd – August 9th; Monday through Friday Tours leave every hour on the hour from 12pm – 4pm with the last tour leaving at 3pm. Tours leave from The White Creek Community Center, located ACROSS the street from the White Creek Apartments. Register for an on-campus housing tour (excludes The Gardens Apts). Call 979.845.0557 for more information. Contact Us Location: Hullabaloo Hall, Suite 104 Phone: 979.845.0557 Email: tours@reslife.tamu.edu PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top