Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Commencement and Reunion Housing Commencement and Reunion Weekend will be held this year from Friday, May 27, 2022 through Sunday, May 29, 2022. Commencement We look forward to welcoming you on campus to celebrate the Classes of 2020 and 2022. learn more Reunion Weekend Brown welcomes you back! Come reconnect with Brown, fellow Brunonians, and your family. learn more Commencement and Reunion Guests On-campus housing reservations for Commencement Guests (friends and family of the members of the Classes of 2020 and 2022) and Reunion Guests will open on Monday, April 18, 2022 and close at 11:59pm (ET) on Sunday, May 8, 2022. The housing reservation system is available through this link. Housing is available beginning on Friday, May 27 at 3:00 pm through Monday, May 30 at noon. Please note, there is a two night minimum for on-campus housing. We are unable to accommodate requests outside of these dates and times. After May 8, housing requests must be made on site. On-site reservations are provided on a first-come, first-served basis. To make an on-site reservation, guests may come to the Wayland Lounge beginning at 3pm on Friday, May 27, 2022. Please note that there will be no cancellations or refunds after Friday, May 13, 2022. Pricing The standard nightly per bed rate is $90. Please note, there is a two night minimum for on-campus housing. Instructions Instructions for the reservation and payment process can be found via these downloadable instructions. If you have additional questions, please email res_life@brown.edu. Campus Maps and Navigation Tools Campus Maps Website - A listing of several helpful maps of campus, including a Visitor Map, Accessibility Map, and Parking Map, which you can download or print. Interactive Campus Map - An interactive map of campus that shows pictures of buildings, as well as the history behind each building. Google Maps - A helpful tool you can use to determine the walking or driving distance between campus buildings, as well as the best path from Point A to Point B. Health and Safety Protocols For information on how Brown’s health and safety protocols apply to visitors and guests for Commencement and Reunion Weekend, please visit the Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests page on the Healthy Brown website. Room Information There are singles, doubles, triples, and quad rooms available, as well as suites and apartments. All beds are Twin XL. You’ll likely share bathroom facilities and climb stairs. You’ll get basic essentials such as bed linens, a pillow, and towels. Rooms are smoke-free and not air-conditioned. Need an extra blanket, towels, hangers, alarm clock, hand mirror, small fan, or other amenities? You’ll need to bring those from home. Class of 2020 Availability On-campus housing for the Class of 2020 will be available beginning on Friday, May 27 at 3:00 pm through Monday, May 30 at noon. Please note, there is a two night minimum for on-campus housing. We are unable to accommodate requests outside of these dates and times. How to Book Your Room Housing registration for the Class of 2020 closed on Thursday, April 14 at 11:59pm ET. Contact Us If you have any questions, please e-mail us at Res_Life@brown.edu Commencement We look forward to welcoming you on campus to celebrate the Classes of 2020 and 2022. learn more Reunion Weekend Brown welcomes you back! Come reconnect with Brown, fellow Brunonians, and your family. learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Commencement and Reunion Housing Open details for Commencement and Reunion Housing Bookmark this Page