Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Living Learning Communitieskara_humphreys2019-12-03T13:21:45-06:00 LIVING LEARNING COMMUNITIES Living Learning Communities (LLCs) are residential clusterings of students who share academic or social and cultural interests. Texas A&M University provides residential experiences commonly referred to as Living Learning Communities (LLCs). Residents in our LLCs benefit from additional resources, support, and enhanced activities centered around a specific focus in order to elevate their Aggie experience. The philosophy underlying living learning communities is grounded in the belief that learning is an active and dynamic process that occurs both inside and outside the classroom and is a process in which students use a number of frameworks and modalities to learn. On-campus living spaces provide an ideal learning environment as most students spend more collective hours in their living environment than any other location on campus, including the classroom. Living Learning Communities are available in four different residential types: Academic Residential Experience Districts, Academic Living Learning Communities, Enhanced Living Learning Communities, and Themed or Interest Group Housing. These experiences are lived through becoming an active member of a unique and transformative community, where students seeking similar academic goals or personal interests can live, learn, and play together. Explore our communities by visiting their pages on the right. [Click image for text description of image.] Types of LLCs Academic Residential Experience Districts Academic Residential Experience Districts are communities where students live with other students from their same academic discipline. These robust living-learning spaces provide a supportive, vibrant environment designed to help students succeed at the university. Our Academic Residential Experience Districts foster a comprehensive experience that combines community activities with enhanced academic support. In your residential district, you will live with students who share the same major, develop enhanced study skills, and engage in university opportunities and experiences that will contribute to your personal and professional growth and development. Academic Residential Experience Districts include professional and student staff from the Department of Residence Life as well as committed members from your academic college. Plus, there are faculty that are committed to the success of the program and you. What you can expect: An academic course requirement with others in the LLC Programs relevant to your major/discipline Academic advising and other services in the hall College faculty and staff around the hall Study spaces or specialized spaces that support the community Live together with other students in the program Academic LLCs Academic Living Learning Communities (ALLCs) are residential programs which allow students who share similar academic interests, or an interest in a specific topical area, to live together in designated on-campus residence. Academic LLCs require students to attend classes with the same group of peers in their residence hall, and some of the programs have faculty and academic advisers that program or provide services in the same residence hall. ALLCs also offer opportunities for students to participate in academic/extra-curricular programming designed specifically for them. What you can expect: An academic course requirement Committed faculty who aid in program administration and teach the program class Programs/events related to the community’s focus Staff around the hall Live together with other students in the program Enhanced LLCs Enhanced Living Learning Communities (ELLCs) are residential programs which allow students who share a connection based on a sponsored scholarship program to participate in programming designed to aid in their college transition and success. Students must be awarded a scholarship by a program who has an affiliated Living Learning Community. Examples include but are not limited to: Terry, Brown, etc. What you can expect: An academic course requirement Committed staff from the scholarship program Programs/events related to the community’s focus May or may not live together with other students in the program Themed or Interest Group Housing Themed or Interest Group Housing provide a unique atmosphere for residents who share common interests and cultivate an environment that supports personal growth through academic and social programming. What you can expect: Committed Residence Life Staff and the collaborating unit Programs/events related to the community’s focus Live together with other students in the program Benefits Explained One or More Buildings Most LLCs take up a floor or wing of a hall. Academic Residential Experience Districts are different because they take up one or more buildings. This makes districts larger in their size and scope they offer residents. Districts are able to dedicate specialized resources and spaces that support the focus of the community. Required Class Research suggests that LLC students who participate in required shared courses are more engaged with their academics and satisfied with their college experience. Although courses available for communities vary each year, LLCs with linked courses provide students the opportunity to co-enroll in a course affiliated with the theme of their community. Collaborating Faculty A hallmark of a successful LLC is faculty who are committed to student and the community’s success. Faculty are leading scholars and professionals in their fields of practice, and student learning is their priority. Live Together in a Dedicated Area Living together in a dedicated space with other students in the program enables the residential community to form a stronger connection. Not all of our LLCs require students to live in the same hall, apartment, floor, or building. Common Topic Focus All LLCs are intentional, inclusive communities formed around common themes or college programs where students have an opportunity to live and learn together. Collaborating Staff All of the LLCs are partnerships that the Department of Residence Life forms with other departments, offices, colleges, etc. In order for an LLC to be successful, the partnership requires dedicated staff from the collaborating unit. These staff aid in creating a seamless and integrated experience for students. Committed Residence Life Staff The Department of Residence Life commits professional staff to ensure high-quality residential experiences for students. Students in LLCs can expect to interact with Resident Advisors (RAs) and in-hall professional staff. The Department has a dedicated Academic Initiatives area whose staff support the LLCs. Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Honoring Excellence Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Start Collaborating Type of Living Learning Communities (Text Version) Amenities Add-Ons Landline Telephone Service Action Form Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Accommodations/Accessibility Options Laundry Facilities Recreation & Game Rooms Television Service Get Involved Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs AALANA (African American, Latinx American, Native/Islander Pacific American) Aggie ACHIEVE Engineering Village @ The Commons FACTION ( Freshmen in ACTION) Geosciences Honors (University Honors Program) IDEAS (Information Investigation) Leadership (L3C) Spectrum (Neuro Diversity) Startup (Entrepreneurship) Sustainability THRIVE: Wellness Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Custodial & Maintenance Services Evaluation Structural Pest Control Customer Evaluation Health, Safety, & Security Community-Oriented Police Services (C.O.P.S.) Sustainability E-Waste Bins Green Dorm Certification Sustainability Awards Trex Plastics Challenge U-Challenge U-Challenge Application PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top