Skip to content 888.451.3896|housing@tamu.edu FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagram Search for: Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Home About Applications, Rates, & Policies How-To’s & Procedures myHousing Portal Rates Rules Housing Options On-Campus Apartments The Gardens White Creek Corps Housing Spence (Dorm 1) Kiest (Dorm 2) Briggs (Dorm 3) Fountain (Dorm 4) Gainer (Dorm 5) Lacy (Dorm 6) Leonard (Dorm 7) Harrell (Dorm 8) Whiteley (Dorm 9) White (Dorm 10) Harrington (Dorm 11) Utay (Dorm 12) Residence Halls Appelt Hall Aston Hall Clements Hall Davis-Gary Hall Dunn Hall Eppright Hall Fowler Hall Haas Hall Hart Hall Hobby Hall Hughes Hall Hullabaloo Hall Keathley Hall Krueger Hall Lechner Hall Legett Hall McFadden Hall Moses Hall Mosher Hall Neeley Hall Rudder Hall Schuhmacher Hall Underwood Hall Walton Hall Wells Hall Near-Campus Apartments Living on Campus Academics in Residence Academic Events & Programs Academic Services Academic Spaces Campus Collaborators Amenities Add-Ons Beds & Lofts Mail & Shipping Services Events Get Involved Health, Safety, & Security Living Learning Communities Reasons to Join Available LLCs Apply Maintenance, Pest Control, & Mold Move-In Move-Out and Breaks Summer Move-In Sustainability Conference & Guests Adult & Youth Conferences Aggie Hostel Faculty / Staff / Post Doc Apartments Guest Apartments Meeting Reservations & Event Coordination New Student Conference Overnight Accommodations Student Organization Hosting Process Tours Contact Staff Directory Search for: Move-Out and Breakskara_humphreys2021-12-15T16:42:12-06:00 MOVE-OUT & BREAKS Ever wonder how 10,000 – 12,000 students manage to leave, return, and move-out of on-campus housing? Well, to be honest, it’s not easy! The purpose of this page is to give you — whether a student, parent, or administrator — a better understanding of the annual transition periods and their processes. For a calendar of move-out and closing dates, refer to the Closing Dates section below. Move-Out and Closing If you will not be returning to Residence Life, we wish you well. We hope you have enjoyed your time with us and that you will take many wonderful memories with you as you depart. Please use the following guidelines as you prepare to move-out. Additional information about move-out and proper cleaning procedures can be found in the resident handbook. Need to stay later or after closing? Learn about Extended Stay by going to How-To’s & Procedures and choosing the Extended Stay toggle. Extended stays are not guaranteed and may require a fee. Closing Dates Dec 17 Sat all-day Halls Close (Residence Life and ... Halls Close (Residence Life and ... Dec 17 all-day For graduating students only. All other students should be checked out 24 ours after their last exam. Residents of White Creek Apartments and Gardens Apartments are not required to leave at the Winter Break. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Residence Halls Apartments Corps of Cadets Residence Halls Residence Halls close over the winter break and at the conclusion of the spring semester. Information below is not exhaustive related to move-out information. Residents are strongly encouraged to attend closing meetings hosted by their Resident Advisors in order to avoid improper checkout and other fees. December Closing If you are returning in January: Follow the details on the Winter Break Departure Guidelines given to you at your closing floor meeting. If you did not attend, you need to talk to your RA. Make sure all tasks are completed and sign the form. Tape the completed form to the back of your room door. Main things needing to be completed: Room clean Trash taken out If you have a vacant space in your room, make sure all is clear for incoming residents Unplug ALL items If you are NOT returning in January: You have 2 options: You can follow the checkout form or you can checkout with a staff member. Talk to your RA for more information and to find out what you need to do. You must return your keys regardless of your checkout process. Make sure you have cancelled your housing contract with the Housing Assignments Office, by going online to cancel under the residence forms. If you are unable to do so send an email with your name, UIN, last date in room, and reason for cancellation to housing@tamu.edu. Questions? Contact an Resident Advisor (RA) or your Community Director/Graduate Hall Director! Good luck on your finals! May Closing & Summer Closing Everyone has to checkout in May, even if you are going to Summer School Housing. We have moved to Express Checkout for all residence halls. Express Checkout With Express Checkout, you are taking on all responsibility for completing the items listed on the Express Checkout form and any damages or billing you might incur. This method allows for more flexibility on your time, but more responsibility placed in your own hands. During the closing floor meetings, you can pick up one of the Express Checkout forms from your RA. You will still need to get a key envelope for your keys to make sure we have the proper information needed to process the key back into our system. You can drop off your key at any time of the day or night in the key drop-box located right outside of your hall office. You must attend the closing floor meeting to receive all of the information you need about closing. If you are unable to attend, please contact your Resident Advisor or your Graduate Hall Director/Community Director. Think you are ready to check out? Go over this list to be sure! Doors – Cleaned, free of decals, door number intact and in good condition Floors – Cleaned, mopped, and dry/vacuumed Medicine Cabinet – Clean, door open Windows – Window sill(s) clean, screens fastened and intact, stickers/writing removed, locked Blinds – Clean, down, slats open – except ground floor, no knots in the cord Beds – Reassembled, mattress flat, pulled away from the wall 6 inches Desk – Clean, drawers empty and open, stickers removed Dresser – Clean, drawers 1/3 open Furniture* – UN-STACKED and pulled 6 inches away from wall, bunk beds assembled *All furniture in corridor style halls should be moved away from the AC/heater unit (Davis-Gary, Moses) Walls – Clean, tape/putty/double-stick pads/stickers removed, writing/drawings removed Bathroom – Clean and all items removed Refrigerator (MicroChill) – Defrosted, cleaned, dry, doors open and left in the room (if rented) Thermostat – Set at 76 degrees and fan at low speed (if applicable) Closet Doors – Cleaned, properly hung Apartments General Information The University Apartments do not close and are open to students year-round. Move-out is based on the term and length of your contract. White Creek Apartments Checkout Deadlines Residents must schedule a checkout appointment and vacate the apartment or complete Express Checkout (see below). Checkout appointments need to be scheduled at least 72 hours prior to the end of their contract. Checkout Appointments Login to myHousing Portal to schedule your checkout appointment. Residents will select the day they want to checkout and a specific 30-minute time slot on that day. Resident must be in the apartment at the time of their scheduled appointment. All of their personal belongings removed and apartment cleaned. If resident is not ready for checkout at the appointment time, they will need to go to the White Creek Apartments office during normal business hours to reschedule their appointment. Express Checkout Residents doing an Express Checkout must remove all of their belongings and clean the apartment prior to leaving. Completely fill out the envelope before dropping the key in the drop box. Residents may pick up envelopes near the key drop box or in the office during normal business hours. Key drop box is located in the main lobby of the White Creek Activity Center, near the restrooms. As a reminder, if you do an Express Checkout you are unable to appeal any charges for damages or additional cleaning. Gardens Apartments Checkout Deadline Residents must schedule a checkout appointment and vacate the apartment or complete Express Checkout (see below). Checkout appointments need to be scheduled at least 72 hours prior to the end of their contract. Checkout Appointments Login to myHousing Portal to schedule your checkout appointment. Residents will select the day they want to checkout and a specific 30-minute time slot on that day. Resident must be in the apartment at the time of their scheduled appointment. All of their personal belongings removed and apartment cleaned. If resident is not ready for checkout at the appointment time, they will need to go to the Gardens Apartments office during normal business hours to reschedule their appointment. Express Checkout Residents doing an Express Checkout must remove all of their belongings and clean the apartment prior to leaving. Completely fill out the envelope before dropping the key in the drop box. Residents may pick up envelopes near the key drop box or in the office during normal business hours. Key drop box is located near the Gardens Community Center entrance by the Game Room. As a reminder, if you do an Express Checkout you are unable to appeal any charges for damages or additional cleaning. Corps of Cadets General Information At all times during the checkout period, cadets are responsible for keeping hallways, vending machine rooms, dorm perimeters, and all grounds on the Quad free from discarded personal belongings and trash. This responsibility includes: Placing all small room trash in hallway trash cans (and requesting additional bags if those cans are full). Taking all unwanted items including but not limited to lumber, cinderblocks, carpet, personal furniture and other large items directly to the dumpster(s) provided. Moving all personal belongings directly from the room to vehicles (i.e., boxes, personal furniture, etc., will not be stacked in the hall). Failure to follow these guidelines will result in charges for the individual(s) or group involved. If the individuals cannot be determined, a group billing for the unit, staff, or building will be processed. Pre-Checkout Process Sign-up for a pre-checkout inspection time with your Corps Housing Officer Carpet must be taken up and rolled; carpet cannot be left in the room after checking out; carpet cannot be placed in common areas, especially the hallway All room furniture is accounted for or you will be assessed Room is returned to the standard room configuration Hallway in vicinity of room must be clear Complete pre-checkout inspection with your Corps Housing Officer no later than the date instructed Proper Checkout Process Your Corps Housing Officer has complete authority to conduct all aspects of checkout. All cadets must comply with the directives of their Corps Housing Officer. Properly checking out of your room includes: (1) Returning your room to the standard room configuration; (2) Having your room inspected; (3) Signing your inventory card and; (4) Returning your room key. Sign-up for a final checkout inspection time with your Commander/Housing Officer Doors & mirrors – clean, free of decals/stickers, tape, etc. Carpet – must be completely removed from room Any and all carpet remaining in any room after the checkout deadline will be discarded and the resident(s) of the room will be charged $25.00 for failure to clear as well as a $17.95 per hour labor fee (1 hour minimum) Room returned to the standard room configuration within Floors – clean and mopped dry Windows – clean, closed, locked, all decals removed Blinds – cleaned, open, blinds down Chairs – placed upside down on beds Walls – clean; posters, putty, tape, etc. removed; nail holes spackled and painted Heater/Air Conditioner – turned on, set to low cool Complete other tasks as assigned by your dorm Corps Housing Officer Complete final checkout inspection with your Corps Housing Officer. Your room must be in the condition listed on the inventory card Lock your room and return your room key to your Corps Housing Officer. Failure to return your key will result in a $100.00 lock-change charge. Return any other keys you have signed for. Sign your inventory card. Failure to sign the inventory card will result in a $25.00 administrative charge Parking Procedures Temporary one-hour loading and unloading zones will be established in close proximity to the residence halls and apartments so that students may transfer their belongings between their building and vehicle with minimal inconvenience. | View Transportation Services Move-Out Procedures & Maps Additional Information University Breaks & Holidays Texas A&M University has three major breaks for students: Thanksgiving Break, Winter Break, and Spring Break. Thanksgiving Break & Spring Break are approximately one week in duration and all housing communities remain open on campus. We do suggest, however, if you are leaving over these breaks to: Unplug appliances Lock windows and doors Remove trash & recycling Turn off heaters and lights Refer to additional break and move-out instructions provided by staff Winter Break occurs between the Fall and Spring semester and is four to five weeks in duration. During this time, the Residence Halls and Corps Halls on campus close. White Creek and the Gardens Apartments do not close to residents. Please review the Academic Calendar for up-to-date holiday and break dates. If you are staying on campus during a break, please be mindful of any changes to University Dining operating hours during these times. Donations, Trash, & Recycling Residence Life strongly supports sustainability. So, as you are preparing to move out at the end of the Spring semester, we are asking that you Donate… Don’t Dump! We have partnered with Goodwill Industries and The 12th Can, a student-run food pantry,who are providing trailers, trucks, and bins in convenient on-campus drop-off locations so you can donate unwanted non-perishable food items, clothing, and other household items rather than adding them to the landfill. More information, including on-campus drop-off locations, is available at Donate… Don’t Dump! PROSPECTIVE RESIDENTS Apply for Housing Academics in Residence Living Learning Communities Rates Tours Transportation & Parking Dining CURRENT RESIDENTS Community Learning Centers Hours Game Room Hours Lock-Outs Mail & Shipping Services Work Orders RECENT TWEETS Tweets by TAMUResLife important dates May 31 Tue all-day Classes Begin Classes Begin May 31 all-day Summer Session I all-day End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... End of 9.5 Month Lease (Gardens ... May 31 all-day End of 9.5 Month Leases for The Gardens Apartments Jul 4 Mon all-day Independence Day Independence Day Jul 4 all-day University Holiday Jul 6 Wed all-day Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Halls & White Creek Apartments Open Jul 6 all-day Summer Session II all-day Residence Halls and White Creek ... Residence Halls and White Creek ... Jul 6 all-day Residents who will be attending Sumer Session II and remaining on-campus, do not move out at the end of summer session I. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Department of Residence Life, Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University - College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Privacy & Security Statement - Give to Residence Life - Employment - Webmaster Page load link Go to Top