Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Program Houses Program Houses foster a sense of community by bringing people of common interests to a common living environment, with the implicit understanding that said common environment is essential to the purpose and functioning of the house. Language and Cultural Houses give students the opportunity to speak a foreign language and to learn about other cultures. Theme Houses are formed around an issue or activity in which the residents have a common interest. Program Houses enrich not only their members but also the Brown Community. The policies for formation and maintenance of Program Houses are defined by the Program House Guidelines. Among other activities, Program Houses organize cultural events, throw theme parties, and volunteer their time in the Providence community. Many students have their most memorable experiences at Brown during their years in a Program House. How to Join a Program House The selection process varies somewhat between houses. Program Houses organize a procedure called recruitment which begins in late January. All hold information sessions; some houses require interviews. Regardless of which Program House you decide to join, your choice must be finalized by Super Deadline Day. Moreover, your decision is final and binding - once you have completed a bid acceptance form, you will not be permitted to participate in the Residential Life housing selection process. Program Houses are a positive alternative to hall living; and all are encouraged to consider this option strongly. Currently Recognized Program Houses Asian/Asian American House Located in Buxton House, Asian Asian-American (AAA) House nurtures a community space for Brown students to discuss all subjects related to the Asian-American Pacific Islander (AAPI) identity and belonging. We aim to revise stereotypes of the AAPI identity around the Brown campus and beyond and to dispel the myth of a pan-Asian monolithic identity, while empowering those typically excluded from the conversation: trans, queer, low income, South, and Southeast Asians. Through discussions, social events, and other community-oriented events, we hope to build solidarity amongst the AAPI community and to extend solidarity to other communities of color. Casa Machado Bienvenidos a La Casa Hispánica, the house with more flavor than any other place at Brown! We are a community made up of sophomores through seniors with an interest in the Spanish language and Hispanic culture. Members are encouraged to speak Spanish with each other. Hispanic House residents participate in and help organize activities such as study breaks, Sabores, Tertulias, ciclos de cine (themed movie screenings), community service projects, and our notorious dance parties. We encourage members of the Brown community to come to our events to meet new people and practice their Spanish with us (regardless of proficiency)! Environmental Houses West House and North House are the environmental program houses at Brown and its residents are a cheerful mix of people committed to environmentalism, social activism and the arts. At any given moment, the houses are bustling with activity and you can always find people cooking food, making tea, playing music and discussing how to bring change to the world. Unlike dormitories, the houses are small communities of 14 (West House) and 12 (North House) residents. This provides the residents with a space where it is comfortable to develop new relationships with one another and to discover one's self while having a blast. Located on the corner of Brown and Meeting streets (West House) and Brown and Cushing streets (North House), the houses are small and cozy with balconies, living rooms and gardens French House Situated in one of the most beautiful houses on campus, French House is a community of Brown students interested in the language and culture of the French-speaking world. House activities open to the Brown community consist of parties, "pain et fromage" gatherings, film screenings, and cultural events. In-house activities include study breaks and optional co-ops. Each member helps to make French House a community by taking an active part in house management. All Machado house residents have access to kitchens, an elegant dining room, a game room, several lounges, a piano, and a beautiful terrace and yard. If you are interested in the French language and its related cultures and want to live in an intimate, friendly atmosphere, then French House is a great opportunity to enrich your college experience. A conversational level of French is helpful but not required. Harambee House Harambee House serves as a community space centered on the issues and concerns of the Black community at Brown. Meaning "togetherness" in Swahili, Harambee seeks to create an environment where we encourage and celebrate the people and culture of the African Diaspora. Our house serves as an important residential housing option for Black students, as a meeting space for Black Student Organizations, and as a communal space to study, work, and develop bonds within the community. The house imbues students with knowledge and experiences that create a sense of cultural pride and understanding that they can take with them in their various co-curricular pursuits at Brown. Our residents and community members help create and contribute to a positive self-defining image of the Black citizen of the world. Latinx House The Latinx House aims to serve as a resource for issues that affect the Latinx community at Brown and elsewhere through hosting political, social educational, and community-oriented events. This house will serve to strengthen and develop the Latinx community by serving as a safe-space in which we celebrate the commonalities and differences that exist within and across Latinidad. Our house will be both home and a classroom, a vibrant community where the exchange of ideas will be vital to our intellectual, cultural, and social growth. This house will be centered on the Latinx identity which would be inclusive of all ethnic, racial, national, and cultural backgrounds regardless of language. St. Anthony Hall St. Anthony Hall is a national, coed literary fraternity located in King House at the corner of Hope and Benevolent Streets. As a literary society, St. Anthony Hall values curiosity, passion, creativity, and understanding as tools used to learn and build a community of friends, both inside and outside the house. A national organization, this community extends down the East Coast to chapters at a number of colleges and universities. Members have a large variety of academic and nonacademic interests ranging from arts to hard sciences, and covering almost everything in between. Despite the name, St. Anthony Hall is not associated with any religious organizations. Technology House Technology House is located in the west end of Harkness House on Patriots' Court. Tech House offers a welcoming and supportive community that will assist you in your pursuits. Whether its building trebuchets, playing board games, or whatever your interests may be, others in our community will likely share your enthusiasm. We pride ourselves on our rich, on-going history of projects and events, including SciLi Tetris and Javaspook (our annual Halloween party). Members enjoy access to our in-house server and their very own Tech House email address, as well as our various common spaces, including a well-equipped kitchen, a workspace for house projects, a library and multiple lounges. Anyone interested is welcome; for more information, please visit techhouse.org. Womxn's Collective The Brown Womxn’s Collective (BWC) was created to serve as a space for social, academic, and anything-Brown-related interaction centered around relationships among womxn on campus. We started as a group of women who wanted to prioritize diversity, inclusivity, and accessibility in our lives as Brown students and who wanted to find and make friends who value the same. As such, BWC seeks to foster a gender-inclusive space that provides womxn with the opportunity to build meaningful connections with each other through community-building activities, community service, a mentorship program, social events, and workshops. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Houses Open details for Program Houses Bookmark this Page