Skip to Main Content Brown University Residential Life Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing Search Residential Life Community Living We believe that the experience students receive within the residence hall is integral to their academic, social, intellectual, and personal growth and success. Breadcrumb Home Living On Campus Sub Navigation In This Section Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Common Areas Keys & Building Access Maintenance & Custodial Residence Hall Service Rooms Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Community Living We believe that the experience students receive within the residence hall is integral to their academic, social, intellectual, and personal growth and success. Student life in the residence hall is not separate from the academic mission of the University, but rather supportive of students' total development. Within the mission of our work as Residential Life, we strive to promote core values that encompass what we hope students will gain through living and learning in our Residence Halls. Brown's residence halls include 49 buildings that total approximately 1.6 million square feet. The oldest was built in 1822 and the newest in 2012. The Main Green is no more than a five to ten-minute walk from any first-year residence hall. All residence halls are smoke-free. Residence halls at Brown are coed, which means that men and women are housed on the same floor in most instances. Residence Hall Common Areas Lounges and kitchens are well-used and important parts of Brown's residence halls. Visit Page Open details for Residence Hall Common Areas Residence Hall Keys and Building Access Learn about how to get into your building, key duplication, roof access, lockouts and lock changes. Visit Page Open details for Residence Hall Keys and Building Access Residence Hall Maintenance and Custodial Learn about routine cleaning, repairs, pest control, and making changes to your residence hall or room. Visit Page Open details for Residence Hall Maintenance and Custodial How Do I...? Get Mail Your mailing address will be your box number at Brown. All actively-enrolled undergraduate students, whether living on campus or off campus, are required to maintain a mailbox at the University mailroom in Page Robinson Hall. Students will retain the same assigned mailbox for the duration of their undergraduate studies, provided they do not separate from the University (e.g., study away or take a leave of absence). For more information regarding policies and correct formats for postal mail and packages, visit Brown University Mail Services. Do Laundry Laundry machines are available in the residence halls for student use. You may swipe your Brown ID Card to pay for the washers and dryers. You may add money to your Brown ID through the Bear Bucks website. For more information on the use of your card, please contact the Brown Card Office (401-863-2273). You will need to bring laundry supplies (hamper, detergent, softener, dryer sheets, etc.) if you decide to do your own laundry. Brown Student Agencies also offers a laundry service. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Residential Peer Leaders Residential Council Contacts & Resources Community Coordinators Housing Options Residence Halls Find On-Campus Housing Living Off Campus Housing Accommodations and Requests Process Living On Campus Moving In/Moving Out Your Room Community Living Residential Life Policies and Rules Safety & Security Accessibility Living Off Campus Rules & Regulations Commencement and Reunion Housing This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Community Living Open details for Community Living Bookmark this Page