You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul UniversityDePaul UniversityNewsroomNewsroom DePaul Shortcuts Newsroom Contact Us News Find an Expert Emergency Info For the Media For Faculty & Staff Recent Contact Us News Find an Expert Emergency Info For the Media For Faculty & Staff DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Contact Us Subscribe News Press Releases #DePaul in the News Multimedia Archives Find an Expert Emergency Info For the Media For Faculty & Staff About OPRC Become a Media Expert Editorial Style Guide Graphic Identity Standards Media Training Newsline Visual Services Main Content DePaul Newsroom amplifies news of faculty expertise. DePaul Newsroom shares student and faculty research. Journalists rely on DePaul faculty experts to offer insight on the news of the day. Press Releases Dr. Robert L. Manuel Named as 13th President of DePaul University The Rev. John T. Richardson, C.M., 9th president of DePaul University, passes away at 98 Transformative gift renames College of Computing and Digital Media New data reveals the giving patterns underlying the growth of donor-advised funds Read More #DePaul in the NEWS The Rev. John T. Richardson, DePaul University's 9th president, dies at 98 CBS2 Chicago | The Rev. John T. Richardson Video game designer and wife give DePaul its largest donation ever for College of Computing and Digital Media Chicago Tribune | Eugene Jarvis and Sasha Gerritson Deathtraps for firefighters: US cities aim to fix widespread abandoned building problem Fox News | Julie Lawton Afghan refugees, grappling with grief and trauma, face barriers to mental health care STAT | Anne Saw More Headlines Experts Guide DePaul faculty and staff subject matter experts are available to provide insights and commentary on the news of the day. DePaul Experts Guide Connect With Us DePaul Newsroom Connect With Us DePaul Newsroom Newsroom 1 E. Jackson Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8591 newsroom@depaul.edu 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login