Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the Dean of Students Menu Search TTU Dean of Students Responsible Community Living Texas Tech University enrolls more than 30,000 students and continues to grow. The majority of these students, more than 23,000, live off campus. While some may be geographically distant from the main campus, the majority of these off campus students choose to live in the Lubbock community. They represent approximately 10% of the population of Lubbock and as homeowners, renters and consumers have a substantial impact on the local economy. Students are likely to choose to live off campus at some point while pursuing an education at Texas Tech. This website highlights important information regarding the off campus living experience. I hope this will be a valuable resource for students who choose to reside in the Lubbock community. Living off campus provides ample opportunities for personal growth and development. It encourages students to develop independent living skills and responsible citizenship. For many students, living off campus while at Texas Tech represents a significant transition from their previous living arrangements. In preparation for these new opportunities, consider the following: Do your research. Every town/city/municipality has ordinances and expectations for both home owners and renters and Lubbock is no exception. Thoroughly research the relevant city ordinances and plan accordingly. Carefully consider the type of living arrangements that will best meet your needs. Do your best to be a good neighbor. Although there are many predominantly student apartment complexes available in the Lubbock community, many students choose to live in single family dwellings in residential neighborhoods. Treat your neighbors as you would like to be treated. Be a good and considerate neighbor! Be an informed consumer. Don't sign a lease agreement without consulting a parent, guardian or trusted advisor. Student Legal Services at Texas Tech can also provide students with invaluable legal advice regarding leases. Be mindful as an adult, you can be legally liable for such agreements once signed. Personal financial management can be challenging. Texas Tech offers the highly regarded "Red to Black" Program for personal financial management and students are encouraged to take advantage of its excellent resources. CashCourse (www.cashcourse.org/ttu) is a free on-line financial management resource for students. Among its many resources is a calculator to assist students in comparing the costs of living on or off campus. In a financial crisis, the Red Raider Relief Fund in the Office of Parent and Family Relations offers emergency funds to eligible students. Consider the logistics of living off campus. Off campus living will present students with a number of opportunities for logistical problem-solving. Many apartment complexes include some or all utilities in their lease agreement, but some do not. Single family homes in residential neighborhoods will often require students to make their own arrangements for utilities. Renting a single family dwelling may make tenants responsible for lawn care and minor home maintenance. Renters must consider the availability of convenient, safe and secure parking for themselves and their guests. Depending on location, transportation may be a new consideration for students. Consider how your distance from the campus will impact your daily schedule and plan accordingly. Provide updated mailing address information to the Postal Service as well as to the University (www.raiderlink.ttu.edu). Consider your safety. Become familiar with the neighborhood where you are considering living. Once you've moved in, continue to familiarize yourself with the neighborhood. Keep emergency numbers handy. Know when to use 911 to obtain assistance. Consider your personal health. Important aspects of student success are physical and emotional well-being. The University offers various programs and services to promote student wellness. Students have access to both Student Health Services and the Student Counseling Center should those services be needed. The Student Recreation Center provides a variety of physical fitness and relaxation activities and programs. Commuter meal plans are available from Hospitality Services for those living off campus and offer nutritious meals while on campus. The campus is designed to provide students with an engaging environment that supports their educational and personal success. Students who live off campus need to make a conscious effort to remain connected to and actively involved in the campus community. Whether students live on campus or off campus, they are part of the Red Raider family! Common Pitfalls Off Campus Safety Optional Renters Insurance City of Lubbock Off Campus Housing Search Student Wellness Student Legal Services Transportation Financial Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the Dean of Students Address Suite 201 AA, Student Union Building Phone 806.742.2984 Email deanofstudents@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 15, 2020 4:09 PM Office of the Dean of Students About Us Office of the Dean of Students About Us Back About the Office of the Dean of Students Office of the Dean of Students About Us About the Office of the Dean of Students Back Letter from the Dean Our Team Diversity & Inclusion Our Areas Office of the Dean of Students About Us Back Students of Concern Student Life Office of Student Conduct Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Student Counseling Center Students of Concern Student Handbook Office of the Dean of Students Student Handbook Back Current Student Handbook Office of the Dean of Students Student Handbook Current Student Handbook Back Foreword *Hover over each gray section for content description Part I: Code of Student Conduct Office of the Dean of Students Student Handbook Back Section A Section B Section C Section D Section E Part II: Community Policies Office of the Dean of Students Student Handbook Back Section A Section B Section C Section D Section E Section F Section G Part II: Community Polices Office of the Dean of Students Student Handbook Back Section H Section I Section J Section K Section L Section M Part II: Community Polices Office of the Dean of Students Student Handbook Back Section N Section O Section P Section Q Section R Appendix Previous Versions Resources Office of the Dean of Students Resources Back Support Resources Office of the Dean of Students Resources Support Resources Back Sexual Violence Student Complaints Student Organization Conduct Responsible Community Living Campus Crime Campus Map Dream Resource Center (DRC) Expressive Activities FAQs Support Resources Office of the Dean of Students Resources Back Student Health Services Student Counseling Center Student Disability Services Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Therapy Assistance Online (TAO Connect) Academic Office of the Dean of Students Resources Academic Back Class Absences Class Withdrawal Dropping a Course Incomplete Grades Undergraduate Academic Standing Policy Former Undergraduate Students Graduate Student Information Pregnancy and Childbirth Financial Resources Office of the Dean of Students Resources Financial Resources Back Student Business Services Financial Aid Child Care Raider Red's Food Pantry Faculty/Staff Support Office of the Dean of Students Resources Faculty/Staff Support Back Academic Integrity -Online Faculty/Staff Support Faculty & Staff Clinic Techsan Memorial Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index