Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Reunion Homecoming Menu Schedule Schedule at a Glance Volunteer Sign Up Plan a Mini-Reunion Registration General Information Look Who's Planning to Attend Class Books Overview Find Your Class Book Class Books FAQs Plan Your Visit Disability Access & Accommodations Hotels & Lodging Maps & Directions Transportation FAQs October 20–23, 2022 Make Your Return to Stanford Unforgettable Enjoy a unique selection of Reunion Homecoming events and programs. Learn from Stanford faculty on a variety of topics in Classes Without Quizzes. Explore today's campus with special tours and open houses. Dine under the stars at the elegant Dinner on the Quad. Reunite with friends (and meet new ones) at your Class Lunches, Parties, Panels, Mini-Reunions, Tailgates and community gatherings. Reunion Homecoming details and Class Book instructions will be emailed to you over the next few months, but they won't reach you unless we have your current contact information. Update your information Main content start Opportunities for your entire class to reunite come along only once every five years. Wondering what's in store? Keep reading! Class Events Reunite with old friends (and meet new ones!) at your Class Lunches, Class Panel, Class Party, Class Tailgate and Mini-Reunions. Details coming soon! Intellectual Programs Esteemed Stanford faculty explore today's most pressing issues, unveil cutting-edge research and remind us how good it feels to learn something new. Details coming in May! Dinner on the Quad Indulge in a spectacular evening under the stars. Your evening begins with cocktails in Memorial Court followed by dinner at tables arranged by class year. Details coming soon! View the schedule at a glance Volunteer Join your Reunion Homecoming Committee Have a few moments to spare? Volunteer on your class reunion committee. Rest assured that we will work toward an event that is full of Stanford energy and spirit, but also safe and healthy for all of our reunion-year alumni and staff in attendance. Sign up now Contact Us Questions? Feel free to contact the reunion team with questions, feedback, or suggestions. Email us Stanford Alumni Association Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305-6105 map Find an alum Check your alumni email Access SAA Member Card Give to Stanford Stanford Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Code of Conduct Events Featured Events Reunions Communities Clubs & Groups Young Alumni Students Reading & Resources News & Stories Learn STANFORD magazine Career Connections Newsletters Racial Justice Programs & Perks Alumni Perks Alumni Membership Sierra Programs Travel/Study Wine Collection Alumni store Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Stanford Associates Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations About About SAA Alumni Center Event Space Contact Us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top