About MBA Business Bridge Faculty & Research News Tuck School of Business Tuck School of Business Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation About Center FAQ Mission & Vision Impact Reports People Center Activity Courses & Electives Experiential Learning Programs Partnerships Student Groups News & Research Center News Research In the Media Events Get Involved Alumni Industry Leaders Students About Center FAQ Mission & Vision Impact Reports People Center Activity Courses & Electives Experiential Learning Programs Partnerships Student Groups News & Research Center News Research In the Media Events Get Involved Alumni Industry Leaders Students About MBA Business Bridge Faculty & Research News Home Mission Vision The Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation is building a thriving energy community at Tuck, Dartmouth, and beyond as we work to inspire and shape tomorrow's leaders in energy while engaging today's energy community. We believe that regardless of industry, tomorrow's wise leaders will need to make informed energy, climate change, and sustainability decisions during their careers that drive innovation for a sustainable future. What are Centers at Tuck? The six Centers at Tuck forge pathways of learning and application for our MBA students. Students are encouraged to partake in any of Tuck's individual or cross-Center opportunities to truly customize their learning and experience. Program Spotlight The Center's Fellows program gives students with a deeper interest in energy the opportunity to take on a leadership role to engage and evolve the energy ecosystem at Tuck within any industry. Learn more about the Fellows Program Find Us on Slack For the latest updates and news from Revers, current Tuck students are encouraged to find us on Slack. Sign in to Slack Revers at a Glance Revers Pledges New Gift to Renamed Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Longtime supporters of Tuck and Dartmouth, Daniel T’89 and Katy Revers recently made a $4.5 million gift and have now committed a combined $10 million in total gifts to the Center. Center News Learn more about what Tuck students, Center staff, and affiliated faculty are up to on campus and within the energy field. Student Fellows Meet our 2020-2021 Revers Fellows. Experiential Learning The Center sponsors and supports numerous opportunities for Tuck students to gain real-world experience in the field of energy. CONTACT US 603-646-9247 Send us an email Join our mailing list Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Back to Top Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.