Research Integrity and Assurance Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Us Submenu Our Team Animal Care and Use Submenu Committee Meetings and Deadlines Forms Post-approval Monitoring Regulations and Resources Policies and Guidelines Training Assurances Classroom Materials Report a Concern Human Research Submenu Committee Meetings and Deadlines Forms and Templates Post-approval Monitoring Regulations and Resources Policies and Guidelines Training Assurances Research Data Security Submenu What Kind of Data Protection Do I Need Best Practices for Data Analysis of Confidential Data Preparing Research Data for Public Use Keeping Research Data Secure When Traveling What to Do in In the Event of Theft, Loss, or Unauthorized Use of Confidential Research Data Who to Contact for Assistance Citadel General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Who to Contact The Final Rule FAQs Research with Biohazards Submenu Committee Meetings and Deadlines Forms Post-approval Monitoring Regulations and Resources Policies and Guidelines Submenu Dual Use Research of Concern Training Conflict of Interest Submenu Committee Forms Regulations and Resources Policies and Guidelines Training FAQs eRIA Submenu eRIA-IACUC eRIA-IBC eRIA-IRB eRIA Help & Training Contact Us Report a Concern Log in Search Search Research Integrity and Assurance Coronavirus (COVID-19) Guidance Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (COVID-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities, in keeping with our commitment to ensure the health and safety of all members of the University community. The latest University guidance for students, faculty and staff is available on the University’s Emergency Management website. For COVID-19-related guidance, resources and information on topics affecting Princeton's research community, visit COVID-19 Information for Researchers. 1 / 8 Previous image ◀︎ Next image ▶︎ What We Do Provide guidance and educational tools to the research community in the effective administration of research compliance. As subject matter experts, RIA will interpret federal regulation, guideline and policy to develop internal recommendations specific to Princeton’s research and culture. Throughout this process, RIA will foster relationships with our academic partners to promote responsibility in the conduct of ethical research. Human Research Protection Program Protect the rights, privacy, and welfare of human participants in university research. Research with Biohazards Use of biological agents including r/s DNA, infectious agents, toxins and human or non-human primate materials. Animal Care and Use Ethical care and use of animals in research, training, and testing. Conflict of Interest University Dean of Faculty (DOF) appointees are obligated to make an appropriate disclosure when, in the their judgment and in the spirit of the... Announcements No Noncompliant Items identified by USDA Inspection of Animal Research Program March 8, 2022 Non-compliance incident reported Oct. 26, 2021 USDA Inspection of Animal Research Program Yields No Citations Sept. 17, 2021 eRIA-IBC IS NOW LIVE! Aug. 31, 2021 View All News Footer Research Integrity & Assurance 619 Alexander Road, Suite 102 Princeton, NJ 08540-6000 Fax: 609-258-1252 Email: ria@princeton.edu Footer menu Office of the Dean for Research Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations Laboratory Animal Resources Princeton Entrepreneurship Council Research and Project Administration Research Integrity and Assurance Technology Licensing Facebook Twitter YouTube Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University