Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Resilient Infrastructure & Disaster Response Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services About Mission People Directory Affiliates Additional Resources Labs LABORATORY FOR RESILIENT MATERIALS AND STRUCTURES LABORATORY FOR SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT LABORATORY OF ADVANCED OPERATIONS RESEARCH AND RESILIENCE APPLICATIONS WATER SUSTAINABILITY AND COASTAL HAZARDS (WaSCH) LAB Events Seminars Impact News UROP Net-Zero Infrastructure Gulf Scholars Program CTSA Global Sustainability Group Sustainable Green Team Contact Resilient Infrastructure Tools FEMA Resilience Analysis and Planning Tool (RAPT) FSU FREAC Resilient Infrastructure Tool FREAC High Res 1km 2020 Population Estimates FREAC Southeastern 2018 1km Social Vulnerability Glyphs Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Resilient Infrastructure & Disaster Response Center Toggle navigation About Mission People Directory Affiliates Additional Resources Labs LABORATORY FOR RESILIENT MATERIALS AND STRUCTURES LABORATORY FOR SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT LABORATORY OF ADVANCED OPERATIONS RESEARCH AND RESILIENCE APPLICATIONS WATER SUSTAINABILITY AND COASTAL HAZARDS (WaSCH) LAB Events Seminars Impact News UROP Net-Zero Infrastructure Gulf Scholars Program CTSA Global Sustainability Group Sustainable Green Team Contact Resilient Infrastructure Tools FEMA Resilience Analysis and Planning Tool (RAPT) FSU FREAC Resilient Infrastructure Tool FREAC High Res 1km 2020 Population Estimates FREAC Southeastern 2018 1km Social Vulnerability Glyphs About Us RIDER’s vision is a world in which everyone is resilient to disaster. The RIDER Center promotes all-inclusive and equitable disaster resilience for vulnerable populations. RIDER leverages technology, data, and multidisciplinary research with a deep understanding of how the unique conditions of each community’s physical and social dynamics, available infrastructure, and land use affect resilience. Found at the nexus of engineering, science, and communities, RIDER’s solutions empower under-served communities with new tools, training, and enhanced partnerships between public, private, non-profit, and academic stakeholders. Improving disaster resilience will protect our vulnerable populations, save billions, and better our society as a whole; RIDER is leading that work. At a Glance Disasters are a fact of life. From hurricanes to COVID, wildfires to human-caused hazards, disasters change our lives and widen the broadening gap between populations that are resilient and those harmed most when disaster strikes. This gap, known as the resilience divide, leaves our vulnerable populations susceptible to the worst outcomes in their social, built, economic and natural environments. Disasters take lives, damage communities, and cause billions of dollars in losses each year. Boosting disaster resilience and reducing the resilience gap will protect our vulnerable populations, save billions, and better our society as whole; RIDER is leading that work. RIDER is working to reduce the resilience gap and protect our most vulnerable communities. Its multidisciplinary approach uses living laboratories and combines rigorous data-driven research with community insights - RIDER partners with community leaders, residents, government, industry, and researchers. This unique integrative approach, combined with the close involvement of these stakeholders, will result in new research insights and policy instruments that account for the interdependency and interconnectivity between communities, the environment, and infrastructure. Spanning FSU and FAMU, RIDER unites engineers, social scientists, social workers, health, public policy, community and information specialists to find science-backed solutions to meet the needs of our most vulnerable communities and improve and increase resilient infrastructure and disaster response capacities. RIDER Center is founded on the mission of achieving adaptive capacity and resilience for the communities affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes and the COVID-19 pandemic. RIDER unites engineers, social scientists, social workers, health, public policy, communication, and information specialists synergistically towards developing emergency plans that fit the distinct needs of both urban and rural communities to solve the real-world problem of the “resilience divide.” RIDER specifically focuses on: Understanding the factors that foster and support the efficacy of disaster resilience in varying population settings Extending our knowledge of community-scale infrastructure limitations in planning for natural disasters Developing long-term strategic adaptation and implementation plans to reduce community vulnerability needed desperately by the under-served areas of the state and the country affected by natural disasters to sustain their communities. The Resilience Divide includes the “Vast differences in which individuals and communities experience disaster impacts. For both acute impacts and long-term recovery, factors such as the country or region in which you live, your race, and your socioeconomic status play a large role in determining your ability to thrive — and to be resilient — in the face of a disaster.” —One Concern The RIDER Vision A world in which everyone is resilient to disaster RIDER’s vision focuses on implementing living laboratories in real-life urban and rural communities and settings, grounded in the scientific exploration of the complex and nonlinear interactions among systems. The key insight underlying this vision is the transformative discoveries through the co-production of solutions with community leaders, residents, government, industry, and researchers. Our unique multidisciplinary approach, along with the close involvement of these stakeholders, will result in new research insights and policy instruments. As our overarching strategy, we seek to become a nationally and globally recognized center of resilience for disasters. RIDER promotes “all-inclusive” and “equitable” disaster resilience for varying vulnerable population segments, and probes the underlying causes of disaster vulnerability in communities, while accounting for infrastructure characteristics, and social needs factors, and assessing their significance through various computational methods such as machine learning, causality, and regression models. These goals are critical since the associated risks are heterogeneous across population groups and space dependent on the available network, infrastructure, land use, and other localized conditions. The Resilience Divide Those who study natural and manmade disasters, as well as a society’s recovery from that disaster, have uncovered some startling facts. More and more, researchers and editors like those from Medium’s “One Concern” are seeing, “vast differences in which individuals and communities experience disaster impacts. For both acute impacts and long-term recovery, factors such as the country or region in which you live, your race, and your socioeconomic status play a large role in determining your ability to thrive — and to be resilient — in the face of a disaster.” This is known as the Resilience Divide. RIDER Center is a direct response to this challenge and one of our goals is eliminating the discrepancy. title-inside title-centered 2 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media