Jump to navigation About Our House Living in Riepe Event Series Riepe History Flickr Photo Gallery People Program Communities Mentors Program Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Services & Operations House Office Hours Lounge & Common Areas Buildings Policies & Information Frequently Asked Questions Riepe Policies Poster and Flyering Policies Getting Help Technology Help Facilities Issues Laundry Help Calendar PennKey Logout You are here Front Page About The Photo Members of the 2020-21 staff of Riepe College House pose in the Quad, remembering their WWWs: Wearing face coverings, watching their physical distance, and washing their hands (not shown). About The Photo Riepe College House is named for the generous support of James and Gail Petty Riepe and honors their longstanding dedication to strengthening student life at Penn. James Riepe, W'65, '67 is a former chairman of Penn's Board of Trustees and Gail Petty Riepe, CW'68 is a member of the Board of Overseers for the School of Veterinary Medicine. About The Photo This section of the Quad was built between 1904 and 1910 in the Tudor style that continues the earlier architecture of the Quad by the firm of Cope and Stewardson. The ornate clock at the top of the magnificent Provosts' Tower is made of green bronze while the hands and numerals are gilded. About The Photo Penn's historic Quad was majorly renovated in 2000, with support from numerous families and classes. Known for its lively social life, Riepe has plenty of quiet spaces for solitary or group study and other activities. About Our House Living in Riepe Event Series Riepe History Flickr Photo Gallery People Program Communities Mentors Program Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Services & Operations House Office Hours Lounge & Common Areas Buildings Policies & Information Frequently Asked Questions Riepe Policies Poster and Flyering Policies Getting Help Technology Help Facilities Issues Laundry Help Calendar PennKey Logout PennKey Login Search Follow Riepe on Social Media! Riepe College House Office Phone (215) 898-2855 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact riepe@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Monday-Friday, 10AM-6PM House Address 310 S. 36th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help