Request Information > Climb the Ladder with UofM Global Earn your degree 100% online from the accredited, nationally-recognized University of Memphis. Introducing RISE: Responders Initiating Success through Education, a partnership between UofM Global and the City of Memphis Fire Department. Through this innovative program, MFD employees can earn a degree in a cost-effective, timely manner with the help of a support team dedicated to student success. Flexible & Accessible Dedicated Support Network Tuition Allowance Maximization Transfer credit is accepted from regionally accredited institutions. Online course offerings accommodate work schedule. Enjoy assistance from a program-specific admissions specialist, a designated academic advisor and advocate and access to 24/7 virtual tutoring. A financial aid specialist is available to review funding availability and usage and to help with budgeting annual tuition allowance. Learn more about the UofM Global Advantage > Suggested Degree Program We highly recommend our Bachelor of Professional Studies degree program for several reasons including: Three ideal concentration options for RISE students: Emergency Management Health Services Organizational Leadership The time to degree completion is generally shorter with the BPS degree because it offers such flexibility in course choices, and this means you finish faster! Explore All Program Options > Getting Started: The RISE Admissions Process As a student in the RISE program, you will be assigned a RISE Advocate who will guide you through the admission process and be available throughout your journey with UofM Global. 1 2 3 Request Official Transcripts from previous high school and college/s. Email to RISE@memphis.edu. RISE Advocate will request your training record from the Memphis Fire Department for evaluation for Experiential Learning Credit (ELC). Complete the interest form > 6 4 5 Your RISE Advocate will contact you to discuss if any additional documents are needed. Once accepted, your RISE Advocate will connect you with your academic advisor for course registration and next steps. Completed application will be reviewed for admission. Prep Academy If you are new to college, new to online learning or you’ve been out of school for a while, the Prep Academy is an excellent starting point. Self-paced, online coursework Unlimited attempts to succeed, no upfront costs Key topics include: Academic Success, Career Planning and Development, Personal and Career Success Prep Academy Success = Admission to UofM + 12 College Credit Hours Financial Options Payment Plan Federal Financial Aid Tuition Reimbursement Enroll in a payment plan that allows you to make three monthly payments per semester rather than paying for the entire semester at one time. You may be eligible for Federal Financial Aid by completing the FAFSA application. Federal aid can be loans (to be repaid) and/or grants (do not have to be repaid). As a City of Memphis employee, you are eligible for $3,000 annually in employer assistance for your education. UofM Global is committed to working with City of Memphis employees to streamline the Tuition Reimbursement process. The City of Memphis requires students to submit a Letter of Credit (LOC) for tuition benefits to apply towards classes. If you are interested in utilizing your tuition benefit, LOCs must be submitted for every semester you enroll in classes. If you have any questions about the LOC process, please contact your Student Advocate, ShaRhonda Williams, at srwllms7@memphis.edu. Experiential Learning Credit Believing that rigorous professional and/or personal development occurs outside the classroom, the UofM grants up to 30 credit hours in Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) to students who demonstrate the academic merit of such experiences. ELC shortens time to degree completion. The following certifications have been pre-assessed: Paramedic certification: 30 credit hours Firefighter certification: 30 credit hours Learn more about ELC Ready to RISE to success? Complete the RISE Interest Form below. A RISE Advocate will contact you to help create the best route for you. Current Certifcations Paramedic EMT Firefighter Other Program of Interest Emergency Management Organizational Leadership Health Services Other Education Level High School Diploma Some College: 1-30 Credit Hours Some College: 31-60 Credit Hours Some College: 60+ Credit Hours Earned Associate's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Other Are you currently enrolled in college? Yes No Have you ever attended the University of Memphis? Yes No How did you hear about RISE? Email Poster/Flyer Coworker/Training Center/Friend Other I authorize my employer to release my training record to the University of Memphis. Yes No To receive tuition assistance through this program we must share your educational records (including financial aid, grades, academic progress, etc) with your employer. The privacy of your educational records is normally protected under the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Please review the FERPA guidelines linked below and respond to the following statement: I approve the release of my educational information to my employer and any third party directly related to my tuition benefits. I understand that this information is normally protected under FERPA guidelines, however I give my consent to share this information for the purpose of this program’s direct billing process. I also understand that if I do not give my consent, I will not be able to participate in this program. Yes No Request More Information > Review Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Guidelines > University of Memphis | 844.302.3886 | RISE@memphis.edu Memphis, TN 38152 | uofmglobal.memphis.edu Thank You!