Skip to Main Content Yale RITM Site Navigation About Curriculum Programs & Partnerships Scholarship & Research Secondary Navigation News Events Menu Search Search Yale Center for the Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration Who We Are RITM fosters intellectual exchanges that cross institutional, disciplinary, and geographic borders; enrich and challenge academic fields; and foreground underrepresented perspectives. Titus Kaphar, Shifting the Gaze (2017) Watch Titus Kaphar's talk,"Can art mend history?"﻿ Join the conversation. Looking to get involved in a program? Apply for fellowships or grants? Attend a lecture or conference? Browse the links below and at the top of this page. Read the Latest News﻿ Explore Upcoming Events﻿ Stay Informed Subscribe to our mailing list to learn about RITM's events and activities. Sign up Yale Bassett Award for Community Engagement Each year RITM recognizes outstanding high school juniors throughout the United States who excel in their classrooms and communities. Learn More about the Bassett Award Program in Ethnicity, Race, & Migration The cornerstone of our undergraduate curriculum is the Program in Ethnicity, Race, and Migration (ER&M). Explore ER&M Graduate Curriculum With fellowships and seminars, RITM builds communities of scholars and practitioners in ethnic studies and other fields. Explore Graduate curriculum Fellows RITM Fellows have worked on projects related to nineteenth-century African American women’s history, race in Cuba and the Dominican Republic, trans-Pacific Asian American literatures, the racialization of Islam, the history of Latinos in the U.S. Armed Services, and much more. Meet our current fellows Working Groups Meeting regularly throughout the academic year, RITM faculty-led working groups advance interdisciplinary scholarship in areas of historical and contemporary importance. Learn about our working groups Speakers & Symposia Play 1 / 4 Racial Capitalism and the U.S. Colonial Present Play 2 / 4 Kalindi Vora, Inefficient Feeling Play 3 / 4 2019 RITM Research Symposium Play 4 / 4 War, Remembrance, and Performance Yale Center for the Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration 35 Broadway, 2nd Floor New Haven CT 06511 ritm@yale.edu 203-432-3233 Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Footer Navigation Accessiblity Privacy Policy Back to Yale.edu Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Back to Yale.edu Site Menu Yale RITM Site Navigation About Staff Advisory Board Research Fellows Faculty Curriculum Faculty Graduate Undergraduate Programs & Partnerships Yale Bassett Award for Community Engagement Distinguished Lectures RITM Lecture Series RITM Lunch Series Our Partners Scholarship & Research Research and Conference Travel Awards Social Text Search Submit Secondary Navigation News Events Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Close