Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subirim Research Main IRIM Home Research Core Facilities Education Overview Ph.D. Program in Robotics M.S. Program In Robotics SURE Summer Program Visiting Faculty Fellows Life as a Professor Careers & Internships Seminar Series Overview Seminar Archives Kelly Distinguished Lecture RoboGrads Seminars Industry Program Overview Benefits and Options Become an Affiliate Available Technologies Industry Events Outreach Overview Tour A Robotics Lab Robot Trading Cards National Robotics Week News & Events IRIM @ ICRA 2022 News Events Robotics Symposium News Archives People Leadership Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Open Search Search Search Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Machines HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Machines Robotics Research The depth and breadth of IRIM breaks through disciplinary boundaries and allows for transformative research that transitions from theory to robustly deployed systems featuring next-generation robots. Fundamental research includes expertise in mechanics, control, perception, artificial intelligence and cognition, interaction, and systems. Our strategic research is organized around six main themes. Learn More Core Research Facilities The Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Machines at Georgia Tech supports and facilitates the operation of several core research facilities on campus allowing our faculty, students and collaborators to advance the boundaries of robotics research. Learn More Robotics Education Georgia Tech offers an interdisciplinary path to an MS in Robotics, as well as the first Ph.D. program in robotics, to students enrolled in a participating school within either the College of Computing or the College of Engineering. A fully integrated, multidisciplinary experience, the M.S. & Ph.D. programs include both coursework and research with faculty members in various units across campus. Learn More IRIM & Industry Our Industry Affiliates Program allows members to explore opportunities for research collaboration, facilities and services, consulting, student hiring, and other interactions. Whether you join as a strategic partner, an affiliate, or as a member of one of our customized consortia, your company will be supported through our work as a interdisciplinary group of robotics leaders. Learn More IRIM & Outreach The Institute for Robotics & Intelligent Machines (IRIM) participates in numerous K-12 STEM and community outreach activities related to robotics. Additionally, IRIM hosts tours throughout the year, and our student group, RoboGrads, participates in activities to raise awareness of the importance of robotics technology and stimulate interest in the field Learn More Blank Space (X-Large) (text and background only visible when logged in) News & Event Features View the Interactive Data Here Video Features | Smart Art @ Georgia Tech Blank Space (X-Large) (text and background only visible when logged in) A Wicked Game Presenting Guitar Bot! Great new research from the creative minds at Georgia Tech Center for Music Technology. GTGraffiti Just in time for ICRA 2022! Spray Painting Graffiti Art from Human Painting Motions with a Cable Driven Parallel Robot Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN