Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Faculty Alumni Students for Public Policy and the Social Sciences The Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Rockefeller.Center@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Public Policy Policy Research Shop PRS Briefs Support for the PRS Legislator Information PRS Testimonies Public Policy Minor Minor Requirements Courses Public Policy Minor Tracks Public Policy Alumni First-Year Fellows Civic Skills Training Current First-Year Fellows First-Year Fellows Alumni Internships Apply Eligibility Current Interns Named Funds Named Class Funds Dartmouth-Oxford Exchange Apply to the Dartmouth-Oxford Exchange Keble Exchange Participants Oxford Academic Terms Keble Tips Back to Top Nav Leadership Dartmouth Leadership Attitudes & Behaviors Program Student Facilitators Management & Leadership Development Program Rockefeller Global Leadership Program Rockefeller Leadership Fellows Current Cohort Alumni Digital Badging Back to Top Nav Funding Faculty Research Funding Opportunities Funded Research Projects Faculty Council Faculty Classroom Enhancement Grants Recent Grants Awarded Faculty Group Workshops Dartmouth Archaeology Group Health Policy Group International History Group International Relations and Foreign Policy Seminar Senior Honors Thesis Grants Recent Thesis Grant Recipients Student Mini-Grants Conference Attendance Student Group Event Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Rocky Public Programs Presidential Primaries at Dartmouth College Named Lectures Law-Related Named Lectures Class of 1930 Fellows Class of 1964 Outstanding Leadership Award Perkins Bass Distinguished Visitors Portman Lecture in the Spirit of Entrepreneurship Rockefeller Distinguished Public Service Award Back to Top Nav About the Center About the Center Board of Visitors Former Board of Visitors Center Library History of the Center Past Directors Rockefeller & Art People Diversity and Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Rocky On Camera - Learn More About What the Rockefeller Center has to Offer Welcome to the Rockefeller Center 25s! We want to introduce you to all the Rocky has to offer. Please check out these videos to learn what Rocky has to offer! Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Bill Barrow, Associated Press Reporter, Calls for American Journalism to Reclaim Nuance and Complexity On May 9, Bill Barrow, National Politics Reporter for the Associated Press, visited Dartmouth College to deliver the Bernard D. Nossiter '47 Lecture titled, "Covering American Democracy: It's Not a Game (At Least It Shouldn't Be)." Martin Luther King III Issues Call to Action The social justice activist warns that democracy "is very much on the ballot." Dartmouth News Sonali Chakravarti, 2022 Timbers Lecturer, speaks on Chauvin Trial and Juror Impartiality On April 28, 2022, Sonali Chakravarti, Professor of Government at Wesleyan University, delivered the William H. Timbers '37 Lecture. 2022 Perkins Bass Visitor, Bill Gardner speaks on elections On Wednesday, April 13, former New Hampshire secretary of state Bill Gardner came to campus to deliver the 2022 Perkins Bass Distinguished Lecture. Rockefeller Center Policy Fellow, Anne Sosin, quoted in NYT "Is Covid More Dangerous Than Driving? How Scientists Are Parsing Covid Risks.The coronavirus remains new enough and its long-term effects unpredictable enough that measuring the threat posed by an infection is a thorny problem." Martin Luther King III to Speak at Dartmouth The event will take place on the anniversary of his father's 1962 address on campus. Former Secretary of State Bill Gardner to Speak at Rocky The longtime protector of the N.H. primary named Perkins Bass Distinguished Visitor. Broderick Calls Attention to the Need for Greater Mental Health Awareness and Infrastructure On February 16, 2022, the Rockefeller Center welcomed former Chief Justice of the New Hampshire Supreme Court, John Broderick, Jr, for a public lecture titled "Changing the Conversation Around Mental Health—It's Way Past Time." Invest in Tomorrow's Leaders Your support for the programs of the Rockefeller Center is an investment in the next generation of public policy leaders. The Center Library The Rockefeller Center Library is intended as an electronic gateway to the research and reports produced by the Center. Annual Reports Course Projects Faculty Scholarship PRS Briefs Senior Honors Theses State of the State Polls Search We want your feedback! Have a suggestion for a great speaker? Ideas on programming? Thoughts on your Rocky experience? Click the link, above, or email us . We look forward to hearing from you! events view all Sep 23 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Sep 24 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Main menu Dartmouth College Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy Public Policy Policy Research Shop PRS Briefs Support for the PRS Legislator Information PRS Testimonies Public Policy Minor Minor Requirements Courses Public Policy Minor Tracks Public Policy Alumni First-Year Fellows Civic Skills Training Current First-Year Fellows First-Year Fellows Alumni Internships Apply Eligibility Current Interns Named Funds Named Class Funds Dartmouth-Oxford Exchange Apply to the Dartmouth-Oxford Exchange Keble Exchange Participants Oxford Academic Terms Keble Tips Leadership Dartmouth Leadership Attitudes & Behaviors Program Student Facilitators Management & Leadership Development Program Rockefeller Global Leadership Program Rockefeller Leadership Fellows Current Cohort Alumni Digital Badging Funding Faculty Research Funding Opportunities Funded Research Projects Faculty Council Faculty Classroom Enhancement Grants Recent Grants Awarded Faculty Group Workshops Dartmouth Archaeology Group Health Policy Group International History Group International Relations and Foreign Policy Seminar Senior Honors Thesis Grants Recent Thesis Grant Recipients Student Mini-Grants Conference Attendance Student Group Event News & Events News & Events Rocky Public Programs Presidential Primaries at Dartmouth College Named Lectures Law-Related Named Lectures Class of 1930 Fellows Class of 1964 Outstanding Leadership Award Perkins Bass Distinguished Visitors Portman Lecture in the Spirit of Entrepreneurship Rockefeller Distinguished Public Service Award About the Center About the Center Board of Visitors Former Board of Visitors Center Library History of the Center Past Directors Rockefeller & Art People Diversity and Inclusion Faculty Faculty Manuscript Reviews Alumni Connect Donate Mentor Volunteer Board of Visitors Students Public Policy Programs Leadership Programs Funding Opportunities Internship Opportunities Dartmouth Model United Nations (DartMUN) Model UN Secretariat Outside Opportunities Senior Reflections Listen to Senior Reflections Work for the Center Civic Skills Training Communications Dartmouth Leadership Attitudes and Behaviors Database Management Graphic Design Internships Program Management and Leadership Development Program Photography Public Programs Rockefeller Global Leadership Program  Student Mini-Grants Student Program Assistants Ribbon Footer Donate Support the next generation of public policy leaders. Volunteer Get involved with our students and young alumni. Stay Connected Keep in touch and let us be a resource for you as well. Close Research Funding We offer annual grants for faculty research on public policy issues. Faculty Workshops Faculty workshops encourage regular policy discussions. Faculty Council The Faculty Council provides counsel on new initiatives and is a liaison with students and faculty. Close People General Inquiries & Student Employment Rockefeller.Center@Dartmouth.edu Facilities Management, Finance, & Rocky Mini-Grants Lynn.M.Spencer@dartmouth.edu Public Programs & Events Joanne.R.Blais@Dartmouth.edu Public Policy Minor, Policy Research Shop, & Dartmouth-Oxford Exchange Laura.M.Mitchell@dartmouth.edu First-Year Fellows Rockefeller.First.Year.Fellows@dartmouth.edu Internship Funding Robert.B.Coates@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address Dartmouth College 6082 Rockefeller Hall Hanover, NH 03755http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-3874 HB: HB 6082 Email: Rockefeller.Center@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Close Rockefeller Center Alumni Rockefeller Center Faculty Opportunities Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback