Jump to navigation About Our House History & Coat of Arms Photo Galleries Orientation Program Communities 2nd Floor - Jewish Cultural Studies Program (JCS) 9th Floor - The Rodin Arts Collective (TRAC) 11th Floor - Transfer Living Community (TLC) 19th Floor - Rodin Leadership Program (RLP) 23rd Floor - Balanced Living Community BL(o)C Signature Programs Rodin_24 Traditions College House Music Program Get Involved! Rodin Student Leaders Faculty Programs Rodin House Council (RHC) Propose an Event! House Staff Room Reservations Room Reservation Policy Rodin Resource Room About Our Resource Room Loan Library Services & Operations House Office Info Center Computer Lab Mail Services Policies & Procedures Residential Handbook Poster and Flyering Policies Room Reservation Policy Collection Boxes Room Selection How to Apply Room Layouts Room Types Room Rates & Policies Getting Help Computing Help Facilities Problems Housing Process Laundry Issues Other Campus Resources Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page About The Photo Former Penn President Judith Rodin visits her namesake House in October 2021; shown here with Rodin Faculty Director Prof. Dan Gillion. About The Photo Get to know the many aspects of Rodin College House, including our stellar RA staff, shown here outside Rodin in front of our iconic "Covenant" sculpture. About The Photo If you need help finding Rodin College House, just look for the rainbow. About The Photo Penn President Dr. Amy Gutmann visits Rodin College House. Welcome Rodinites! Welcome to Rodin College House. You could not have chosen a better College House to live in over the next year here at the University of Pennsylvania. With a tradition of being the very best College House on campus, so much awaits you here. Rodin is a place that strives for excellence in all that we do. We pride ourselves on creating a vibrant and diverse community for the students who choose to live in our House. Most importantly, we are a family of students, staff, and faculty who are striving to make your year in Rodin memorable. We are home to The Rodin Arts Collective (TRAC), the Rodin Leadership Program (RLP), the Jewish Culture Studies (JCS) program, the Balanced Living Community (BLoC), and - coming in Fall 2022 - the Transfer Living Community (TLC). Our faculty and staff host terrific programs that allow residents to thrive. You can further your research efforts with Dr. Daniel Gillion’s Research Roadmap. You can also explore the arts and music all over Philadelphia with House Fellows Dr. Mauro Calcagno and Dr. Jamuna Samuel, both faculty in the music department. House Fellow Dr. Ariana Chao loves to host programs about finding balance with Penn students' busy schedules, and is well renown for her bio-behavioral approach to researching obesity and healthy life habits. And if you have any questions or interest in Library Sciences, we encourage you to build a rapport with our newest House Fellow Dr. Katie Rawson. Learn or practice the craft of crocheting (while enjoying some snacks) with the House Director Kathryn McDonald through Scarf and Scarf. And if you are ever in need of a good chat, a quick answer to a simple question or to talk about doggies, you can usually find House Coordinator Julie Cooke in the house office during the week. Our student staff help maintain and create the various traditions in our House such as Rodin_24, Sunday Brunches, Tower Hour, and Monday Morning Mirth. Keep an eye on our calendar for information on this events and many more. We encourage you to engage with these opportunities, and to become active participants in shaping your Rodin experience! The Rodin College House staff commits to Be Real, Be Compassionate, and Be Here...Thus, our motto is “To be rather than to seem.” We hope that through our efforts you can do the same! -Dr. Daniel Gillion, Rodin Faculty Director & -Kathryn McDonald, Rodin House Director About Our House History & Coat of Arms Photo Galleries Orientation Program Communities 2nd Floor - Jewish Cultural Studies Program (JCS) 9th Floor - The Rodin Arts Collective (TRAC) 11th Floor - Transfer Living Community (TLC) 19th Floor - Rodin Leadership Program (RLP) 23rd Floor - Balanced Living Community BL(o)C Signature Programs Rodin_24 Traditions College House Music Program Get Involved! Rodin Student Leaders Faculty Programs Rodin House Council (RHC) Propose an Event! House Staff Room Reservations Room Reservation Policy Rodin Resource Room About Our Resource Room Loan Library Services & Operations House Office Info Center Computer Lab Mail Services Policies & Procedures Residential Handbook Poster and Flyering Policies Room Reservation Policy Collection Boxes Room Selection How to Apply Room Layouts Room Types Room Rates & Policies Getting Help Computing Help Facilities Problems Housing Process Laundry Issues Other Campus Resources Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Rodin College House Office Phone (215) 573-3576 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact rodin@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours House Office Monday - Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm Rodin Resource Room Monday - Thursday | 4:30pm - 12am Friday | 4pm - 9pm Saturday | 12pm - 5pm Sunday | 7:30pm - 12am House Address 3901 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help