arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Undergraduate French Italian Polish Portuguese Spanish Courses Placement, Testing and Transfer Credit CASE Testing Schedule Awards & Fellowships Graduate French Graduate Program Italian Graduate Program Spanish & Portuguese Graduate Program Current Graduate Students Graduate Student Placement Faculty Research Faculty Publications Diacritics About Us Contact Us Department Directory and Office Hours Romance Studies “Original work, broadly conceived”: diacritics: A Review of Contemporary Criticism Turns Fifty (Re)pensando a Venezuela returns for its third season $2M in New Frontier Grants boost high-impact A&S research Online game replicates frustrations of research and disability Cornell poet, scholar receive 2021-2022 Rome Prize Kennedy recognized by Renaissance Society of America "(Re)pensando a Venezuela" discussion series kicks off Sept. 18 Summer in Madrid program transforms students Studying the relationship between humanities, climate change Prev Next News Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. 'I didn't even know I could get this excited about learning and research' Amelia Clute is a College Scholar and Spanish Language major. View all news Upcoming Events View all events SEP 13Jo Labanyi, "Galdós and the History of Emotions: Fro... This is the 2022-23 Kronik Lecture. OCT 17Sara Brenneis, "Los campos: The Spanish Deportation ... Pick a Destination Faculty Profiles Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Current Course Listings Department Contacts Areas of Research Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Extraordinary Journeys Recent graduates reflect on their experiences and studies at Cornell: "Thanks to my Arts & Sciences education, I am a fluent reader, writer and scholar in four different languages... I wrote my honors theses on Italian and German works of literature, and I spent a summer conducting anthropological research on Quilombola communities in Brazil. The ability to think critically and express myself in several languages has contributed to my analytical skills, professional development and provided me with an international perspective." - Ariana Croese, '22 Amelia Clute, College Scholar, Spanish Language Ariana Croese, Italian and German Studies Natalie Kalitsi, Information Science & French Catalina Peñéñory, Classics and Italian Luis Tamayo, Sociology and Spanish Read more Extraordinary Journeys of the Class of 2022 Any person... Any study Pursue your interests with courses in French, Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese, as well as Polish language and Romance Studies Freshman Writing Seminars. Our spring 2021 courses span many topics—check them out at the links below! Courses Placement and Testing French Placement Italian Placement Spanish Placement Portuguese Placement Office Hours Twitter CornellROMS Congratulazioni to Giulia Andreoni, PhD '21! Dr. Andreoni's AAIS conference paper on Moderata Fonte and Dante has… https://t.co/Emsu3vUn8O 19 hours 54 min ago Explore Our Majors Apply to Romance Studies See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to Romance Studies The College of Arts & Sciences Facebook Twitter Instagram K161 Klarman Hall Ithaca, New York 14853 Email the Department • Resources for students and Resources for faculty ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.