Skip to Main Content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Columbia University Libraries Room Reservation Your browser has javascript disabled. Without javascript some functions will not work. Title/Search Masks are now optional. Access to spaces in the Libraries' locations may be limited or may change per University guidelines. Visit our Using the Libraries page to learn more about accessing and working with our collections. Use our online tool to book study rooms in the library. Butler Library Business & Economics Library in Uris Lehman Social Sciences Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Terms & Conditions to Enter and Use Libraries Spaces To enter and use Libraries' spaces, you must have your Columbia ID with you, and you must abide by Columbia's Community Health Compact and adhere to the following terms and conditions: Mask are now optional. Food (and in some locations drinks) are not permitted Leave furniture in place Wash your hands after touching shared surfaces Library reading rooms are subject to the Columbia University Libraries Code of Conduct. You will be asked to leave the library and referred to Student Conduct for failure to comply. Agreement By making this reservation, you are verifying your understanding that you are accountable to all Columbia rules and regulations, including the Compact and the Libraries Code of Conduct, while using the reserved space. This includes not only your own behavior, but that of those you permit into the space during your reservation. Failure to comply with University policies may lead to immediate dismissal from the library and referral to Student Conduct and Community Standards for review. Should you no longer need the space, it is important to cancel your reservation so you are not held accountable for other individuals' behavior. Powered by Springshare. All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. Login to LibApps Cymraeg English español français Irish 日本語 Nihongo slovenski jezik Tiếng Việt 中文 Zhōngwén Room Reservation – Home Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2019 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination