Jump to main content Search form Search × Rights, Rules, Responsibilities Main menu University-wide Regulations 1.1 University Principles of General Conduct and Regulations 1.2 University-wide Conduct Regulations 1.3 Title IX Sexual Harassment and University Sexual Misconduct 1.4 The University, the Law, and Property Rights 1.5 Guidelines Relating to the Tax-Exempt Status of the University and Political Activities 1.6 Health and Safety Policies 1.7 Resolution of Complaints against Members of the University Community 1.8 The Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) 1.9 The Judicial Committee of the Council of the Princeton University Community Students and the University 2.1 Rights and Responsibilities of Students 2.2 Regulations Concerning Specific Aspects of Student Life 2.3 The Undergraduate Honor System 2.4 Academic Regulations 2.5 University Discipline 2.6 The Graduate School 2.7 Student Privacy Rights under Federal Law The University and the Community 3.1 Community Use of University Resources 3.2 Regulations Governing Solicitation, Distribution, and Peaceful Dissent, Protests, and Demonstrations by Off-Campus Individuals or Organizations 3.3 University Security Policy for Persons Who Are Not Members of the University EOP Index Equal Opportunity Policy 2021 Princeton University subscribes to a policy of equal opportunity. The University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all helps create a climate that is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. For these reasons, decisions concerning admission to University academic and other programs, as well as employment decisions in all University departments and offices, are made on the basis of an individual’s qualifications to contribute to meeting Princeton’s educational objectives and its institutional needs. In applying this policy, the University is committed to the principle of not discriminating against individuals on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law unrelated to job or program requirements. In addition to the general policy just defined, Princeton has specific legal obligations as a recipient of federal financial assistance and as a federal contractor. These obligations include the development and implementation of a plan to undertake appropriate forms of affirmative action to employ women, people of color, people with disabilities, and protected veterans. Princeton’s affirmative action plan is available to employees and job applicants upon request for review between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. at the Office of the Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity, Princeton University, 205 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544 or 609-258-6110. You must schedule an appointment to view the affirmative action plan. The University president and provost are responsible for overseeing the implementation of this equal opportunity policy and the affirmative action plan. The vice provost for institutional equity and diversity is responsible for monitoring University practices and procedures to ensure compliance with our policy and federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Inquiries regarding these matters should be directed to the Office of the Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity, Princeton University, 205 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544 or 609-258-6110. Nondiscrimination Statement In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and other federal, state and local laws, Princeton University does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, religion, national or ethnic origin, disability, genetic information, or veteran status in any phase of its employment process, in any phase of its admission or financial aid programs, or other aspects of its educational programs or activities. The vice provost for institutional equity and diversity is the individual designated by the University to coordinate its efforts to comply with Title IX, Section 504 and other equal opportunity and affirmative action regulations and laws. Questions or concerns regarding Title IX, Section 504 or other aspects of Princeton's equal opportunity or affirmative action programs should be directed to Michele Minter, Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity, Princeton University, 205 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544 or 609-258-6110. Further, inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA - Operator: (609) 258-3000 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University