Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Committee on Regional Studies East Asia Harvard University About Values Admissions RSEA Admissions Requirements Funding FAQs Harvard College Concurrent Degree Academic Requirements Residence Courses Language Thesis People Committee Faculty Staff Students Alumni Student Resources Harvard Links News Upcoming Events RSEA Activities and Events About the RSEA Master's Degree Program The Regional Studies East Asia (RSEA) Program is a vibrant interdisciplinary area studies master's degree program designed to accommodate a wide range of interests and needs for graduate training in the languages, societies and cultures of East Asia. The program affords students interested in a professional career of engagement with Asia an opportunity to pursue a flexible and varied course of instruction related to their career interests; it also serves the needs of students who wish to enter a Ph.D. program but require further background training in the field of East Asian studies. A Master's degree in Regional Studies East Asia prepares students for careers in higher education, politics, the military, journalism, international organizations and the business and financial sectors. The RSEA program dates back to 1946, when renowned China scholar John King Fairbank launched a full-time seminar leading to a master’s degree known as Regional Studies China; the seminar was later expanded to include Japan, Korea and Vietnam, and became the A.M. program known as Regional Studies East Asia. For more than half a century, the RSEA program has had a transformative effect on the field of East Asian Studies and produced over a thousand alumni. Many of RSEA's alumni have achieved distinction in the academic world or in the world of public service. Harvard College Concurrent Degree in RSEA Harvard College students can find out more about the RSEA AB/AM Concurrent Degree opportunity by clicking here! Latest News Congratulations to the May2022 Graduates: Thursday, May 26, 2022 Congratulations to our March graduate Hannah Sng Baek! Tuesday, March 8, 2022 Congratulations to our November graduates! Tuesday, November 9, 2021 2021 Alumni Panel connects the RSEA community Thursday, October 28, 2021 More Committee on Regional Studies--East Asia Harvard University 1730 Cambridge Street, Suite 105 Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 p: (617) 495-3777 rsea@fas.harvard.edu Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement