Home System Policies & Regulations Reading Rules Develop/Update a Rule Contact Us Skip to main content Skip to footer University Rules and SAPs Texas A&M University Menu Header Right A Division of the Texas A&M University Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance System Policies & Regulations University Rules & SAPs IT Security Control Catalog Student Rules Contact Us Main Content University Rules & Standard Administrative Procedures (SAPs) Texas A&M University How to use the Rules & SAPs Library This site is your guide to the governance found in University Rules and Standard Administrative Procedures (SAPs). University Rules and SAPs are used to communicate the responsibilities, procedures, and practices that guide the operations of Texas A&M units. To understand their significance, Rules and SAPs should be read in conjunction with their related System Policies and Regulations. See the “Related Statutes, Policies, or Requirements” section near the bottom of each Rule and SAP to find the related Policy or Regulation. The Contact Office noted at the bottom of each Policy, Regulation, University Rules, or SAP is your resource for interpreting or applying requirements. System Policies & Regulations The Texas A&M University System Policy Office coordinates and facilitates the process of defining, developing, maintaining, and accessing accurate and up-to-date System Policies and Regulations. Inquiries for Policies and Regulations should be addressed to Carolyn Krenek, Manager – System Policy Office at ckrenek@tamus.edu or 979-458-6308. Rules & SAPs This is Texas A&M University’s guide to the governance found in University Rules and Standard Administrative Procedures (SAPs). This site includes information for TAMU Main Campus, Texas A&M University Health Science Center (TAMHSC), School of Law, TAMU at Galveston (TAMUG), TAMU at Qatar (TAMUQ) Higher Education Center in McAllen, and the Mays Business School at CityCentre. IT Security Controls Catalog Access to the Security Controls Catalog developed by the Division of Information Technology How to Read a Rule Provides an overview of hierarchy for Rules and SAPs and how they relate to System Policies and Regulations. Develop or Update a Rule Provides an overview of the layout and required content for Rules and SAPs and access to the standardized templates. Join Our E-Mail List Sign up for the Rules E-mail List to be notified when new Rules and SAPs are published or revised. University rule and SAP/System policy and regulation reviews The University Rule Team was established to serve as a review board for all new and revised University rules and standard administrative procedures (SAPs) and at times include new and revised System policies and regulations. In conjunction with the Rule Team, all vice presidents and college deans are sent drafts or revisions to review and comment on content, distribute to those whom they have identified as stakeholders, and provide comments to the Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance for consideration. The Rule Team is an integral part of the rule and standard administrative procedures review process. University Rule Team members include: Henry Judah Julie Kuder Dr. Patrick Louchouarn Cheryl Hanks Jane Schneider Deena McConnell Linda Newman Matt Fry Matt Walton John McCall Michael Sardaryzadeh Nalani Still Rosalie Nickles Mario Rojo Del Busto Susan Lee Tom Reber Debbie Dell Traci Cullen Dr. Valerie Balester Frequently Asked Questions 1. What is the difference between a rule and a SAP? System Policies and Regulations identify when a member rule is required. TAMU can also choose to maintain a rule or SAP, as determined by the responsible office, to provide guidance in a specific area. 2. How often should a rule or SAP be updated? Whenever there is a change in legal requirements or operating practices. At a minimum, every five years the content of a rule or SAP should be reviewed by responsible office and updated if changes have occurred since the last revision. 3. Who do I need to contact for interpretation or questions about a rule or SAP? The contact office listed at the end of the University rule or SAP should be contacted to interpret or answer questions. They have assigned responsibility and expertise over the rule and/or SAP content. 4. If I am a professor, how do I find information related to class schedules, grading, and attendance? This information is not found in University rules or SAPs. Some student related questions are located in TAMU Student rules. Others are answered in the Faculty Handbook or by the Dean of Faculties Office or the dean of your college. Site Footer Location General Services Complex Suite 2101 | 1280 TAMU 750 Agronomy Rd, #2101 College Station, TX 77843-1280 Contact Us ☎ 979-845-8116 ✉ jkuder@tamu.edu Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud