Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Home Rutgers University Pause Background Video Play Background Video Class of 2022 Al Roker’s Former Intern Makes His Mark in Meteorology and Modeling Congrats to 19,370+ Rutgers grads earning degrees, certificates, and diplomas Class of 2022 WRSU Radio Sports Director Found Calling in Broadcasting Meet the Class of 2022 Class of 2022 Tania Martinez, An Advocate for Immigrants Class of 2022 Douglass Senior Spurred to Activism to Promote Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Rutgers Overview New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Pause Background Video Play Background Video The Big Picture Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is an academic, health, and research powerhouse—with campuses located in New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden—and a statewide academic health leader. Watch Video Learn More about Rutgers New Brunswick Rutgers University–New Brunswick conducts life-changing research and offers premier education in a diverse community of ideas and change-makers to better the world. Watch Video Learn More Schedule a Visit or Tour Apply Newark Rutgers University–Newark is a leading urban research university that leverages diversity and high-impact scholarship to cultivate the talent essential to transform communities and change the world. Watch Video Learn More Schedule a Visit or Tour Apply Camden Located just minutes from Philadelphia, Rutgers University–Camden delivers groundbreaking work that impacts the world while offering its students truly experiential education in an intimate, supportive environment. Watch Video Learn More Schedule a Visit or Tour Apply RBHS/Health Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences is an academic health leader that is shaping the future of human health, pioneering breakthroughs, and integrating care to keep the world well. Watch Video Learn More Schedule a Visit or Tour Apply By the Numbers 69,000+ Students across all campuses 300 Research centers and institutes statewide 530,000 Alumni around the world People Are Asking... When do the Scarlet Knights play next? Check out the full Rutgers Athletics schedule and options for viewing or listening to gameday coverage. Visit ScarletKnights.com When does Summer Session begin? Summer Session I begins May 31, 2022 and Session II begins June 27, 2022. Visit the summer session website for more information. summersession.rutgers.edu Where can I search Rutgers jobs? Rutgers has more than 34,000 employees. In order to deliver on our mission, we're always looking for the best and brightest. We invite you to learn more about working at Rutgers. Learn More about Rutgers Jobs Is cannabis allowed at Rutgers? Cannabis remains prohibited on Rutgers property and at university events. More information is available at rutgers.edu/cannabisinfo More Information Rutgers Today More News Community First 100 Students Begin Rutgers Summer of Service Class of 2022 David Remnick to Rutgers Graduates: “You All Have a Stake in the Future of Freedom” Faculty Excellence Rutgers-Newark Professor Salamishah Tillet Receives Pulitzer Prize More News Events More Events May31 Academic Summer Session Events Tuesday, May 31, 2022, 7:00 p.m.-Friday, June 24, 2022, 6:00 p.m. May31 Showcasing Excellence Exhibitions Picturing Black Girlhood: Moments of Possibility Thursday, February 17, 2022, 12:00 p.m.-Saturday, July 02, 2022, 5:00 p.m. | Virtual Event | Exhibition at Express Newark in Newark Jun21 Board of Governors Board of Governors Annual Meeting Tuesday, June 21, 2022, 12:00 p.m.-2:00 p.m. Jun29 Academic New Jersey Research Cores Partnering Conference Wednesday, June 29, 2022, 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. | Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy BMS Auditorium , Piscataway More Events Follow Rutgers Follow Us Facebook Twitter instagram youtube linkedin Powered by Curator.io Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster