Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Share Russian Apprentice Teacher Information Apprentice Teacher Info The Russian Department encourages eligible students to participate in the Apprentice Teacher (AT) Workshop in order to learn the Drill Method and try out for an AT position in Russian. The participation of veteran ATs contributes significantly to the training of new candidates. Participation in the full workshop is required to audition for a position as an AT as well as two (2) years of college Russian or the Placement test. WHAT IS AN APPRENTICE TEACHER? Introduced in 1967, the Apprentice Teacher Program has become an important part of foreign language instruction at Dartmouth. Beginning language courses consist of master classes and drill sessions. The Apprentice Teacher (AT or Drill Instructor) "drills" students on the points they have learned in their master classes. The AT works closely throughout the term with the faculty member who teaches the master class. They are responsible for leading students in pattern drills and exercises, to practice and reinforce the grammatical points that have been taught in the master class. WHO CAN BE AN AT? ATs in the Department of Russian are Dartmouth undergraduates, but they are not necessarily language majors. They are students with two (2) years of college Russian or our Placement test, with established linguistic skills who attend an orientation, participate in a three-day training workshop prior to the start of each term, and "try-out" in front of a faculty-led jury. HOW DO YOU BECOME AN AT? Applicants for an AT position are not expected to be fluent in Russian, but must have completed the minimum requirement of Russian 29 (or took our Placement test), and must have good linguistic competence and good pronunciation and intonation. Enthusiasm, commitment and interest in language are important requirements. Each term the number of ATs selected varies according to enrollment figures and the number of Russian language sections offered by the department. RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES OF THE AT/DRILL INSTRUCTOR To carefully review the syllabus in order to know where the students are, and then to carefully review the drill print-outs before each drill session. If you are not sure of the answers, check the book for the proper conjugation and write the answer on your print-out. To begin and end all drill sessions on time and to find a substitute if you are ill. In the event of illness, contact your Master Teacher BEFORE the drill session in question. To competently drill each exercise so that all students are engaged and active during the 50 minutes. ATs do not provide grammar explanations. Refer the students to the Master Teacher for grammatical problems. Do not be pressured into giving grammar explanations. Leave this up to the Master Teacher. To meet on a weekly basis with your Master Teacher in order to review student progress. AT performance is evaluated several times a term by faculty members who visit drills. WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS OF BEING AN AT? The AT position is a paid job. ATs increase their linguistic competence (pronunciation and grammar). An AT develops useful teaching and interpersonal skills. An AT works closely with a Dartmouth Professor, with a group of language students, and with other ATs. WHEN ARE THE APPRENTICE TEACHER WORKSHOPS? Workshops take place at the beginning of the Fall, Winter and Spring terms. First-time applicants must attend the Orientation session. Please contact the Language Program Director Prof. A. Rakova at alfia.rakova@dartmouth.edu. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback