Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Victoria Somoff Academic Appointments Chair, Department of Russian Language and Literature Associate Professor of Russian Contact Victoria.Somoff@Dartmouth.edu 204 Reed Hall HB 6085 Education M.A. Donetsk State University, Ukraine M.A. University of California at Berkeley Ph.D. University of California at Berkeley Areas of Expertise Nineteenth-century Russian literature /narrative and consciousness /theory of the novel /Russian drama and theater /Bakhtin studies /folklore Selected Publications The Imperative of Reliability: Russian Prose on the Eve of the Novel, 1820s-1850s. Northwestern University Press, 2015. “Nonresistance to Fiction: Archaic Folktale vs. Later Tolstoy.” Slavic and Eastern European Journal 60:2 (Summer 2016), pp. 284-306. “Alexander Veselovsky’s Historical Poetics vs. Cultural Poetics: Remembering the Future.” Ilya Kliger and Boris Maslov, eds., Persistent Forms: Explorations in Historical Poetics, Fordham University Press, 2015. “Morals and Miracles: The Case of AT 555, The Fisherman and His Wife.” Forthcoming (2016) in Nancy Canepa, ed. Teaching Fairy Tales, Wayne State University Press. “Four is Not Fourteen: Tongue Twister Patterns and the Unmastery of Language.” Western Folklore 73:2/3 (Spring 2014), pp. 195-215. “No Need for Dogs or Women: Muteness in Turgenev’s Mumu.” Russian Literature 68, nos. 3-4 (2010): 501-520. “On the Metahistorical Roots of the Fairytale.” Western Folklore 61 (2002): 277-294. + View more Courses RUSS 13 Slavic Folklore: Vampires, Witches and Firebirds RUSS 17 Fairy Tales in Literature and Film Russian 18 Russian Drama and Theater Russian 31 Masterpieces of Russian Fiction Russian 32 Revolution, Terror, and Art Russian 71 Advanced Seminar in Russian Culture + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback