Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Lynn Ellen Patyk Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Russian Associate Editor, The Russian Review I very broadly specialize in Russian Studies, which encompasses anything having to do with Russia. But my current interests revolve around political communication in its many forms and cultural representations. Increasingly I am intrigued by tactics and devices – that is, questions of formal method and technique involved in art and politics, and the way that these develop in specific media environments and technologies. My research has engaged deeply with the Russian revolutionary movement of the 19th and early 20th century and Russian literary culture; with Dostoevsky; and with political and artistic provocation in late Imperial and early Soviet Russia. I have written about Russian revolutionary terrorism from a variety of angles: gender and the body; celebrity and the media; the history of emotions (disappointment, regret, and compassion); and religion. I am also interested in comparative Russia/U.S. studies. While our societies have been traditionally juxtaposed as polar opposites, there are many fascinating points of intersection, including the role of terrorism discourse and of the far-right media ecosystem as a conduit for Russian disinformation and propaganda. The wellspring of my scholarly interests remains the 19th century literary tradition and Fyodor Dostoevsky. I love Dostoevsky for his vast range, his philosophical and spiritual depths, and his unparalleled insights into human psychology. But also for his thrill-a-minute plots and his diabolical sense of humor. He foresaw us, he understood us, and unless we human beings radically evolve, he will always be a contemporary. Scholarly interests: political communication (terrorism, provocation, information warfare, conspiracy theories); film and media theory and history; Dostoevsky; comedy and comic performance Favorite courses taught: Russ 35 Dostoevsky and the Problem of Evil; Russ 07 Who is the Terrorist; Russ 14 The Age of Brainwashing: The History of Russian and Soviet Cinema; Russ 38.10/COLT 63.02 Modern Conspiracy. + View more Contact Lynn.E.Patyk@Dartmouth.edu 211b Reed Hall HB 6085 Education A.B. Middlebury College M.A. Stanford University (Russian and East European Studies) Ph.D. Stanford University (Slavic Languages and Literatures) Areas of Expertise Russian literature and history (19th and 20th centuries) /transnational history of terrorism /provocation and the secret police /information warfare /Dostoevsky /cognitive literary studies /social movements Selected Publications "Little Big and the Viral Gesamtkunstwerk," in Studies in Russian and Soviet Film Vol. 15 Issue 3 October 2021 “Dostoevskian Provocation and the Provocateurs Karamazov" in Slavonic and East European Review, 99 (1) January 2021, 41-70 "The Return of 'Provokatsiia' in Putin-Era Russia" Russian Review 79 (1) January 2020, 83-112 “Terrorism and Provocation in Bely’s Petersburg,” in Leonid Livak ed. A Reader’s Guide to Andrei Bely’s Petersburg (University of Wisconsin Press, 2019) "On Disappointment in Terrorism, War, and Revolution: Boris Savinkov's What Didn't Happen and Leo Tolstoy's War and Peace" (The Russian Review, January 2018). “Dostoevsky’s Terrorism Trilogy” in Peter Herman ed. Critical Concepts: Terrorism ( Cambridge University Press, 2018) Written in Blood: Revolutionary Terrorism and Russian Literary Culture, 1861-1881 (University of Wisconsin Press, 2017). “The Age of Terrorism in the Age of Literature,” in Randall Law ed. The Routledge History of Terrorism (Routledge, 2015). "Fallen Women: The Female Terrorist and/as Prostitute in the Russian Literary Tradition” in Sylvia Schraut and Christine Hikel ed. Terrorismus, Geschlecht, Gedächtnis Campus Verlag, 2012. The Byronic Terrorist: Boris Savinkov’s Literary Self-Mythologization” in Tony Anemone ed. Just Assassins? The Culture of Russian Terrorism Northwestern University Press, 2010. "Dressed to Kill and Die: Terrorism, Gender, and Dress," Jahrbuecher for die Geschichte Ost Europas 58 (2010) "Remembering 'the Terrorism': Sergei Stepniak-Kravchinsky's Underground Russia." Slavic Review (68) 4 Winter 2009. + View more Works In Progress Dostoevsky's Provocateurs (forthcoming, Northwestern University Press, Spring 2023) Raising Russia, Fighting Fear (book manuscript, estimated date of completion 2024) Funny Dostoevsky, co-edited with Irina Erman (estimated date of completion 2023) Courses RUSS 35 Dostoevsky and the Problem of Evil RUSS 38.04 Madmen, Holy Fools, and Fanatics in Imperial Russia Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback