Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Dale Perry Dartmouth Alumni Runs Emergency Aid to Ukraine PreviousNext The American entrepreneur with a business in Ukraine who pivoted to lead a grassroots humanitarian effort. Dale Perry has done as much as any American to try to empower Ukraine, but he never expected to run an emergency aid operation in the face of a Russian invasion. At age 60, Perry is no stranger to post-Soviet states and their geopolitical tensions. Raised in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, he studied Russian and engineering at Dartmouth College and traveled to the Soviet Union to spend a summer abroad in Leningrad (now St. Petersburg) in 1982. He came home with a strong desire to defend his country from what he saw as "a threatening system, from a patriotic point of view," he says, joining the U.S. Navy and serving on fast-attack submarines through the late 1980s. His Russian and engineering background later helped him land a job as a group manager for the power company AES Corp AES, -1.52%. There, he managed operations and business development in central Asia and Russia, including the biggest power plant in Kazakhstan. When Dale Perry started his long journey to the Ukraine border, he had no idea he'd be launching a humanitarian mission. As Russian forces were massing in February, Perry, the American co-owner of a Kyiv-based energy trading company, was about as far as one can travel from Ukraine, vacationing on a remote French Polynesian island. With tensions mounting, he cut the vacation short, headed back through the Seattle area, where he lives on Bainbridge Island, then to Europe, focused largely on ensuring the safety of his Ukraine-based employees. He brought a suit and tie, hoping to attend a gathering scheduled for that Friday, Feb. 25, to celebrate the arrival in Poland of a U.S. liquefied natural gas shipment bound for Ukraine. For the full article in Market Watch. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback