Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian About the banner image Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next "Standing Up for Democracy" As Ukrainian student Marta Hulievska '25 copes with the situation back home, she hopes to make a difference. Ukrainian Student Association Exhibition 10am-8pm on Fri-Sun, May 27-29 in the HOP garage (room #132, next to the Courtyard). Fulbright and DAAD Grant Recipients Announced The 13 award winners will teach, study, or conduct research around the globe. Senior Honors Theses Presentations Spring 2022 Ian Reinke and Savannah Eller successfully defended their theses on May 24, 2022. Congratulations. Annual ACTR National Post-Secondary Russian Essay Contest The Russian Department celebrated the winners of the Annual ACTR National Post-Secondary Russian Essay Contest. In this year's contest, there were 973 essays from universities across the nation. Dale Perry Dartmouth Alumni Runs Emergency Aid to Ukraine The American entrepreneur with a business in Ukraine who pivoted to lead a grassroots humanitarian effort. Dale Perry has done as much as any American to try to empower Ukraine, but he never expected to run an emergency aid operation in the face of a Russian invasion. Expanded during one conflict, Russian language and literature departments consider how they should change during another Many courses' focus on Russian president Vladimir Putin leads to the idea of a strong, unified imperial Russia, said Ainsley Morse, a Dartmouth College literature professor, Russian Department, she said. Russian studies professor assesses Putin's pretexts for the invasion of Ukraine In the latest Expert Series video, Associate Professor of Russian Studies Stuart Finkel discusses the historical revisionism Vladimir Putin is using as a pretext for the invasion of Ukraine. Russian Department's Statement Concerning Russia's War Against Ukraine The faculty of the Department of Russian Language and Literature at Dartmouth College condemns Russia's aggression against Ukraine which began in 2014 with the annexation of Crimea and has been escalated with Russia's launching a large-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian Department Mushroom Foraging Expedition! On Sunday September 26, students and professors from the Russian dept. (and elsewhere) went for a delightful romp in the early-autumn woods on and around the Appalachian Trail / Velvet Rocks area. Recent Publications view all The Fine Feats of the Five Cockerels Gang A Yugoslav Marxist-Surrealist Epic Poem for Children Aleksandar Bošković, Ainsley E. Morse Brill.Series: Avant-Garde Critical Studies, Volume: 40, 15 Mar 2022 "Little Big and the viral Gesamtkunstwerk" in Studies in Russian and Soviet Film Lynn Ellen Patyk Vol. 15 Issue 3 October 2021, 227-248 Word Play Experimental Poetry and Soviet Children's Literature Ainsley E. Morse Northwestern University Press (March 15, 2021) The Imperative of Reliability Victoria Somoff Russian Prose on the Eve of the Novel, 1820s - 1850s (Studies in Russian Literature and Theory) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback