Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share "Standing Up for Democracy" PreviousNext One of five Ukrainian students enrolled at the College, Marta Hulievska grew up in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, and traveled to the United States for the first time last fall to begin her freshman year. Now she's navigating her studies while worrying for her family's safety and joining other Ukrainian students to advocate for greater U.S. support of their country. DAM checked in with her on campus in early May. What is your hometown like? It's a city of about 800,000 people in eastern Ukraine. It's near Donetsk and Luhansk, areas that Russia occupied in 2014. My father was a lawyer for the local refugee center, and I volunteered there, and my grandmas were working as doctors for refugees. So we have been in touch with this war stuff since 2014, but I never thought my family would become refugees. Is your family still there? My father had to stay because men are not allowed to relocate. My mom, my grandmother, and my two siblings went to Lviv, in western Ukraine, on March 3. Lviv has admitted a lot of refugees from eastern Ukraine, and we have relatives there, but there are now two families living together in a two-bedroom apartment. How often do you speak to your family? I try to speak to them every day. Usually when I call my dad, he's in complete darkness because everyone has to turn off the lights after 4 p.m. If you turn on the lights, the Russian troops might see where the lights are and assume that this is a civilian area and bomb that. My city is not occupied, but the whole region around it, all the small towns and bigger towns, they're all under Russian occupation. We fear that the next step might be escalation of the conflict in my city. Before the invasion in late February, did your family have a sense that it was coming? It was pretty surprising. I remember that the news about a possible invasion—from U.S. intelligence saying Russia was gathering troops—started in December. Of course it was getting me nervous, and I was kind of scared to ask my parents about it, but I did. They were saying that [Russian President Vladimir] Putin was not going to invade. I don't know if they actually believed that or they just wanted me to believe that, but this was kind of the consensus among the Ukrainians here at Dartmouth too. No one was expecting it to happen. That was a huge shock. For the full article please click on Dartmouth Alumni Magazine. Tags: Marta Hulievska , Ukraine Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback