Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Russian Department of Russian Contact Us Facebook Russian.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Back to Top Nav Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Back to Top Nav Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Share Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Kinsey Grant proposals are reviewed by the Department of Russian at faculty meetings, twice a year: before the end of the fifth week of the fall term and before the end of the fifth week of the spring term. You should begin early enough to allow for feedback by your advisor and revision of the draft proposal (see below). Kinsey funding can be combined with other funding resources. Advisor Students intending to apply for the grant should consult with the faculty member who has agreed to endorse the project and submit to him/her a draft as soon as possible. In consultation with this faculty member, you will work to define the focus and scope of your project. Budget When your proposal is in final form, you and your advisor should work out a budget for your project. Some of the categories you might include in your budget (depending, of course, on the type of work you will be doing) are: travel, housing, meals, supplies, fees and other relevant expenses. Your budget should be realistic. You will be expected to complete your project within the financial parameters outlined in your budget. This will require that you obtain estimates from appropriate sources — travel agencies, government and academic institutions, etc. — and use them to compute what the project will actually cost. Release Form Prior to activation of ANY student Kinsey Grant, a "Release to Accept a Kinsey Grant" must be signed by the Grantee and his/her parent or legal guardian. Please see the Department Administrator for details. Guidelines to Writing Proposals Each student seeking support through the Kinsey Fund should submit, in writing, a research proposal that includes the following: A 2-4 pages description of what you plan to do with this money and how it fits into your academic plans. A bibliography. A budget of all anticipated project expenses. If you expect to affiliate with another institution, please submit a letter of invitation or support from that institution. If you are unexpectedly faced with a change of your plans, whether before or after an approved project has started, contact your faculty advisor as soon as possible to discuss the situation. Guidelines for Allowable Expenses The first guideline for what constitutes an allowable expense is your own project budget. Beyond that, and as a general rule of thumb, allowable expenses include travel to, within, and from the project site; meals and lodging; and other expenses relating directly to your project. All expenses must comply with Dartmouth College financial policies, which are governed in turn by Internal Revenue Service regulations. Please visit the Finance website to view all policies in detail. To help you gauge what is allowable and what is not, consider the following examples: Daily travel to your place of work or study on the outskirts of Moscow and back to your room in the capital is an allowable expense. A bus trip to visit another Dartmouth student staying on the other side of the city is not. The tip you give to the cab driver who brought you from the airport to your living quarters is allowable; the bribe you paid the ticket agent to get you on an earlier flight is not. Meals and lodging is a category that is interpreted very rigidly. Meals means the actual cost of breakfast, lunch and dinner, plus gratuity. Purchase of alcohol is not an allowable expense. If you have been awarded a per diem in lieu of meals, it will cover food items only. Personal expenses — e.g., deodorant, shaving cream — and other non-project-related expenses — e.g., laundry, movie, postcards to friends and family — are not allowable. Other expenses can include such things as photocopying of library materials, doctor's visits and inoculations required of travelers. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Russian Undergraduate Majors and Minors Majors: Russian Language and Area Studies Minors Courses Course Descriptions Courses by Term Placement Test Awards & Prizes The Solzhenitsyn Prize in Russian The Pray Modern Language Prize in Russian The Richard Sheldon Prize The Honors Program Foreign Study Resources & Opportunities Overview Student Assistant Teacher Opportunities Martin T. Kinsey '71 Memorial Fund for Russian Studies Preparing a Kinsey Grant Proposal Alumni Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story News & Events News & Events Lectures People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback