Skip to Content Recreation and Wellness Center Funded by the Student Government Association Home About Learn More About RWC Employment Memberships Policies Regional Recreation Staff Certifications CPR/AED Hours Aquatics Aquatics Aquatics Home Swim Lessons Lifeguard Certifications Facilities Indoor Facilities Administration Office Athletic Training Room Cardio Floor Climbing Tower Functional Training Area Group Exercise Studios MAC Gym Multipurpose Courts Outdoor Adventure Center Racquetball Courts RWC @ Downtown RWC @ Knights Plaza Weight Floor Wet Classroom Outdoor Facilities Disc Golf Course The William E. and Mary Jo Davis Recreation Area at Lake Claire Lap Pool Leisure Pool Outdoor Basketball Courts RWC Park Sand Volleyball Courts Tennis Courts Reservations Reservation Requests, Rates, and Policies Fitness Fitness Home Page Group Exercise Personal Training Fitness Assessments Fitness Special Events and Programs Outdoor Outdoor Adventure Home Page Outdoor Adventure Center Adventure Trips Climbing Tower Challenge Course The William E. and Mary Jo Davis Recreation Area at Lake Claire Sports Adaptive and Inclusive Recreation Adaptive and Inclusive Recreation Home Page Athletic Training Athletic Training Clinic Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Home Page Sport Clubs Sport Clubs Home Page Sport Clubs Staff UCF Esports Homepage View modified Memorial Day Hours! Fitness The RWC Fitness Program is comprised of several areas that include: Fitness Assessments, Group Exercise Classes, Personal Training and Fitness Programs. Our fitness facilities that feature cardio and strength areas include the RWC, RWC @ Knights Plaza and RWC @ Downtown. Additionally, the RWC hosts certification and education programs for students interested in become a personal trainer or group exercise instructor. Fitness Programs Group Exercise Group Exercise classes including Yoga, F45, Pilates, Cycle, Zumba, Hip Hop Cardio and many other aerobic and resistance classes. Group Exercise takes place at the main RWC, RWC @ Knights Plaza and RWC @ Downtown. Personal Training Personal Training is available to all students and RWC members at UCF. Sessions are 60 minutes long and the initial consultation is FREE. Fitness Assessments Free fitness assessments by a certified personal trainer are available to students and RWC members during our open hours or by appointment. Fitness Special Events and Programs The RWC offers several special events in the form of fitness programs each semester. These include our Half Marathon Training Program, MidKnight 5K, Powerlifting Competition, Cultural Dance Series, Biggest Winner, Yoga Under the Stars, Aqua Zumba and many more. View the calendar on the right hand side of this page or click the link for a full listing. Upcoming Events Aug 24 Group Exercise Mash-Up Recreation and Wellness Center Sep 1 RWC's Night of Zen Recreation and Wellness Center at Knight's Plaza: Mind & Body Studio Sep 7 Latinx Heritage Mon Recreation and Wellness Center Sep 16 Joe & Flow Recreation and Wellness Center at Knight's Plaza: Mind & Body Studio Sep 22 Yoga Under the Stars Memory Mall Oct 3 5k Training Recreation and Wellness Center More Events Upcoming Events Jun 4 Learn to Surf - 6/4/2022 Ormond Beach Jun 6 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 More Events Page Navigation Home About Hours Aquatics Facilities Fitness Outdoor Sports Contact Us Recreation and Wellness Center Phone 407-823-2408 Email ucfrec@ucf.edu University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida