Skip to Content Recreation and Wellness Center Funded by the Student Government Association Home About Learn More About RWC Employment Memberships Policies Regional Recreation Staff Certifications CPR/AED Hours Aquatics Aquatics Aquatics Home Swim Lessons Lifeguard Certifications Facilities Indoor Facilities Administration Office Athletic Training Room Cardio Floor Climbing Tower Functional Training Area Group Exercise Studios MAC Gym Multipurpose Courts Outdoor Adventure Center Racquetball Courts RWC @ Downtown RWC @ Knights Plaza Weight Floor Wet Classroom Outdoor Facilities Disc Golf Course The William E. and Mary Jo Davis Recreation Area at Lake Claire Lap Pool Leisure Pool Outdoor Basketball Courts RWC Park Sand Volleyball Courts Tennis Courts Reservations Reservation Requests, Rates, and Policies Fitness Fitness Home Page Group Exercise Personal Training Fitness Assessments Fitness Special Events and Programs Outdoor Outdoor Adventure Home Page Outdoor Adventure Center Adventure Trips Climbing Tower Challenge Course The William E. and Mary Jo Davis Recreation Area at Lake Claire Sports Adaptive and Inclusive Recreation Adaptive and Inclusive Recreation Home Page Athletic Training Athletic Training Clinic Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Home Page Sport Clubs Sport Clubs Home Page Sport Clubs Staff UCF Esports Homepage View modified Memorial Day Hours! Summer A Welcome to the RWC! GIVE TO THE RWC Contact & Hours Weather alerts: Go to RWC Facilities  Facebook  Instagram  Twitter  YouTube Upcoming Events Jun 4 Learn to Surf - 6/4/2022 Ormond Beach Jun 6 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 Jun 8 Women's EmTowerment! Recreation and Wellness Center Jun 10 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 Jun 11 Urban Exploration B Mead Botanical Garden Jun 12 Paddle with Pride - Rainbow River More Events The UCF Recreation and Wellness Center (RWC) offers UCF students opportunities to foster healthy lifestyle choices and wellness through efficient services, comprehensive programs, and high-quality facilities. Please wear a mask and get Vaccinated Beat COVID by following CDC guidelines and getting vaccinated. Your no-cost vaccine is available at a location near you, or on campus at Student Health Services. CONNECT. GET SUPPORT. FEEL BETTER. Togetherall is a free online peer-to-peer platform, offering a safe space to connect with others experiencing similar feelings. Whether you’re struggling, feeling low, or just need to talk, we can help you to explore your feelings in a supportive environment. RWC Programs Adaptive and Inclusive Recreation The RWC offers recreational opportunities for students of all abilities including adaptive sports, fitness programs, and inclusive special events. Aquatics The aquatics program features our Leisure Pool and Lap Pool and offers swim lessons, lifeguard certifications and a variety of aquatics programming. Fitness The fitness program includes Student Assisted Workout, Fitness Assessments, Fitness Orientations, Group Exercise, Personal Training, and Fitness Programs Intramural Sports Intramural Sports offers the opportunity to participate in a variety of team, dual, and individual sports. Outdoor Adventure Outdoor Adventure is a program comprised of Adventure Trips, the Challenge Course, Equipment Rentals, Climbing Tower and Lake Claire. Regional Recreation The RWC partners with SGA to extend our services to students on the Regional Campuses. Athletic Training & Risk Management The RWC offers Athletic Training services, First Aid and CPR Classes, and other helpful tools to keep you safe. Sport Clubs Sport Clubs are Registered Student Organizations that exist to promote and develop an interest in a particular sport activity. Interests may be competitive, recreational, and instructional Assumption of Risk Statement Participation in Recreation and Wellness Center programs is completely voluntary. Individuals participate at their own risk and assume responsibility for their own health and safety. The University of Central Florida and the Recreation and Wellness Center are not liable for injuries sustained during participation in a Recreation and Wellness Center-sponsored activity. It is strongly recommended that all participants consult a physician and/or have a physical exam prior to participation. The University of Central Florida does not provide personal accident/health insurance. Therefore, participants are urged to secure their own insurance. You may suffer physical and/or mental injury from participating in these activities. Other Resources Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Sport Clubs Housing and Residence Life News & Announcements UCF brings home two national flag football championships Author: Guilherme Hiray Leal Working on Mind and Body: New Outdoor Gym Opens at RWC Author: Lindsey Tellez Press Release: UCF Basketball Officiating Class Alumni Secure NBA Success Brandon Schwab and John Conley are Promoted to Permanent Staff Officials with the NBA More News Upcoming Events Jun 4 Learn to Surf - 6/4/2022 Ormond Beach Jun 6 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 More Events Page Navigation Home About Hours Aquatics Facilities Fitness Outdoor Sports Contact Us Recreation and Wellness Center Phone 407-823-2408 Email ucfrec@ucf.edu University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida