Skip to Content Recreation and Wellness Center Funded by the Student Government Association Home Registration Free Agents Sports Officiating Rules & Forms View modified Memorial Day Hours! Intramural Sports Intramural Sports offers over 60 sports leagues, special events, and one-day tournaments for both teams and individuals to play year-round. Leagues are offered at convenient times over a period of weeks and culminate with an exciting playoff format. Whether you want to play just for fun or to win the coveted IM t-shirt, we have a variety of recreational and competitive divisions based on your skill level. Ready to play? Click below to learn how to get in the game. Sign-up for Intramural Sports Free Agents Do you want to play but still need a team? Are you a captain looking for the final piece of your championship puzzle? Learn more about our Free Agent process which allows individuals to form a team at our Free Agent meetings or advertise yourself to existing teams. Sports Officiating Ready to join our team? Sports officiating is a great way to get involved and work in a flexible, rewarding job on-campus! The UCF Intramural Sports program has a proud tradition of officials who have gone on to officiate high school, college and professional sports. Interested? Visit our officiating page to learn more. Rules and Forms View our Team Captain’s Guide, Rules to our sports and fill out a variety of request forms from reinstatement requests, team change requests, and game defaults. News & Announcements Intramural Sports Officials Earn All-American Recognition Intramural Sports Officials Earn All-American Recognition Posted on Friday, January 10, 2020 @ 10:47 AM Four Intramural Sports officials traveled to Round Rock, Texas for the NIRSA National Flag Football Tournament. Kyle Pianowski, Ashley Iannizoto, Nuri Troy and Daniel Kandell each received a bid to officiate the tournament with Kyle, Nuri and Daniel each earning All-American honors. Ten officials at the tournament were given the honor for All-American, and this trio joins several past UCF officials who have earned this honor. Read More >> Contact Intramural Sports Greek Points Program Upcoming Events Jun 6 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 Jun 10 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 Jun 13 Mini Golf Registrat TBD More Events  Instagram  Twitter Tweets by IMSports Upcoming Events Jun 4 Learn to Surf - 6/4/2022 Ormond Beach Jun 6 Teqball Tournament RWC: Court 1 More Events Page Navigation Home Registration Free Agents Sports Officiating Rules & Forms Contact Us Recreation and Wellness Center Phone 407-823-2408 Email ucfrec@ucf.edu University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida