Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content College of Agriculture & Life Sciences About Welcome to RWFM External Advisory Committee Faculty & Staff Facilities Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Science in Rangeland, Wildlife, and Fisheries Management Rangeland Management Wildlife Management Aquaculture and Fisheries Management Natural Resource Management & Policy Track Wildlife Conservation and Policy Program Dr. James H. “Red” Duke Admission Requirements Course Work Supporting Science to Policy Science to Policy Projects ESSM Undergraduate Legacy Degrees WFSC Undergraduate Legacy Degrees Graduate Degrees Master’s Degree in Rangeland, Wildlife and Fisheries Management Ph.D. in Rangeland, Wildlife and Fisheries Management Graduate Admissions Graduate Policies and Academic Procedures Graduate Travel and Research Procedures Financial Support Military Land Sustainability Certificate ESSM Graduate Legacy Degrees WFSC Graduate Legacy Degrees Advising Student Support Resources Extension Extension Education Hub Giving Opportunities Education Abroad Student Organizations Job Board Research News and Events Contact Us Search Search this website Rangeland, Wildlife and Fisheries Management Research Developing applicable solutions to natural resource management needs, problems and policies. Our Science Degrees Equipping sound stewards and preparing industry leaders for careers in the public and private sector. Undergraduate Graduate Extension Disseminating science-based knowledge to landowners, industry professionals and law makers. Our Impact We are RWFM Preparing the next generation of natural resource stewards through teaching, research and engagement. Learn More Saving the Great Plains with prescribed fire, mixed grazing Rangelands in the Great Plains, and the ranchers who depend on them, are losing battles against an invasion of brush and shrubs on historical grasslands. Ranchers are under increasing stress due to changing environmental conditions and subsequent losses of rangelands to woody plants, but a relatively new management approach shows promise in turning the tide against encroaching brush and shrubs. Read More Jun 09 Pond Management and Fish Fry Jun 16 2022 Beef Cattle Series Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service-Bexar County Classroom 3355 Cherry Ridge, Ste. 208 San Antonio, TX 78230 Jun 21 I-40 East Range Meeting All Events More Information Academics Faculty & Staff Giving News and Events Job Board Employment Contact Us Department of Rangeland, Wildlife, and Fisheries Management 495 Horticulture Road, College Station, TX 778433 (979) 845-5033Contact Us © 2022 Texas A&M University. All rights reserved. Compact with Texans Privacy and Security Accessibility Policy State Link Policy Statewide Search Veterans Benefits Military Families Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Equal Opportunity Open Records/Public Information