Skip to main content Student Advisory Board Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Join 2020-2021 Agenda Ivan Allen Cup Members Summer Internship Scholarship Search Search Search Site Welcome to the IAC Student Advisory Board About Us The Ivan Allen College (IAC) Student Advisory Board meets biweekly to discuss a number of issues, including strengthening the Ivan Allen College community, enhancing our on-campus presence, building relationships between the students and faculty, and giving student feedback on curriculum and programs. Each year, the Board works on several regularly occurring processes as well as a number of evolving student initiatives. Since 2015, the Board has hosted a Freshman Kickoff event each fall to welcome new Ivan Allen students to campus and our College community. In the spring, we host Senior Focus Groups to provide academic and program feedback to the Schools within the College as they undergo re-accreditation. Some of our other activities include assisting with the Ivan Allen College Family Weekend event in the fall and volunteering at Shadow Day in the spring. The Board is composed of a total of fifteen undergraduate students: at least one from each School, no more than three students any one major, and no more than one Undecided Ivan Allen College student. Students may join the Board at any point in their academic career, and membership lasts until graduation. Our structure aims to provide a comprehensive and inclusive survey of students from all years and areas of study in order to most accurately and fairly represent the student body of the College. Our Mission Aggregate and articulate the perspectives of IAC students. Advise IAC and Georgia Tech administrators on issues affecting IAC. Build a community among IAC students, majors, and schools. Participate in IAC events & projects, and initiate student-led projects. Assist with IAC recruitment efforts. Our members strive to remain active, public, and open to happenings within the college -- from the student perspective and also given familiarity with functions within the schools. Brief History The Student Advisory Board first met in 2002. It has continued to meet biweekly since that time to provide feedback and advice to the leadership of the Ivan Allen College. The board organizes college-wide events aimed at building community among students and faculty, including research seminars, town halls, and “Fall Kickoff” for entering students. The board awards the Teacher of the Year award each spring to one permanent and one temporary faculty member and it organizes focus groups designed to assist the college in evaluating degree programs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology