Close skip to main content Close Menu Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Disability Services Campus Directory Search San Diego State University Financial Aid & Scholarships Home Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid & Scholarships A-Z Index Glossary Sitemap Videos About Us About Us Contact Us FAQs Coffee Hour AidLink Login Financial Aid Financial Aid Home Grants Loans Work Study How to Apply Eligibility Disbursement Procedures for Students in Certain Categories Rights & Responsibilities Scholarships Scholarships Home SDSU Aztec Scholarships External Scholarship Checks & ScholarShare Recruitment/Merit Scholarship Costs Eligibility Home Calculating Eligibility Expected Family Contribution Estimating your Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator University Housing Costs Cost of Attendance Tables Forms I Am A... Parent Graduate or Doctoral Student Veteran Foster Youth Division coordinator (FWS) FAQs COVID-19 Related Fall 2022 Admitted Students Current Students Withdrawals / Incompletes / CR/NC Other Topics Sending Scholarship Funds to SDSU Available Work Study Jobs CA Dream Act - AB130 & AB131 Aid for Study Abroad Aid for Summer Classes Aid for Non-Traditional Enrollment Programs ScholarShare, California’s 529 College Savings Plan Your Rights and Responsibilities San Diego State University Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu File your 2022-23 FAFSA! File your 2022-23 FAFSA as soon after Oct. 1 as possible. After you do so, you will be able to view your financial aid information and "to do list" through a new student portal called my.SDSU. Admitted students can view their financial aid eligibility now (if all required documents, if any, have been submitted). Continuing students will be able to view their eligibility in late May. VIDEO: HOW TO FILL OUT THE FAFSA Aztec Scholarships The general application in Aztec Scholarships (SDSU's online scholarship application portal) is open from Apr. 18, 2022, to Aug. 5, 2022. The priority consideration deadline is May 15, 2022. Late and incomplete applications will not be accepted. Join information webinars offered by the Student Financial Center (see dates below). MORE ABOUT SCHOLARSHIPS VIDEO: SCHOLARSHIPS File Your 2022-23 Dream Act Application File your California Dream Act Application for the 2022-23 academic year NOW! You will be able to view your financial aid information and "to do list" through a new student portal called my.SDSU. Admitted students with no items on their to-do-list can view their eligibility now. Continuing students will be able to view their eligibility in mid/late May. VIDEO: LEARN ABOUT THE CALIFORNIA DREAM ACT APPLICATION How to use AidLink Find out how to use AidLink, our online financial aid system. Log into AidLink MORE ABOUT AIDLINK Welcome to SDSU's Student Financial Center: HELP DESK Open Monday – Friday 9am-4pm (PST) We will be closed on the holidays listed on the SDSU Academic Calendar. We can help with questions related to financial aid, scholarships, and student accounts. Check out our video now! Students: please have your Red ID or Empl ID ready. Parents: make sure your student is with you or has authorized you to speak with us. FERPA regulations prevent us from speaking with you about personal financial aid information unless your student is with you, or has released authorization to you. Release of authorization is done in the "Privacy Settings" in a student's WebPortal account. This could take 24 hours to reflect on our end, so please be aware. If you prefer to connect to the Virtual Help Desk via phone, please dial: +1 (669) 900-6833. When prompted, enter the following meeting ID: 872 9357 5613 2022-23 Financial Aid Awarding, Student Financials and my.SDSU All SDSU students who filed the 2022-23 FAFSA and do not have pending items on their To-Do list can view their aid eligibility via my.SDSU. my.SDSU is a singular portal that streamlines the enrollment, registration, financial aid and student accounts processes. Via my.SDSU students are able to view Financial Aid tasks (To-Do Lists), if applicable, and take action for the Fall 2022 - Spring 2023 aid year. Students are also able to sign up for Direct Deposit via the my.SDSU Student Financials tile. Students who were previously signed up for Direct Deposit through Cashnet will need to reestablish Direct Deposit in my.SDSU. Effective Fall 2022, SDSU is also transitioning to a new post-pay model to pay tuition and fees. Students will now pay tuition & fees in my.SDSU after they have enrolled in Fall 2022 classes. The due date for all tuition and fees will be August 15, 2022. Please pay attention to emails and announcements from the Student Financial Center to stay informed about how to use my.SDSU to pay student charges. The Student Financial Center is offering webinars to educate the campus community about my.SDSU and the financial aid features available to students who have applied for 2022-23 financial aid. See dates to the right (under Webinar Series). Financial Education Peer Program: This program seeks to empower the SDSU community to make sound and responsible decisions with the goal of achieving financial well-being. This is achieved by providing education to build the necessary skills to maintain a sustainable lifestyle. This program aims to create the confidence students need to achieve financial freedom and independence. Free events as well as one-on-one educational sessions on budgeting, credit, and more are offered. Visit the Well-Being & Health Promotion website for more information. San Diego State University is following the guidelines of county, state and federal public health officials and other authorities as it continues its academic and research mission during the COVID-19 pandemic. Visit the university’s COVID-19 site and SDSU Flex site for more information. COVID-19 Resources Virtual Support and Resources for Students page SDSU Coronavirus (COVID-19) Virtual Instruction Resources for Faculty page SDSU COVID-19 Testing for Students San Diego County COVID-19 Testing Report a Positive COVID-19 Case SDSU COVID-19 Case Alert Protocol SDSU Health Commitment About Us The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships provides information and counseling so that you can make informed choices as you and your family plan for meeting the costs associated with attending San Diego State University. We also provide outreach and access services in collaboration with other university departments and the community. No appointment is needed to speak with a counselor. Contact a financial aid and scholarship counselor. The Student Financial Center is offering the following information Sessions: 2022-2023 Financial Aid Awarding, Verification & Document Submission via my.SDSU Stay Tuned: sessions will be offered June. Aztec Scholarships (Virtual) Wednesday, June 15, 2022, 12-1 p.m. (PST) - Theme: There's Still Time to Apply Wednesday, July 13, 2022, 5-6 p.m. (PST) - Theme: General Application Deadline Coming Soon Click here for sessions about other topics. Miss a session? Click the button below to view videos of past sessions offered. Watch Past Video Sessions Login to AidLink SDSU federal school code: 001151 Videos and Tutorials Find videos and tutorials to help you complete your applications and receive aid! Watch the Video What is the difference between loans, work study, grants and scholarships? A loan must be repaid to the lender, plus interest. Income from a work study job is earned by students hired to work, and it is taxable. Grants and scholarships do not have to be repaid. Economic Crisis Response Team Visit the ECRT website to request assistance if you or a student you know has an immediate, temporary food or housing need. AidLink: a secure online account that gives you 24-7 access to your financial aid and scholarship records and applications. FAFSA Overview: Free Application for Federal Student Aid. All SDSU students should complete the FAFSA to be considered for all types of state and federal aid including grants, work study, student and parent loans, and some scholarships. Financial Aid: Learn about types of aid, your eligibility, how to apply, how to get your funds, and how to estimate your cost of attendance at SDSU. Scholarships: Learn about scholarships available through SDSU and about non-SDSU scholarships: how to apply, eligibility, essay writing tips, and more. Satisfactory Academic Progress: Learn about your responsibility to maintain satisfactory academic progress, and how your grades, units, and enrollment affect the financial aid you receive. Disbursement, Receiving Your Aid: Disbursement means the payment of money. Find out about how and when your financial aid and/or scholarship money is paid to you. CONTACT INFORMATION Financial Aid & Scholarships San Diego State University 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182-7436 OFFICE LOCATION: Student Services West, Room 3615 DOCUMENT DROP: Third-floor patio window, accessible 24 hours Counselors can be reached via the Student Financial Center Virtual Help Desk (see hours above). Be prepared to share your Name and Red ID. Parents, please make sure your student released authorization for us to speak with you. For Student Account Services/billing inquiries email: [email protected] VIA AIDLINK: The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships will primarily communicate with you via AidLink. Be sure to check your account regularly. Log in to AidLink for immediate answers to your questions about your financial aid and scholarship applications. FINANCIAL AID AidLink Grants Loans Work Study Apply for Financial Aid Eligibility Financial Aid Disbursement Procedures for Students in Certain Categories Rights & Responsibilities SCHOLARSHIPS SDSU Aztec Scholarships External Scholarship Checks & Scholarshare Recruitment/Merit Scholarship OTHER INFO Forms A-Z Index Contact Us About Us Site Map Chip Pierce, Director of the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Rose Pasenelli, Assistant Vice President of the Student Financial Management Center Facebook Twitter Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Services West, Room SSW-3615 5500 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA 92182-7436 SDSU Directory Maps Parking Contact Us Copyright © 2020 San Diego State University Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Feedback Campus Safety Plan Main Campus Security Report Imperial Valley Campus Security Report Last Update: July 18, 2016 Document Reader Last Updated 5/26/22