Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Be Safe Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Be Safe Facebook Twitter Search Search Search Search Who We Are Expand Campus Safety Staff Campus Safety and Security Committee Emergency Management Environmental Heath & Safety (EHS) Fire Prevention Services Resources Expand Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Building Access and Security Campus Services Counseling & Mental Health Center Safety Tips & Apps Scooter Rules SURE Walk Weather Alerts University Health Services UT Night Rides Emergency Communication Tools Emergency Info Expand News Expand Contact Expand Welcome to Campus Safety The University of Texas at Austin Office of Campus Safety provides Emergency Management, Environmental Health & Safety, and Fire Prevention Services, along with other public safety services to create a safe and secure environment for university students, staff, faculty, and visitors. This unit analyzes, prepares for, protects from, and responds to potential hazards and safety risks in order to promote the well-being and continuity of the university environment and operations. featured-ehs-student-creek-cleanup-500x333.jpg Environmental Health & Safety featured-fire-prevention-500x333.jpg Fire Prevention Services featured-preparedness-communications-500x333.jpg Emergency Management Sign Up for Emergency Text Alerts on Your Phone The University of Texas at Austin and Emergency Management employ a wide variety of tools, including text messaging, to make sure everyone on campus is informed during an emergency event. This system will send a text message to the number you provide in the event of an emergency event. Sign Up Now Important Emergency Information & Resources During an emergency or technical outage at the university, please refer to this information for updates, additional assistance, and communication outlets. For details on how to respond during an emergency event, refer to the university's safety protocols. Updates on situations will be posted regularly on the emergency site. View Emergency Page 2020 Annual Campus Safety Report The 2020 annual safety report, released by the Office of Campus Safety, is now available to view. Learn what UT is doing to keep our campus a safe environment. View Report Executive Compliance Committee Report on Campus Security Initiatives March 24, 2017 Read Message Thank You For Feedback On Our Winter Storm Response Dear students, faculty and staff, As the UT Austin community strives to move forward following the severe weather event we experienced in February, the Office of Campus Safety learned about your experiences whether you were in a university building or remote location. We wanted to gather your feedback on how the university responded to the emergency situation. Your participation helped us seek improvement on our emergency response processes. Thank you for your valuable input. The Office of Campus Safety The University of Texas at Austin Safety and Security Update, May 2019 The University of Texas Police Department (UTPD) and the Office of Campus Safety work in partnership to continuously evolve and enhance safety measures on and around campus. We regularly pause to update the campus community on our progress as part of our commitment to strategically implement recommendations, form partnerships and realize other efforts to help our campus community feel secure and protected. The following are highlights from the 2018-19 school year; we could not do this without the help of our fellow Longhorns. Learn More Campus Safety UT Austin Office of Campus Safety UTAustinSafety Your actions really do make a difference! Small things like dumping your drink in a storm drain or not picking up y… https://t.co/aN9UQ6HwNH 1 week ago reply2 retweet star retweetUT Austin Office of Campus Safety Retweeted NWS Austin/San Antonio NWSSanAntonio Rainfall chances will increase today beginning in the west before spreading east. Rain chances remain elevated thro… https://t.co/evnaGDpE8O 1 week ago reply2 retweet starView All Help in a Crisis Emergencies: Call 911 UT Police | 512-471-4441 Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCAL) | 512-232-5050 For referrals, options, and strategies when you're concerned about someone's behavior or actions or for COVID advice and questions. Report Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination Be Safe UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022