Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Campus Safety Services (215) 204-1234 Main, Ambler, and HSC Emergency Line 911 All Other Emergencies Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team ≡ Menu Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team You are here Home / About Us / Our Announcements Our Announcements Temple University Police Department’s K9 Chandler has received a bullet and stab protective vest thanks to a charitable donation from non-profit organization Vested Interest in K9s, Inc. The vest was sponsored by Mozart Lodge 436 F. & A.M. of Philadelphia, PA and embroidered with the sentiment “Gifted by Mozart Lodge No. 436 F. & A.M.”. Vested Interest in K9s, Inc. is a 501c(3) charity located in East Taunton, MA whose mission is to provide bullet and stab protective vests and other assistance to dogs of law enforcement and related agencies throughout the United States. The non-profit was established in 2009 to assist law enforcement agencies with this potentially lifesaving body armor for their four-legged K9 officers. Since its inception, Vested Interest in K9s, Inc. provided over 3,100 protective vests in 50 states, through private and corporate donations, at a value of $5.7 million dollars. The program is open to dogs actively employed in the U.S. with law enforcement or related agencies who are certified and at least 20 months of age. New K9 graduates, as well as K9s with expired vests, are eligible to participate. The donation to provide one protective vest for a law enforcement K9 is $950.00. Each vest has a value between $1,744 – $2,283, and a five-year warranty and an average weight of 4-5 lbs. There is an estimated 30,000 law enforcement K9s throughout the United States. For more information or to learn about volunteer opportunities, please call 508-824-6978. Vested Interest in K9s, Inc. provides information, lists events, and accepts tax-deductible donations of any denomination at www.vik9s.org or mailed to P.O. Box 9 East Taunton, MA 02718. In This Section Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team Temple University Campus Safety Services 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Maps and Directions Cherry & White Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube About Us TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2014, Temple University. All rights reserved.