Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Campus Safety Services (215) 204-1234 Main, Ambler, and HSC Emergency Line 911 All Other Emergencies Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team ≡ Menu Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team You are here Home / Emergency Preparedness Emergency Preparedness The Office of Emergency Management is dedicated to preparing for, mitigating against, responding to and recovering from critical incidents and disasters that may impact our Temple community. By building a culture of preparedness within the university, we aim to facilitate adaptability and foster resilience to disruptions and stressors of any kind. Our website serves as a resource for information on how to prepare for emergencies, get involved in preparedness activities, learn about what you can do to build personal resilience, and understand what actions to take during an emergency situation. We issue a monthly newsletter and host interactive training and events on campus, and we hope you will choose to get involved by becoming more TUready! Get Educated Learn more about preparedness, emergency procedures and what you need to know to be TUready at Temple. Get Trained Further your own personal preparedness by attending interactive training opportunities and information sessions. Get Involved Join the TUready community by being part of a Building Emergency Management Team, Volunteer Response Corps, and other opportunities. Mission Continuity Program Learn more about how your department can become more resilient to disruptions. OEM Calendar Our calendar is a place where you can find scheduled events, training, and opportunities to get involved with the TUready program. Contact Us Connect with us on social media and sign-up for our newsletter to get the latest updates. In This Section Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us Temple University Campus Safety Services 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Maps and Directions Cherry & White Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube About Us TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2014, Temple University. All rights reserved.