Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Campus Safety Services (215) 204-1234 Main, Ambler, and HSC Emergency Line 911 All Other Emergencies Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team ≡ Menu Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team You are here Home / Emergency Preparedness / Get Involved Get Involved We welcome you to become part of the TUready community here at Temple! Join us in our effort to build a culture of preparedness and a disaster-resilient university. The Building Emergency Management Team (BEMT) is a critical force of staff, faculty and students who guide the community during emergency procedures. Anyone can become part of the BEMT, and we host special skills training, social events and an annual banquet to develop relationships and enhance collaboration. During real-world emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, we sometimes need to look to our campus community for volunteers. Temple University would need volunteers for various kinds of emergency activations, such as mass sheltering, vaccine or medical distribution, and disaster mental health outreach. We welcome faculty, staff and students to learn more about how to join a roster of volunteers for disasters and emergencies that impact Temple. Other opportunities to get involved with the TUready community at Temple include volunteering for preparedness events, such as the TUready Fair or Resilience Fair, being part of emergency functional exercises, including active assailant scenarios and public health emergency simulations, and joining in on other special sessions. Building Emergency Management Team (BEMT) The BEMT is made up of university staff and faculty volunteers who help guide members of the Temple community during emergency procedures such as evacuation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown. Emergency Volunteers Volunteers are called upon during real-world emergencies, including mass vaccination, mass sheltering or disaster responses. All members of the Temple community are welcome to volunteer with us. Other Ways to Get Involved Volunteering for disaster simulations, functional exercises and community preparedness events are all ways that you can get involved with the TUready program. Join us in our effort to build a culture of preparedness at Temple. In This Section Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Building Emergency Management Team Emergency Volunteers Other Ways to Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us Temple University Campus Safety Services 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Maps and Directions Cherry & White Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube About Us TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2014, Temple University. All rights reserved.