Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Campus Safety Services (215) 204-1234 Main, Ambler, and HSC Emergency Line 911 All Other Emergencies Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team ≡ Menu Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team You are here Home / About Us / Mission Statement Mission Statement MISSION STATEMENT We, the members of the Temple University Department of Public Safety, are committed to excellence. Our team of diverse and trained professionals is committed to nurturing a safe and desirable space for those who live, work and visit. We build partnerships to solve problems and improve public safety in a manner that is consistent, impartial, and transparent. Vision Statement Temple University Department of Public Safety aspires to establish an environment for its community that is conducive to quality living, learning and working, We will accomplish this as a result of our level of professionalism, service, and excellence. We will distinguish ourselves as a leader in public safety, grounded in core principles and driven by innovative solutions. Core Principles 1. Integrity: Integrity depends on consistently doing what is right, meaning that which is in the best interest of the organization and of others. 2. Professionalism: We will be professional in our daily actions, behavior, and performance and maintain high standards of training and expertise by keeping abreast of new trends, standards, and technology in the field of public safety. 3. Respect: We recognize the authority we hold and will treat others as we would like to be treated. We faithfully, and without bias, honor our obligations to the community. 4. Competence: We are skilled professionals, exhibiting a quiet confidence in the performance of our duties; demonstrating adaptability to all situations, accompanied by a desire for continuous improvement. 5. Customer Service: We will deliver to our community a high quality of service that is fair, courteous, responsive, and efficient. We also recognize the need to involve the community as partners in creating a secure and safe environment. Mission Statement In This Section Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team Temple University Campus Safety Services 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Maps and Directions Cherry & White Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube About Us TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2014, Temple University. All rights reserved.