Skip to main content Main navigationMain content University of Minnesota http://twin-cities.umn.edu/ 612-625-5000 Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU : For Students, Faculty, and Staff COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Response Safe Campus Alcohol & Drug Abuse Prevention Crime, Threats & Violence Health Emergency Mental Health Sexual Misconduct Prevention Transportation Safety Workplace & Lab Safety Menu Safety on Campus The safety of students, faculty, staff, and visitors is our top priority. That’s why, across the University of Minnesota Twin Cities campus, we engage in wide-ranging safety efforts. And it’s why we partner with local communities to help keep our off-campus neighborhoods safe. In all of these efforts, everyone has a role to play. Here you will find the information you need to help maintain our U of M culture of safety. Safety Tips Working together, we can all foster a safer climate on and near campus. As individuals, please observe these tips to help ensure your personal safety and security. More tips. Bike with the Traffic Ride your bike with the traffic, in the bike lane. And in designated areas, dismount and walk. Stop the Spread of COVID-19 Wear a face covering. Don’t Twist When carrying a load, turn with your entire body (including your feet). SEXUAL MISCONDUCT STOPS WHEN YOU STEP UP The President’s Initiative to Prevent Sexual Misconduct promotes a University environment that is safe and free from sexual harassment, violence and other sexual misconduct. Learn more. Additional Safety InformationEmergency NotificationsSafety Partners and ProceduresDownload Posters and AssetsM Safe Safety Contacts Campus police Emergencies: 911 Non emergencies: 612 624-COPS (2677) Email: [email protected] Safe Walk 612-624-WALK (9255) Aurora Center for Advocacy and Education 24 hour help-line: 612-626-9111 Boynton Health Nurse Line 612-625-7900 For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop My U © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement Alcohol & Drug Abuse Prevention Crime, Threats & Violence Health Emergency Mental Health Sexual Misconduct Prevention Transportation Safety Workplace & Lab Safety