Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Campus Safety Services (215) 204-1234 Main, Ambler, and HSC Emergency Line 911 All Other Emergencies Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team ≡ Menu Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team You are here Home / Services & Programs / Events Events Each year, the Department of Campus Safety Services organizes and co-sponsors a variety of community outreach initiatives. These events are opportunities to connect with our affiliates, as well as conduits for us to highlight our commitment to inclusion and service. During 2020 and 2021, many of our events have been modified to adhere to current COVID-19 protocols. Neighborhood BBQ provides an opportunity for students living in the area adjacent to Main Campus to interact with community leaders and neighbors. Creating an atmosphere of mutual respect facilitates a path of open dialogue and positive resolution as issues may arise throughout the year. Welcome Wagon promotes positive community living among students and residents living in the neighborhoods adjacent to Main Campus. Welcome Wagon volunteers distribute recycling bins and discuss tips for positive community living (e.g., local ordinances and civic responsibility). National Campus Safety Awareness Month disseminates information to residential students and new tenants about safety strategies and resources on campus and in the area. Activities include residence hall programming, resources fairs and campus campaigns to emphasis the importance of being alert, aware and informed. The Tour de Shore Bike Ride is a community fund-raiser event hosted by the Irish Pub to benefit childhood charitable endeavors. In July we organize a team of student, employees and associates to participate in the 65-mile bike tour from 20th and Walnut streets in Philadelphia to the Irish Pub & Inn in Atlantic City. 5K Run/1 Mile Fun Walks are conveniently scheduled at lunchtime and serves as a great way for students and employees at the Main Campus to take a break from routine and get out for exercise and socialization. Avenue of the Treats enables neighborhood children to have a fun-filled, safe area to celebrate Halloween, wear their favorite costumes and participate in a variety trick-or-treating activities. Coordinated by representatives from Beech Interplex Inc., the Office of Community Services, Campus Safety Services and student organizations, this popular event relies on teamwork and communication to create a phenomenal experience for everyone. Thanksgiving Outreach Project embodies the ideals of making a difference and enriching our community through service. Representatives from Temple Police, student organizations and local clergy provide Thanksgiving meals to families of our surrounding communities who are in need. Community Holiday Celebration is hosted by our department and connects our community neighbors with our campus community in the spirit of holiday season. Temple staff and students donate their time and talents to provide food, prizes, decorations and entertainment for more than 300 children and their families. This gathering initiatives the opportunity for everyone to feel empowered by what we share with each other. For more information or to volunteer to assist with an event, contact Eileen Bradley, community liaison, at eileen.bradley@temple.edu or 215-204-2182. In This Section Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Temple University Campus Safety Services 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Maps and Directions Cherry & White Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube About Us TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2014, Temple University. All rights reserved.