Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Campus Safety Services (215) 204-1234 Main, Ambler, and HSC Emergency Line 911 All Other Emergencies Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team ≡ Menu Services & Programs Services Programs Events Main Campus Patrol Map Reports & Logs Crime Log Annual Security Report Clery Compliance Disposition Definitions Megan's Law Safety Awareness Strategies Safety by Design Safety Tips Safety Videos Emergency Preparedness Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us About Us Our Announcements Our Team Mission Statement Contact Us Support Team Safety Connections/Resources Customer Service Join Our Team You are here Home / Emergency Preparedness / Mission Continuity Program Mission Continuity Program Disruptions to campus operations can happen at any time. We need to be prepared to pivot. Temple University is a large and complex institution with many important facets to our mission. As an Institution of higher education, we are responsible for educating our students, contributing to groundbreaking research, maintaining the physical environment of our property, ensuring our financial health and providing clinical services to our community. Because we know that disruptions to any of these mission areas can happen at any time, we need to be prepared to continue forward regardless of what may occur. Our 5 Primary Mission Areas Academics Clinical Research Business Operations Temple University is committed to taking an innovative, forward-thinking approach to continuity planning. Our primary goal is to facilitate planning for any and all disruptions that may occur. No central, universitywide plan will be adequate to cover the diverse needs of all of our schools, colleges, administrative units and support services. We need your help. Help us add value by being a guide, a support and a partner in the continuity planning process. Enhance the capabilities of your department so that your team will be adaptable in the face of any circumstances and continue the mission of Temple University. Please contact us today to find out more about how we can work together to increase your readiness. In This Section Get Educated Get Trained Get Involved Mission Continuity Program Contact Us Temple University Campus Safety Services 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Maps and Directions Cherry & White Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube About Us TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2014, Temple University. All rights reserved.