Skip to content MenuClose Action navigation Utility navigation Primary navigation Highlights of Graduation Day Sanford Launches the Class of 2022 Graduation Stories David Marshall Returned After 20 Years to Earn His Degree Faces@50 Alumni Stories Loading... Previous Congratulations to Our Graduates! Highlights of Graduation DayWatch Video Short Next Loading... Previous 2022 Graduation Sanford Launches the Class of 2022Read a Recap Next Loading... Previous Class of 2022 Graduation StoriesMeet a few of the graduates Next Loading... Previous 2022 Graduation Stories David Marshall Returned After 20 Years to Earn His DegreeRead story Next Loading... Previous 50 Years of Public Policy at Duke Faces@50 Alumni StoriesVisit the 50th Website Next Homepage Programs We Offer Undergraduate The Sanford School of Public Policy is a vibrant, dynamic community of thinkers and doers who are dedicated to leaving the world a better place. More information about the undergraduate program. Browse FAQs Master of Public Policy Our two-year, professional Master of Public Policy (MPP) program offers students outstanding preparation for dynamic careers as analysts, leaders and managers at various levels of government, nonprofits and corporations – both domestically and internationally. More information about the MPP program. Apply to the MPP program. Master of International Development Policy The Master of International Development Policy (MIDP) is a flexible interdisciplinary degree program focused on early to mid-career professionals who will dedicate their careers to policymaking and public service in developing countries. The program is run by the renowned Duke Sanford Center for International Development. More information about the MIDP program. Apply to the MIDP program. Master of Environmental Policy The four-semester, 16-course international Master of Environmental Policy (iMEP) is an international program that is designed to meet the growing global need for leaders who are versed in both Chinese and international environmental issues and policies. It is based at Duke Kunshan (China). Many students spend a semester at Duke's campus in Durham, NC and take classes at the Nicholas School of the Environment and the Sanford School of Public Policy. More information about the iMEP program. Apply to the iMEP program. Master of National Security Policy The Master of National Security Policy program is a one-year program for those working in national security – government, military, defense or consulting – to help advance your career and skills. Achieve your ambitions in just one year while continuing to work. The program is for those currently working in national security who have at least seven years of work experience. More information about the Master of National Security Policy program. PhD The PhD in Public Policy at Duke University enables students to collaborate with Duke’s top-rated faculty in public policy and with Duke’s departments of economics, political science and sociology. Most students pursue research with the goal of working in domestic and international public agencies, research organizations and policy consulting firms. Others seek academic positions in public policy, public administration and policy-oriented schools. More information about the PhD program. Apply to the PhD program. 2022 Terry Sanford Leadership Award Winner Olivia Reneau She’s got “the kind of magic that we associate with people like Terry Sanford." 2022 Terry Sanford Leadership Award Winner Shrey Majmudar He’s a “once in a generation talent.” 2022 Graduation Stories Ysanne Spence After graduation, Ysanne Spence PPS'22 plans to enact change in her home country of Jamaica. 2022 Graduation Stories Alan Medina "I keep telling my friends and family that Sanford is the best school in the world." What can you do with a public policy degree? 2022 Graduation Stories Rhea Ninan Rhea Ninan MPP'22 is committed to using public policy to elevate the standard of life for all. Research Themes Image Energy & Environment Image Health Policy Image International development Image Media & Democracy Image Security Policy Browse Key ThemesSee more Image Social Policy Image Technology Policy Centers & InitiativesExplore Recent News View More Stories Upcoming Events View more events Announcements View more announcements Loading... Faces@50 Alumni Profiles What can you do with a degree in public policy? Find out! Explore stories from our '50 Years of Public Policy at Duke' celebration!Browse Alumni Stories Loading... Master's Programs Explore our rigorous programs. We offer several areas of focus. Master's Programs Loading... Doctoral Programs Pursue your PhD with some of the most renowned researchers in the country. PhD Program Loading... Executive Programs Find programs for mid-career and senior-level professionals - policy/leadership focus. Executive Education Sanford School of Public Policy 201 Science DriveDurham, NC 27708 (919) 613-7401 Footer navigation Make a Gift Sanford's Intranet FacebookTwitterInstagramYouTubeLinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Duke University Privacy Statement