Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home More from us... Demo Link Search UC Riverside Institutional Research Search Home Campus Statistics Admission Admission: Graduate Admission: Undergraduate Enrollment Enrollments: UCR Enrollments: Demographic Enrollments: Programs Student Outcomes First-Time, Full-Time Frosh Retention Rates First-Time, Full-Time Frosh Graduation Rates Transfer Retention and Graduation Rates Graduate Retention and Graduation Rates Time to Degree Degrees Awarded Ph.D. Job Placement Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Faculty Workload Postdoctoral Positions IR SmartQuery UCR Internal User Common Data Set (CDS) Reports Resources Staff UCR Home More from us... Demo Link Breadcrumb Campus Facts at a Glance Enrollment Student Demographics Graduation Rates Degrees Awarded Faculty and Staff Counts represent distinct students who are enrolled in credit-bearing classes as of the fall third-week census. Percentages represent the proportion of distinct students who are enrolled in credit-bearing classes as of the fall third-week census. Underrepresented minority (URM) students include those who identify as Native American, Black/African American, Chicano/Latino, or Pacific Islander. Figures for low-income and first-generation status are based, respectively, on students' family income and parental education levels, as self-reported at application time. These measures include undergraduate students only. Medical residents are not included. Percentages represent the share of the cohort starting in the indicated fall term that graduated within the specified time. Graduation rates are cumulative and are measured through the final summer of the corresponding year. Counts represent degrees earned between summer and spring of the years indicated (i.e., leading summer). For students earning multiple degrees within a single measurement period (e.g., double majors), each degree awarded is included in the count. Counts represent unduplicated headcounts for UCR employees as of the October payroll. Employees holding multiple positions are counted under what IR considers their primary job title. Counts exclude student employees. Medical residents are counted as non-faculty academic employees. About Us Institutional Research supports UC Riverside with modeling, analysis, and reports to inform campus decision-making. We are the source of many official UCR statistics related to students, faculty, and staff. Please visit our Campus Statistics page for interactive dashboards and data downloads, or contact us at ir@ucr.edu if you have a request or question not covered by our web tools. New Features Looking for specific information on enrollments, degrees awarded, or graduation rates at UCR? Explore the data using SmartQuery, an interactive data tool that produces customized tables and plots based on your search terms. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Institutional Research 2144 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-3296 fax: (951) 827-4357 email: ir@ucr.edu Find Us Follow US: Visit UCR's Facebook page Follow UCR on Twitter Visit UCR's YouTube channel Subscribe to UCR News via RSS Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel