Skip to Content Student Academic Resource Center Student Learning and Academic Success Home About Resources Employment Contact Feedback Home Phone Mon-Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Phone 407-823-5130 Email sarc@ucf.edu Location Trevor Colbourn Hall, Room 117 Tips for Online Academic Success  Facebook  Instagram  Twitter  YouTube Welcome to SARC! We are the learning center on campus where students can access high-quality academic support programs and services, which you can read about below. All of our offerings help UCF students develop college-level study skills and achieve the highest standard of academic excellence. SARC Services Peer Tutoring Group Peer Tutoring Tutoring Schedule Downtown Schedule Tutoring WordPress Resource SARC provides free small group peer tutoring to students enrolled in selected undergraduate courses offered each semester at UCF. Peer tutoring sessions take place at 3 locations: SARC at Trevor Colbourn Hall (TCH) 117, SARC@CECS in the Engineering II Atrium, and SARC@UCF Downtown in the Dr. Phillips Academic Commons (DPAC), Room 330. Some tutoring sessions are hosted online through Zoom and also at UCF’s Downtown campus. No appointment is necessary. One-on-One Peer Tutoring One-on-One Peer Tutoring Sign-up Spring 2022 - Available Courses List Spring 2022 - Downtown Courses List Individual (One-on-One) peer tutoring is available for students enrolled in selected undergraduate courses. These tutoring sessions are one hour in length and take place exclusively online. Appointments are required and must be scheduled online in advance. Please note that you can only make appointments for classes we offer in which you are currently enrolled. For a list of the classes we support, see the “Spring 2022 Available Courses List” link above. Supplemental Instruction (SI) SI Schedule SI WordPress Resource Supplemental Instruction (SI) provides a series of weekly study sessions for students taking historically difficult courses. In SI, you will be guided through course material by your SI leader, a student who has taken the course and earned an “A.” SI Leaders attend the courses they support and use their knowledge to help you master course content and develop effective study skills. Academic Coaching & Engagement (ACE) ACE Sign-up In the (ACE) Program, academic coaches help students develop important academic and life skills such as organization, time management, study skills, online learning, and goal setting. ACE coaches can meet with students regularly throughout the semester to provide students the opportunity to check in on their progress, stay accountable for the goals and action plans devised in previous sessions, and become more engaged in campus life and organizations. Academic Success Workshops Workshop Schedule Workshop Recordings Each semester SARC provides all UCF students an opportunity to continually enhance their learning and study skills through a series of Academic Success Workshops. Topics include test preparation, time management, textbook reading, note-taking, and more. Workshops are live streamed and recorded via the link in the schedule then uploaded to the SARC YouTube channel. Other Resources Services SARC Online Knights Academic Resource Services News & Announcements No news articles at this time. More News Events Page Navigation Home About Resources Employment Contact Feedback Contact Us Student Academic Resource Center Phone 407-823-5130 Email sarc@ucf.edu Location Trevor Colbourn Hall, Room 117 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).