Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Student Accessibility Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Accommodate Hearing Accommodation DSO About SAS Contact & Location Information Meet the Staff Mission Accommodation Legislation Tom Harkin Speech FAQ Students who are at High-risk for COVID-19 and/or not able to tolerate a Face Covering New Students Making the Transition to ISU Applying for Accommodations Documentation Guidelines Housing Accommodations Dietary Accommodations Assistance Animals Accommodations Temporary Health Conditions Additional Resources Current Students Returning Students Campus Accessibility Assistive Technology & Resources Scholarships Campus Resources Accommodations Academics Access to Lecture Notes Assistance Animals Housing & Dining Housing Dietary Medical Parking Permits Request Forms Interpreting/Transliteration/Captioning Request Form Text To Speech Request Form/Kurzweil Text to Speech: Upload Proof of Purchase Student Resources Campus Accessibility Grievance Process Deaf and/or Hard of Hearing Captioned Media Request Form Exam Accommodation Center Exam Accommodations Center Exam Accommodations Referral Form Exam Upload Information For Students Schedule exams through the Accommodate Student Portal Low Distraction Setting vs Private Room Print Exam in Canvas Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Accommodation Resources Procedures Captioned Media Captioned Media Request Form Syllabus Statement Exam Accommodations Center (EAC) Referral Form Important Announcements Assistance Animals Assistance Animals on Campus FAQs Introduction The information below explains Iowa State University’s (ISU) general information and procedures related to the use of Assistance Animals in providing disability accommodations to students, faculty, staff, and visitors to university buildings and on university property. The underlying “Assistance Animals” policy is located in ISU Policy Library. ISU is committed to ensure that programs are free from discrimination and harassment based upon protected class, including physical and/or mental disability. Definitions In order to understand this policy and related procedures, it is important to have a clear understanding of the terms referenced. Below find several key definitions or on the Assistance Animals Policy. Assistance Animal: A general term referring to any animal providing accommodation to an individual with a disability. As used within this policy, an assistance animal may be either a service animal or an emotional support animal. Assistance Animals are not considered pets. Service Animal: A service animal is individually trained to do specific work or perform tasks for the benefit of a person with a disability, including but not limited to physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disabilities. The specific work or tasks performed by the service animal for the benefit of the individual must be directly related to the individual´s disability. Emotional Support Animal: An emotional support animal is any species of animal providing emotional support, well-being, or comfort that eases one or more identified symptoms or effects of a disability. Pet: A pet is any animal kept for ordinary use and companionship. Resident: Any ISU student residing in university housing and/or paying guests registered for university guest or conference housing operated by the Department of Residence (DOR). Making a Request to have an Assistance Animal on Campus All emotional support animals must be authorized to be on ISU campus as indicated below. We appreciate being informed about the presence of all assistance animals on campus. Student and visitor accommodation requests will be reviewed/assessed by Student Accessibility Services (SAS) consistent with applicable laws and policies. To make a request to have an Emotional Support Animal in student housing: Students with a contract for ISU housing must submit a request to the ISU Department of Residence (DoR). Please complete the Housing and Dining Accommodation Request Form and Animals in Residence Agreement Form after reviewing the Housing Accommodation website for more information. Students will be required to work with their veterinarian to provide information about the animal's health. Students need to work with their medical professional to secure their response to the Reasonable Accommodation Verification Form for Emotional Support Animals in Department of Residence Housing to assist us in eligibility determination. Please review these important notes on Assistance Animals Documentation prior to meeting with your healthcare provider. Student Accessibility Services will communicate your need for the accommodation to the Department of Residence after eligibility can be determined. The Department of Residence will inform you of any needed next steps before your ESA may come to campus housing. Emotional Support Animals are only permitted in ISU housing after specific approval has been granted by ISU Department of Residence and only after proper processes have been followed. Approved ESA are not permitted elsewhere on campus; libraries, offices, classrooms, dining halls, labs, etc. SAS may be contacted via phone at 515-294-7220 or by emailing accessibility@iastate.edu. Information for students and visitors regarding Assistance Animals. Employee accommodation requests will be reviewed by University Human Resources Employee Relations/Labor Relations (UHR ER/LR). Questions pertaining to an employee’s assistance animal (including requests to use a service animal as an accommodation) may be directed to UHR ER/LR at 515-294-4800 or 877-477-7485. Frequently Asked Questions The U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions about Service Animals and the ADA. Dean of Students Office Student Accessibility Services 1076 Student Services Building 2505 Union Dr Ames, IA 50011-2030 accessibility@iastate.edu 515-294-7220 Exam Accommodation Center 1200 Hixson-Lied Student Success Center 215 Beach Road Ames, IA 50011-1400 examaccommodations@iastate.edu 515-294-5197 Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information