Tulane Center of Excellence: Sex-Based Biology & Medicine Home About Leadership Investigators Enrichment Curriculum Bootcamp Seminars Workshops Annual Symposium Research Current Projects Past Projects Resources Events Links References News SBM News Publications Support Funding Donate Our Mission The Tulane Center of Excellence in Sex-Based Biology & Medicine (TCESBM) seeks to advance knowledge on how biological sex modifies biology, health, disease, and medicine. Everything we know about the diagnosis and treatment of disease originates from studies conducted on male cells, male animal models, and men. Historically, medical science has assumed that male and female cells were biologically identical, and evidence-based medicine was defined by clinical trials performed predominantly in men. While scientists and clinicians have observed sex differences in diseases for years, and the United States (US) National Institutes of Health (NIH) mandated the inclusion of women in NIH-funded clinical trials, as well as the consideration of sex as a biological variable (SABV) in NIH-funded basic research, the scientific community has not yet fully addressed the issue. The TCESBM seeks to rectify this. Sex as a Genetic Modifier of Biology and Medicine Sex-Based Biology & Medicine (SBM) is the study of differences between males and females in biology, health, disease, and medicine. It requires an understanding of the role of sex (biological constructs), and the role of gender (social constructs). Diagnosis, Treatment and Prevention of Disease SBM is critical to the success of clinical care and translational science. Harnessing the biological forces that define disease manifestation and severity in one sex compared to the other will open research avenues to transform prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. This will require an awareness by clinicians and researchers that the diseases they are treating, and studying are characterized by differences between women and men in epidemiology, pathophysiology, manifestations, progression, and response to treatment. SBM is a fundamental step towards precision medicine that will benefit both women and men. Biological Sex Influences COVID-19 Studies in China, Europe and the United States have shown that men with COVID-19 are more likely to be hospitalized, need critical care or die from COVID-19 than women. However, in the predominantly non-Hispanic Black population of New Orleans, this male predominance in COVID-19 severe outcomes is not observed. TCESBM researchers are investigating the role of biological sex in COVID-19 outcomes. © All rights reserved Tulane University, TCESBM, IatroDesign, LLC