Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Faculty/Staff transactions by appointment (Window #1). Schedule an appointment for in-person Faculty/Staff services with the GH180 Cashiers Office, Mon - Fri from 9am - 4pm, at cashiers@fullerton.edu. Faculty & Staff Student Business Services offers a range of services to our Faculty and Staff members on campus. Either at our university cashier's office at window #1 GH-180 or online, we handle: Departmental Deposits & Payments Petty Cash Requests Fee Adjustment Requests Scholarship Check Deposits Miscellaneous Faculty / Staff services SBS DL Requests SBS Distribution List Inquiries PeopleSoft and other technical needs of faculty and staff. Fee Adjustment Form Request a reversal of a non-refundable fee (approval required). General Inquiries Email Fee Adjustment Form Departmental Deposits Complete the Deposit of Reimbursement to University Account form and submit it to Window #1 at the cashier's office. The form can be found under the Forms link from the Accounting Services and Financial Reporting website. Attach any supporting documentation deemed relevant to the transaction and include the correct CashNet Item Code and/or Chart Field for reimbursement. If you received a university invoice (ASR), DO NOT use this form and take the invoice direction to Window #1. Accounting Services and Financial Reporting Forms eMarket Guidelines EMarket is a CashNet module that allows departments to collect money for approved services/products/fees via online storefronts and checkouts. Customers are linked out from a department website to a customized storefront where they can select and pay for items via credit card. The site is PCI compliant and funds can be automatically deposited to the general ledger. Application - How it works: Departments interested in using the eCommerce solutions are asked to complete a CSUF eMarket Site Request Form for an eMarket Storefront or checkout, which is located Forms tab above. The requested information includes: Type of payment to be collected Amount Funds, department ID Bank account where funds are to be deposited GL account where credit card interchange fees should be charged (if applicable) The completed form is submitted to Student Business Services (College Park-200) for approval. If approved, a copy will be sent electronically to the Accounting Office to be assigned an account number. Student Business Services will notify the requesting department via email if their request is approved or denied. WHAT HAPPENS ONCE APPROVAL IS GRANTED Student Business Services' (CP-200) Responsibilities: Contact the department and set up a meeting to discuss the store setup and design. Ask the department to prepare a document with their product names, descriptions, amounts, any information they wish to collect on the transaction, and any custom messages they would like displayed in their storefront/checkout. Ask the department to provide the names of staff members who will oversee their store and who will issue the refunds. Create the store in a test environment for the department to view and request any changes. Set up department users in the eMarket system (within CashNet) with a user ID and password. Move the store from "test" to production once the department is satisfied with the setup. Provide the department with the URL to their eMarket site. Requesting Department's Role Your Departmental Responsibilities: Provide the SBS Office (CP-200) with a list of products/services, the description, the amount, and any additional information they wish to collect for each transaction such as buyer's name, address, etc... Provide the SBS Office (CP-200) with the names of employees who will manage/oversee their storefront/checkout. Submit a CSUF User Authorization Request form for each employee listed above. Provide any images they wish to display their products/services. Review and thoroughly test the storefront/checkout in the test environment. Request any final changes. Place a link on their website to direct their customers to their eMarket site. Run reports of transactions. Notify the SBS Office (CP-200) if any employee changes their job duties and no longer requires access to eMarket so that their user ID can be disabled. How to Request an Operator ID Department eMarket owners are required to complete a CashNet Operator Request Form located on the Faculty/Staff tab under the Student Business Services website. They will be given a CashNet Operator ID and password access CashNet's eMarket system. Privileges are dependent upon the Operator Group to which they are assigned. TYPES OF PRODUCTS/SERVICES IN EMARKET Products/Services Allowed Storefronts and checkouts may be used for a variety of approved products, services, or fees such as: Conferences Membership Fees Event Tickets Applications/Deposits Physical Goods Test Fees Products/Services not Allowed eMarket is not intended for payments toward charges previously posted to a student's account in PeopleSoft. Charges and payments, however, can be posted after the fact so it shows on the student account. This is called an autocharge. Fees charged to all students enrolled in a course are considered course fees and should be submitted to the Campus Fee advisory Committee for approval and subsequent posting to student's accounts. New fees of any type charged to students must be approved by the Campus Fee Advisory Committee. EMARKET SETTINGS Banner A banner is a graphic at the top of your storefront page. Departments may use the same banner that appears on their CSUF website for their storefront. Checkouts are within the existing departmental web page, so they are much more customizable than a storefront. Item Codes & Reference (inventory and fulfillment) All items within a store are tired to an "item code" which will include a print description of the item, the amount, and the GL account code where the payment will be deposited. Additional information can be collected for each item such as name, address, email, etc... of the buyer. These are called "Reference fields" and can be required or optional. Categories If there are several products/services offered within a store, they can be organized into categories so customers can find them easier. An example might be a category of "Tickets" and within that category are several types of tickets available for sale. Refunds Department storefront owners with refund rights can process refunds for payments made through their eMarket storefront/checkout. The refund is made directly to the credit card used and partial refunds are allowed. For help with refunds for eMarket transactions please email emarket@fullerton.edu. Reports Department users can run reports on the payment activity within their storefront. Reports are based on the combination of selected criteria such as date range, transaction type, item code, amount, or GL account code. Reports may be run in summary or detail mode and formatting using Excel, Word of PDF. EMarket also offers the option to email a report in any of these formats. Cost to Departments The cost to departments for using eMarket is the interchange rate assessed by the banks for processing Visa, Mastercard, AMEX, and Discover credit card transactions. At the time of this writing, the maximum interchange rate is approximately 2.65% of the total transaction in the storefront. The department will be charged for these fees by Accounting Services or can choose to pass on the fees to the customer. The Student Business Services Office does not charge departments for the setup of the storefront at this time. eMarket Frequently Asked Questions Q: How do I access eMarket? Do I need special software or equipment? A: As the eMarket site owner, you must use a PC and Internet Explorer as your access to eMarket. Q: Are customers also required to use PC and Internet Explorer? A: No. Customers may use any computer or web browser. Q: How long does it take to get an eMarket site ready for production? A: Normally, it takes 3 weeks from the last meeting with the SBS department until the site is ready for department viewing. But it also depends on the number of products or stores requested. Q: What if my department deposits to another bank or a different Wells Fargo bank account? A: We can accommodate your request for a storefront or checkout. However, there will not be an automatic feed to the general ledger. This must be done manually based on reports run by your department. You will also be required to submit the latest copy of the bank statement for the account used for the deposit and obtain a merchant account number from your bank. We can only set-up eMarkets for the University or its Auxiliary Organizations. All funds must be deposited to an approved university or auxiliary organization bank account via an authorized merchant ID. Q: Can I add/delete products/services from my eMarket site if I have a CashNet Operator ID with eMarket access? A: You must complete another Request for an eMarket Site Request form and check the box indicating it is a request for additional items. All new products/services must be approved prior to being added to the eMarket site. Q: What type of credit cards are accepted by eMarket storefront or checkout? A: Visa/Master/Amex/Discover Q: How will the money get into my account? A: Transactions that have occurred on your eMarket site will be processed and deposited into the revenue account(s) that you specified on your eMarket Site Request Form. The money will be deposited the next business day after the transactions have occurred. Q: Who handles the departmental refund process on the eMarket storefront? A: Student Business Services (CP-200) handles all the departmental refund process. The refund is made directly to the credit card used, and partial refunds are allowed. You can contact them at cashnetrefunds@fullerton.edu. Q: Will we receive training on how to run reports? A: Yes. Q: Whom do we contact for questions about eMarket? A: Please contact emarket@fullerton.edu or Scott Petersen at 657-278-2759 for more information. CSU Accounting Guidelines and Cash Management Policies It is the policy of the California State University, Chancellor's Office to implement internal controls in the area of cash management. In order to minimize security risks and safeguard campus resources, all faculty and staff members are required to adhere to CSU-wide cash handling and management policies. Deposits should be made in a timely manner. Funds and resources should be deposited within a reasonable time frame. All Cash Handling Units must deposit to Main Cashiers or bank in a timely manner, and at least within five (5) business days of receipt. Cash Handling Units shall deposit to the Main Cashier and/or bank, whenever excess cash exceeds $1,000 or cash and cash equivalents accumulatively exceeds $5,000. Deposits meeting or exceeding these thresholds require a campus police escort or armored car. CSUF Cash Management Policy Cash and Cash Equivalents Definition of cash and cash equivalents: 6330.00: Incoming Cash and Checks 6340.00: Debit/Credit Card Payment Policy (Supersedes 3102.05) Currency and coins Money Orders Wire Transfers Credit and Debit cards Checks (Made payable to California State University, Fullerton from bank accounts from the U.S. only) Security of Cash and Cash Equivalents: 6202.00: Segregation of Cash Handling Duties (Supersedes 3102.02) Cash must be stored in a locked cash box or drawer at all times when not in use Monies for deposit should be held in a locked drawer, box or safe when not deposited the day of receipt Count cash in a secure location out of sight from the public Transporting Cash and Cash Equivalents: 6330.00: Incoming Cash and Checks A locked bag must be used to transport all deposits Deposits must be transported under double custody (two employees) Currency in excess of $2,500 must be escorted by campus police CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbs@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 In-person Services Temporarily Unavailable Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New: Questions about mailed check payments? Contact our Cashiers office directly at cashiers@fullerton.edu Back to Homepage Reminder It is the policy of the CSU that the implementation of systemwide cash management policies meets the internal control objectives, documentation, and retention requirements of the university. It is the responsibility of all CSU faculty and staff members to adhere to CSUF-wide cash handling and management policies. This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.