Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Sign Up For Direct Deposit Save time and receive your funds sooner. Enroll in Direct Deposit through your Student Homepage with an active checking or savings account from the United States. After the account is verified, you will receive your funds sooner and more securely than checks in the mail. What are the benefits of Direct Deposit? Don't have to wait for the mail Reduce the risk of lost or stolen checks Protect your bank information with multi-factor authentication It's a free service How to enroll online Log into your Student Homepage through the CSUF Portal. Click the "Enroll in Direct Deposit" tile. Verify it's you with Duo Security, multi-factor authentication. Enter your banking information and follow the next steps to complete the process. Wait two to five business days to activate your Direct Deposit. How do I use Duo Multi-Factor Authentication? After clicking "Enroll in Direct Deposit," you will be directed to the Duo Multi-Factor Authentication screen. Select one of your phone numbers on the "Device" drop-down menu to be used for verification. "Call Me" will call your phone number, and "Enter A Passcode" will text you a passcode. If you see an error message, we may not have your current phone number on file. Please contact the 24/7 Student IT Help Desk at 657-278-8888 or StudentITHelpdesk@fullerton.edu for technical support. What happens if I'm not enrolled in Direct Deposit? Student Business Services will automatically send a check to the mailing address on file. If necessary, please update your mailing address to ensure your funds arrive at the correct location. CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbs@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 In-person Services Temporarily Unavailable Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New: Questions about mailed check payments? Contact our Cashiers office directly at cashiers@fullerton.edu Back to Homepage This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.