Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop International Payments with Flywire Cal State Fullerton has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide. Easily and securely make education payments in your own currency, using local payment methods from the safety and convenience of your home. How to make a payment Online with Flywire Log into your CSUF Portal to access your Student Homepage . Click on the Financial Account tile and Make a Payment to begin the payment process. Click on Pay Now to open a new window to our online payment portal. At checkout, click on the International Payment - Flywire payment option. Select your country and enter the amount due. Follow the payment instructions to send your funds through Flywire. You will receive real-time notifications of your completed payment by email or text (optional). Track your payment with the tracking link provided in your email, or create a Flywire user account to view your payment record by logging in. Flywire Support Email: support@flywire.com Web: help.flywire.com How to Pay Video Payments to India with Flywire It takes 3-5 business days to deliver payments to Cal State Fullerton. Payments must be received by the deadline to be considered on time. Quick LINKS Payment Deadlines Refunds Tuition and Fees International Student Services Pay now with Flywire CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbs@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 In-person Services Temporarily Unavailable Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New: Questions about mailed check payments? Contact our Cashiers office directly at cashiers@fullerton.edu Back to Homepage SBS Live Chat Mon - Thur, 9:00am-5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm CWID Login Required General questions? Connect with a Customer Service Specialist during our SBS Connect operating hours. This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.