Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Dream & Perkins Loan Repayment Our Billing Servicer is Heartland ECSI (Educational Computer Systems, Inc.), a private company completely independent of the college and universities that contract with it to provide Billing Services. To access your accounts being serviced or managed by Heartland ECSI, you'll need to create a profile with Heartland ECSI. Follow the simple process by entering the requested information. Once you have created your profile, you will need to connect your account. Find Your Account Number Your account number can be located in the upper right-hand section of all printed and mailed communication and notifications. The account number is a 17 character alphanumeric number (including a hyphen). A sample account number is 01122-12345678912. For email communications, your account number can be located in the lower left-hand corner of the communication. You can also search for your account number using your first name, last name, Social Security Number, and zip code. To view your account online, make a payment, or obtain deferment forms, go to the Heartland ECSI website. If you have questions regarding your billing that was sent to you by ECSI, or you are missing your bill, please contact Heartland ECSI at 1-888-549-3274 or http://www.heartland.ecsi.net/. CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: perkinsloans@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New! SBS Solution Center @ CP-100 Hours: Mon-Thurs, 10am-6pm Friday, 10am-5pm Back to Homepage This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.