Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Payments can be made online through the Financial Account tile on the Student Homepage. Avoid the 2.65% merchant fee for online card payments and make your payment with a bank account. Paying Your Balance After charges are applied to your account, payments for your fees can be made in a number of ways. Banking delays or long lines can affect timely payments. To avoid late fees or being subject to disenrollment, make an early payment. Early payments allow us to catch and resolve issues in a timely manner. If you have any additional questions or concerns that are not addressed on this page, please contact us. Online payments Make a payment online through your Student Homepage. Navigate to Financial Account tile through your Student Homepage to find the links to make an online payment. Bank Account Use your bank account information to pay with an E-check for no additional fees. (Processed the same day after verification) Debit/Credit Cards Online card payments charge a non-refundable 2.65% merchant fee. (Processed the same day) International Funds Transfer your funds internationally through Flywire. (3-5 business days for delivery) This information is from <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/a2KHb9xZNaE">https://www.youtube.com/embed/a2KHb9xZNaE</a> In-person Payments Personal Checks (By mail) Make payable to CSUF or CSU Fullerton. Write your name and CWID number on the front of the check. The university is not responsible for carrier delays for mail-in payments. Post-marked dates are not honored. A $25.00 fee will be charged for payments made by checks that are returned by your bank, for any reason. Students with two or more dishonored payments will lose personal check-writing privileges with the University. Cashier's Check, Money Order, Traveler's Check (By mail) Make payable to CSUF or CSU Fullerton. Write your name and CWID number on the front of the cashier's check, money order, or traveler's check. The university is not responsible for carrier delays for mail-in payments. Post-marked dates are not honored. Cash (Temporarily Unavailable) Please do not send cash in the mail or place cash in the Drop Box at Window #10. Debit Cards (Temporarily Unavailable) Please use the bank account associated with your debit card to pay online with an E-check (no additional fees). Except for international debit cards, CSUF accepts all ATM/Debit Cards with a valid PIN. ATM/Debit cards may have a daily spending limit depending on your issuing bank. (Bank account information can also be used online as an E-Check payment without service fees. See "Online Payments - ECheck" below for more information). A $25.00 charge will be applied to payments made by ATM that are returned by your bank, for any reason. Students with two or more dishonored payments will lose personal check-writing privileges with the University. TITAN Tender (Temporarily Unavailable) Titan Tender cannot be used to pay tuition and housing fees posted in Student Accounts. Quick LINKS Payment Deadlines Refunds Tuition and Fees Payment Plan Financial Aid CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbs@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 In-person Services Temporarily Unavailable Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New: Questions about mailed check payments? Contact our Cashiers office directly at cashiers@fullerton.edu Back to Homepage FRANCHISE TAX BOARD Recently received a letter in the mail about outstanding fees? Why did I get this letter? Why am I charged this amount? What's the Franchise Tax Board? More Information SBS Live Chat Mon - Thur, 9:00am-5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm CWID Login Required General questions? Connect with a Customer Service Specialist during our SBS Connect operating hours. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at https://www.va.gov/education/ This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.