Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Tuition Installment Payment Plan (TIPP) The TIPP gives students the opportunity to break up their Tuition Fees (State fees) or Non-Resident Tuition Fee (Out-of-State fees) in monthly installments. For California residents, this payment plan will divide tuition, campus fees, and professional program fees (if applicable). The payment plan does not include the Student Involvement Representation Fee (SIRF) and online distance fees, which have a separate payment deadline. See the list of all student fees for more information. Financial Aid Recipients: You may be responsible for an out-of-pocket payment if your financial aid is insufficient to pay the amount due or not disbursed before the payment deadline. Check the Student Homepage to see if the Anticipated Financial Aid award is sufficient to cover the due charges. Summer 2022 Payment Plan: Last day to enroll in the summer payment plan is May 2nd. Enroll online through your Student Homepage. Enrolling in the installment payment plan (Completed each semester) Online Enrollment Sign-up for the payment plan online through CSUF Portal. Student Homepage > Financial Account > Account Services > Enroll in Payment Plan If Student Homepage enrollment is unavailable: Complete the online form on our Forms Page during the payment plan enrollment period. For students under the age of 18, a parent or guardian will be required to co-sign the document. Requirements for Self-Enrollment on the Student Homepage -Student is at least 18 years of age -The student has already enrolled in courses for the term -There are no past due balances for a prior term. -The student is currently admitted for the specified term. -Tuition fees (resident or non-resident) for current term have not yet been paid. -Financial Aid is not awarded. Extension and International Programs (EIP) For more information on enrolling in EIP payment plans for Open University, Self-Support Degrees, and selected Extension Programs, please visit the EIP Payment Plan Page. During the Prepayment period Online enrollment is disabled during Prepay. Complete a payment plan application (Available on Forms Page) during the payment plan enrollment period to submit the form electronically for approval. Payment Plan for California Residents State Tuition and Campus-based fees divided into three installments (excluding summer and winter terms): A non-refundable $33.00 Payment Plan service fee is added to the first TIPP payment deadline after successful enrollment in the Tuition Installment Payment Plan. General Deadline information When it's Due What's Due Tuition Payment Deadline 1 1/3 of State Tuition +1/3 Campus-based Fees +1/3 Prof. Program Fees +$33.00 TIPP Service Fee Tuition Payment Deadline 2 1/3 of State Tuition +1/3 Campus-based Fees +1/3 Prof. Program Fees Tuition Payment Deadline 3 1/3 of State Tuition +1/3 Campus-based Fees +1/3 Prof. Program Fees Fees not included in Resident TIPP (Due on original registration deadline) Student Representation Fee (SIRF) Required course fees (Online Distance Fees, Piano Usage Fee, Evaluation Fees, etc.) Please check your Student Homepage for specific payment plan deadlines or on our Important Dates page. Payment Plan for Non-California Residents Non-Resident Tuition (NRT) divided into three installments (excluding summer and winter terms): A non-refundable service charge of 9% of total Non-Resident Tuition Fees is applied and divided into the three payments. Plan does not include Resident Tuition (State Fees). General Deadline Information When it's Due What's Due NRT Payment Deadline 1 1/3 of Non-Resident Tuition + 9% of Non-Resident Tuition Fee NRT Payment Deadline 2 1/3 of Non-Resident Tuition + 9% of Non-Resident Tuition Fee NRT Payment Deadline 3 1/3 of Non-Resident Tuition + 9% of Non-Resident Tuition Fee Fees not included in Non-Resident TIPP (Due on original regsitration deadlines) Resident (In-State) Tuition Fees and Campus-based fees Required course fees (Professional Program Fees, Online Distance Fees, Piano Usage Fee, Evaluation Fees, etc...) Please check your Student Homepage for specific payment plan deadlines or on our Important Dates page. Payment Plan Deadlines payment plan deadlines by session Payment Summer 2022 Fall 2022 #1 05/02/2022 08/12/2022 #2 06/02/2022 09/12/2022 #3 N/A 10/12/2022 Last day to enroll in Summer 2022 TIPP is 05/02/2022 Payment Plan Application/Agreement Unable to enroll online through the Student Homepage? You may need to fill out the agreement on our Forms Page. Students under the age of 18 Please complete a Tuition Installment Payment Plan Application/Agreement on our forms tab. Prepayment Period Online Enrollment for TIPP ends when the Prepayment period begins. During Prepayment, enroll with the form link below before the payment plan deadline. Contact us if you have any additional questions or concerns. Quick LINKS Spring 2022 Fees Fall 2022 Fees Refunds Tuition and Fees EIP Payment Plan Forms CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbs@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 In-person Services Temporarily Unavailable Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New: Questions about mailed check payments? Contact our Cashiers office directly at cashiers@fullerton.edu Back to Homepage SBS Live Chat Mon - Thur, 9:00am-5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm CWID Login Required General questions? Connect with a Customer Service Specialist during our SBS Connect operating hours. This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/22/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.