Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Summer Tuition and Other Fees Summer tuition will vary depending on the enrolled summer program and may be charged based on either part-time (0-6 units) or full-time (7+ units) enrollment. Certain programs will be charged by the number of enrolled units during the term. Tuition fees may vary from student to student, depending on the pursued program. Two summer fee structures There will be two different tuition fee structures this summer. Depending on the degree program or enrolled courses, the Student Homepage will reflect either per-unit tuition or a "part-time/full-time" tuition fee. More information about the summer fee structures is available below. What are my charges? Check if your program is considered either Self-Support (per-unit charges) or State-Support (part-time and full-time tuition charges) on the information provided below. Self-Support charges If your program or course is not included in the List of State-Support Programs, summer tuition fees will be charged the per-unit Self-Support Tuition rates below. The majority of the CSUF Summer Session programs are administered through Extension & International Programs (EIP). Campus-based fees will be added to the final charges on your Student Account after enrollment in summer courses. self-Support Tuition Fees Item Charges Per Unit Undergraduate Program $320.00 Credential Program $330.00 Graduate Program $360.00 Ed. Doctorate Program N/A Doctor of Nursing Practice N/A 3-unit sample (not including campus fees) Item 3-unit Charge Undergraduate Program $960.00 Credential Program $990.00 Graduate Program $1,080.00 state-Support Charges Courses enrolled under the programs below will have tuition charged based on the part-time and full-time tuition rates. There will be one flat tuition charge for either part-time enrollment (0-6 units) or full-time enrollment (7+ units). List of State-Support Programs Education Doctorate Program GEOL 481A Master's of Business Administration (MBA)* Master's in Education (Ed Admin, Elem Curric & Instruction/Credential, Higher Ed, Secondary Ed, Special Ed, Ed Tech) Master's in Public Health (MPH) Master of Science in Engineering Management Master of Arts in Mathematics/Teaching Master of Arts in Math/Applied Math Master of Science in Athletic Training Master of Science in Accountancy* Master of Science in Information Systems* Master of Science in Information Technology* Master of Science in Instructional Design & Technology Master of Science in Software Engineering Master of Science in Statistics Master of Science in Taxation* Master of Science in Counseling Master of Science in Computational Applied Mathematics Nursing-all majors including Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) *Additional Professional Program Fee Charges State-Support Tuition Fees Item Charge Undergraduate Nursing Program & GEOL 481A (0-6 units) $1,665.00 Undergraduate Nursing Program & GEOL 481A (7+ units) $2,871.00 Credential Program (0-6 units) N/A Credential Program (7+ units) N/A Graduate Program (0-6 units) $2,082.00 Graduate Program (7+ units) $3,588.00 Ed. Doctorate Program (Any units) $5,919.00 Doctor of Nursing Practice (Any units) $7,635.00 Non-Resident Tuition fees (if applicable), Professional Program fees, and Campus-Based fees will be added to the final charges on the student account after enrollment in State-Support summer courses. Summer Session Campus Fees Campus-Based fees will be added to all enrolled students. Whether the student is State-Support or Self-Support, each student will be required to pay the mandatory campus fees for the summer. List of Campus-based fees Item Charge Student Success Fee $48.74 Associated Student Body Fee $5.68 Campus Union Fee $68.01 Consolidated Course Fee $28.34 Health Center Fee $90.67 Health Facilities Fee $3.39 Student ID Card Fee $4.53 TITAN Participation Fee $7.94 Total $257.30 Miscellaneous State-Support fees (If applicable) Students may also be charged additional fees with regular tuition and campus-based fees. Out-of-state (non-resident) students will have an additional non-resident tuition fee charged on their account for each enrolled unit. Professional Program Fees will also be charged for each enrolled unit to students enrolled in select graduate programs. Table of Miscellaneous fees (State-Support Programs) Item Charge Non-Resident Tuition Fee $396.00 per enrolled units Professional Program Fee $270.00 per enrolled units Non-Resident Tuition Fees: Students that are not California Residents will be charged an additional non-resident tuition fee on top of their regular tuition and campus charges. Non-Resident tuition fees are an additional $396.00 for each enrolled unit. List of Non-Resident Tuition Fee Programs/Courses Education Doctorate Program GEOL 481A Master's in Education (Ed Admin, Elem Curric & Instruction/Credential, Higher Ed, Secondary Ed, Special Ed, Teaching Online) Master's in Public Health (MPH) Master of Arts in Mathematics/Teaching Master of Science in Athletic Training Master of Science in Instructional Design & Technology Master of Science in Software Engineering Master of Science in Statistics Nursing-all majors including Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and Postbac Credential Professional Program Fees: Students enrolled in the programs below will be charged an additional Professional Program Fee on top of their regular tuition and campus charges. Professional program fees are an additional $270.00 for each enrolled unit. List of Professional Program Fee Programs Master of Business Administration (MBA) Master of Science in Accountancy Master of Science in Information Systems Master of Science in Information Technology Master of Science in Taxation Early Start Program charges A full refund will be issued if courses are dropped before the program start date ($5.00 refund processing fee). Payments are non-refundable if courses are dropped after the start of the program. Early Start Program fees are due the same day as enrollment in courses. list of early start program fees Item Charge Early Start Program Fee $191.00 per enrolled units Early Start Program Health Facility Fee $1.00 Early Start Program Campus Union Fee $1.00 More information about the program is available at the Early Start Program - Office of Admissions page. 2022 Early Start Program PDF important summer dates summer registration dates and payment deadlines Name Registration Date Payment Deadline Titan A March 18 - April 30, 2022 May 2, 2022 Titan B May 1 - 26, 2022 May 26, 2022 Prepay Beginning May 27, 2022 Due Prior to Enrollment QUICK LINKS Early Start Program Fees List of State-Support Programs Payment Plans Payment Deadlines Refunds Office of Financial Aid Extension and International Programs CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbs@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 In-person Services Temporarily Unavailable Gordon Hall - 180 Hours: Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm New: Questions about mailed check payments? Contact our Cashiers office directly at cashiers@fullerton.edu Back to Homepage SBS Live Chat Mon - Thur, 9:00am-5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm CWID Login Required General questions? Connect with a Customer Service Specialist during our SBS Connect operating hours. dISCLAIMER The CSU makes every effort to keep student costs to a minimum. Fees listed in published schedules or student accounts may need to be increased when public funding is inadequate. Therefore, CSU must reserve the right, even after fees are initially charged or initial fee payments are made, to increase or modify any listed fees. All listed fees, other than mandatory systemwide fees, are subject to change without notice, until the date when instruction for a particular semester or quarter has begun. All CSU listed fees should be regarded as estimates that are subject to change upon approval by The Board of Trustees, the Chancellor, or the Presidents, as appropriate. Changes in mandatory systemwide fees will be made in accordance with the requirements of the Working Families Student Fee Transparency and Accountability Act (Sections 66028 – 66028.6 of the Education Code). This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.