Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Administration and Finance Student Business Services Main Navigation Services Forms Faculty & Staff About Titan One-Stop Shop Collections & Educational Loan Repayment Agreements Note: If you are a current student with a past due balance, please visit your Student Homepage to make a payment. Students No Longer Attending CSUF CSUF students have access to their Titan Online portal for up to nine months beyond their last term of enrollment. For information on making a payment online, please see the Payments page. To avoid collection activity associated with a delinquent debt, CSUF strongly recommends that former students monitor their student account activity on a weekly basis for up to 6 months after separating from the university. Before separating from CSUF it is expected that a student's account be paid in full. However, if full payment is not possible it is the policy of Student Business Services to create a monthly payment plan to assist the debtor. The following pertains to delinquent account payment plans: The payment plan is not to exceed a twelve month period; the monthly payment and due date are determined by CSUF and are not negotiable. Until the debt has been paid in full the debtor will not have access to any CSUF services. Services include transcripts, diplomas from being issued, and future registration; per Title 5, California Code of Regulations, Sections 42380 and 42381. CSUF is required to annually report the debt to the Franchise Tax Board for state refund garnishment; per California Government Code Sections 12419.2, 12419.7, 12419.9, 12419.10, 12419.11, and 12419.12. Any skipped, missed, or partial payments automatically annuls the payment plan and the account will be immediately forwarded to an outside collection agency resulting in negative credit reporting to the one of the major credit bureaus. If the debtor successfully completes the payment plan the delinquent debt will not be reported to the three major credit bureaus. Unsigned Educational Loan Repayment Agreements will be sent to collections. Establishing a payment plan with CSUF Email Student Business Services at sbspastdueaccounts@fullerton.edu or call (657) 278-2495 with the following information: First and Last Name Campus Wide ID# Current mailing address Current phone number After the account has been reviewed for eligibility the Collection's Representative will contact the debtor via email with the required payment plan documentation. Important Information If the account has been submitted to an outside collection agency the debtor may not establish a payment plan with CSUF and must contact the appropriate collection agency. Account Control Technology (ACT) - (800) 830-7770 ConServe – (800) 724-4439 CSUF does not accept settlement offers on debts owed. CSUF does not negotiate the removal of accurately reported negative credit reporting. Appeals to apply for reversal of fees must be done within a year of the outstanding balance. Although CSUF appreciates all repayment efforts collection processes will continue unless the debtor enters a formal monthly payment plan with CSUF. CONTACT US Student Business Services Email: sbspastdueaccounts @fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2495 Live Chat: SBS Connect Mon - Thurs, 9:00am - 5:30pm Fri, 9:00am - 4:00pm (CWID Required) Mailing Address: Gordon Hall - 180 PO Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834 Back to Homepage This site is maintained by Student Business Services. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact afeng@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.