OSU Libraries Collections All Collections Collections by Title Collections by Type People, Places, and Topics Creators Digital Resources University History History of Science Linus Pauling Online Oregon Multicultural Archives Oregon Hops and Brewing Archives Natural Resources Online Audio/Video Social Media About Us Mission Statement Department History Staff Using Our Collections Facilities Frequently Asked Questions Services Frequently Asked Questions Donating Materials Facilities Instruction and Outreach Records Management Reference Reproduction & Use Ask An Archivist Collections Only Entire Website Search Welcome. The Oregon State University Libraries Special Collections and Archives Research Center, located on the 5th floor of The Valley Library, is home to the university’s unique collections of manuscripts, archives, photographs, and books. We collect in six main areas: the History of OSU, the History of Science, Natural Resources, Multiculturalism in Oregon, Hops and Brewing History and Rare Books. We also administer the university's Records Management Program and are home to a robust Oral History Program. Finally, through our Digital Production Unit, we pursue a great many initiatives meant to improve access to and preservation of manuscripts, photographs, moving images and audio materials under our care. We acknowledge that materials in SCARC collections and the language that describes them may be harmful. We are actively working to address our descriptive practices; for more information please see our SCARC Anti-Racist Actions Statement. For help getting started with your research, please see our Reference page, and for more on what we do, please see our Mission Statement. Featured Projects Women's Words, Women's Work An online exhibit that explores the social and cultural expectations that have framed women's experiences on the Oregon State campus over 150 years. Oregon State University Sesquicentennial Oral History Project The largest oral history project ever conducted at OSU, this web portal contains over 400 hours of interviews with a wide array of alumni, faculty, staff and current students. OSU History Quicklinks Chronological History of OSU A year-by-year overview of the history of the university, beginning with the settlement of the Willamette Valley in the early 1840s and running all the way through the conclusion of calendar year 2016. Also check out our separate Campus Buildings Histories guide for details on structures both past and present. Publications A keyword-searchable digital collection featuring: Alumni Magazines, including The Oregon Stater, from 1921 to the present; General Catalogs, beginning in 1866; Sports Media Guides documenting the full spectrum of OSU Athletics; and the entire run of OSU Yearbooks from 1894-2014. Photographs A rich repository of thousands of hand-selected digitized images depicting OSU's history, campus, traditions, and people from the 1800s up to today. Videos A large and continually growing collection of digitized films and videos documenting campus life and athletics, among other topics in OSU history. Oral History SCARC's online oral history presence consists of over 1,000 hours of contexualized interviews covering university history, Oregon Agricultural College, hops and brewing, multicultural communities, womens history and much more. News and Notes Reference and Research Services SCARC is open by appointment only. To learn more about scheduling an appointment or our remote reference services, please visit the website linked above. Please note: Unfortunately, because of continued worksite limitations and reduced staffing, we do not have the capacity to host interns at this time. Speaking of History blog Oregon Multicultural Archives blog Blogs: Speaking of History | Oregon Multicultural Archives | Pauling Blog | Brewstorian | Rare@OSU © 2022, Special Collections & Archives Research Center Oregon State University Libraries scarc@oregonstate.edu (541) 737-2075 Normal Operating Hours: 10:00 am-4:00 pm, Mon-Fri 121 The Valley Library Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-3411 Accolades Collections at the Center Copyright Facilities FAQ Pauling Legacy Award Oregon Digital Resident Scholar Program Student Opportunities Using Our Collections Visiting Guide Facebook Flickr Flickr Commons (About) Instagram Pinterest Twitter