Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Academics Internships Student Life Belonging at CIW About Apply Search Now Accepting Fall 2022 Applications Apply for Fall 2022! Contact CIW Live, learn & intern in Washington, DC Experience world-class courses, internships, and community engagement designed to transform students into scholars, professionals, and leaders. Academics 90+ Academic majors served by Cornell in Washington 8 to 10 Unique courses offered every semester by Cornell faculty 1,000+ Curated internship opportunities available Now Accepting Fall 2022 Applications Learn more Top 3 reasons to study with Cornell in Washington Transform knowledge into action Enroll in small classes taught by Cornell faculty experts, earn college credits, and gain practical experience by applying what you learn in the classroom to your internship. Build your professional network Network with professionals in fields in which you're interested, develop job skills, enhance your resume, and gain future career opportunities. Enjoy community engagement in DC Have fun, meet new people, volunteer with local organizations, and enjoy an exciting range of cultural and recreational activities in DC. Student experiences "Through CIW, I was a communications intern for the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law during the spring and summer of 2018... My experience was tremendous, as I was able to work closely with brilliant attorneys who constantly challenged my worldview, introduced me to the world of civil rights legal advocacy, and put me on the path toward my own legal career." Jake May "CIW was my most valuable semester at Cornell as it allowed me to put my skills to use outside the classroom. I interned at a private healthcare consulting firm and my research paper was on racial bias in health care settings, which I used as a springboard to apply to grad school. Soon I’ll be getting my PhD in health services research at Brown University. I’m forever thankful for CIW and its impact on my journey!" Debbie Nyakaru Get updates about Cornell in Washington Email address Follow us on social Tag your posts #cornellinwashington to share your experiences. Contact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top