Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Who We Are News & Events Give to SCE Contact SCE COVID-19 Search School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Who We Are Mission & Outreach Mission The mission of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions (SCE) is to present the broadest possible range of high-quality learning opportunities to Cornell's many constituencies. We draw on the resources of all of Cornell's academic units, identifying needs and developing programs that most appropriately and effectively deploy Cornell's vast and varied educational resources. Although SCE does not itself grant degrees, we help students working toward degrees by registering them in Cornell courses. Visit the SCE homepage to explore your learning options Outreach In keeping with our mission, Cornell SCE actively supports a number of programs and activities that serve the common good. Part-time study for Cornell employees and retirees Cornell University encourages its employees and retirees to take courses for personal and professional development. SCE makes this possible by registering Cornell employees and retirees in tuition-free study in on-campus courses. Visitors' Noncredit Program The Visitors' Noncredit Program makes it possible for adults who are not degree candidates to take advantage of Cornell's extensive course offerings at a 90 percent tuition discount. Free summer events Area residents and the campus community are encouraged to continue their education together in one of the most enjoyable ways possible by attending our free summer events series, which includes lectures by distinguished presenters, indoor performances, and concerts on the Arts Quad. Summertime College Fair Area high school students and their families and teachers are invited to attend the free Summertime College Fair, which helps participants evaluate their college options. Cornell Prison Education Program The Cornell Prison Education Program offers classes leading to an associate's degree for men incarcerated in area prisons. Veterans Summer Bridge Program SCE is pleased to offer tuition-free summer classes to eligible first-year applicants and transfer students through Cornell's Veterans Summer Bridge Program. Visit the Bridge Program site for information about eligibility, course options, community-building programs, and registration requirements. Empire State College registration By registering through SCE, Empire State College students may take Cornell courses at a reduced tuition rate (25 percent of the regular Cornell tuition). Empire State College students may register only for courses offered by the state contract schools and colleges of the university: the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, the College of Human Ecology, the School of Industrial and Labor Relations, and the College of Veterinary Medicine. Please contact us for more information. Programs for sponsored students Sponsored students are either exchange students who pay tuition to a "home" institution while taking classes through SCE's Part-Time Study Program or students who receive partial or total tuition funding as a benefit from another institution, corporation, or agency. Sponsored students include Wells College and Ithaca College undergraduates, ROTC students, and Binghamton University, Syracuse University, and University of Rochester graduate exchange students. SCE also works with corporate- and government-sponsored students. Please contact us for more information. Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Medical Program SCE provides academic support for the Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Pre-Medical Curriculum, a two-year course of study designed to prepare students to meet the educational requirements and rigors of the four-year Medical Curriculum of the Six-Year Medical Program. For information, visit Six-Year Medical Program. The Cornell University–National Education Equity Lab program for high school students A collaboration between SCE, eCornell, and the nonprofit National Education Equity Lab is giving high school students in underserved communities the opportunity to enroll in credit classes while also gaining the confidence to recognize they can excel in college, including in the Ivy League. Mathematics for Secondary School Teachers The Mathematics for Secondary School Teachers program (MATH 5080) offers a series of four full-day workshops for area secondary school mathematics teachers. During these sessions participants examine the principles underlying the content of the secondary school mathematics curriculum, including connections with the history of mathematics, technology, and mathematics education research. Teachers may earn either one Cornell credit or in-service hours. Who We Are A brief history Mission & outreach Diversity & inclusion International initiatives Charles W. Jermy, Jr., Interim Dean Staff About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top