Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs About Contact Search Conversational English for International Students & Scholars: Spring/Fall A noncredit program for international scholars, their spouses, students, and other visitors seeking to improve basic English-language skills Due to COVID-19, the English for International Students & Scholars Program for Spring 2022 will be offered entirely online. For information, see Cornell's coronavirus website or contact us. Improve your English skills & learn about U.S. culture This online, part-time, noncredit course is for international scholars, their spouses, students, and other visitors seeking to improve their basic English-language skills. The focus is on "Life in the United States—Communicating Across Cultures," with a special emphasis on proficiency in spoken English. The conversational activities, interactive presentations, and discussions will give you practice in speaking, pronunciation, and listening. The course, which meets online from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. ET every Thursday, is taught by David George, who has more than 25 years' experience teaching English to international students and scholars. Conversational English for International Students & Scholars: Spring/Fall Spring 2022: January 27–May 5 OR Fall 2022: TBD Open to ages 18+ Who's eligible? Part-time, Noncredit, Online Spring 2022: $515 Fall 2022: $TBD Contact us Register by January 27, 2022 (For late registration, contact us) Get updates Highlights Engage in speaking and listening exercises to help you improve your basic English-language skills. Participate in reading and grammar activities to reinforce your vocabulary and conversational skills. Gain insight into American culture and history. Student experiences "It's both educational and fun. The professor is very enthusiastic and teaches very well! The presentations, class discussions, readings, and trips were most helpful." "This course is very helpful for the student who wants to know more about America as well as improve English skills." You might also be interested in... English for International Students & Scholars: Winter Program Administrative Management Institute English for International Students & Scholars: Summer Program See all programs & courses Get updates Professional Studies is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top