Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Winter Session This January, take a class with Cornell faculty Earn up to four credits in just three weeks Cornell's Winter Session features online courses taught by outstanding Cornell University faculty members. Enrollment is open to all—from undergrads and high school students to alumni and any interested adult. Winter Session is ideal for students wishing to earn credits before the spring semester, catch up or get ahead in their studies, and really get to know their professors. In just three weeks you can fulfill a requirement, complete a minor or double major, take a course not offered during another semester, explore an academic field, and/or focus intensely on one subject, without distractions. Areas of study range from the arts and business to the sciences. View Winter Session courses Learn about online study Winter Session January 3–21, 2022 See the academic calendar Open admissions See registration Earn credits & an official Cornell transcript $1,620/credit hour See tuition & aid Contact us Enrollment begins October 15, 2021 View winter courses Top 5 reasons to take a Winter Session course Fulfill requirements and lighten your course load Possibly accelerate your degree Work closely with Cornell faculty Grow personally and professionally Immerse yourself in a subject And for a lighthearted look at Winter pastimes at Cornell, check out this Cornellians story, "The Cold Comforts of a Big Red Winter." Faculty During Cornell’s Winter Session, you’ll enjoy the same great education that’s offered during our fall and spring semesters. Our Winter Session, unlike those at many other universities, features regular, full-time faculty members and provide an unparalleled opportunity to get to know these outstanding professors, many of whom are leaders in their fields. Student experiences "My Winter Session program was fantastic. I have never taken an online course before, so my expectations were low, but I was completely blown away. I took the course because I desperately needed four credits, and I was so lucky to take a Winter Session class that provided those credits in a way that was engaging, fun, and interesting. I really learned a lot." "I loved my Winter Session course. It helped me decide that I want to pursue health economics as a profession in the future and that I want to go into health care consulting." Kndeya Gebrewahed You might also be interested in... Part-time Study International Study Abroad Programs Summer Session See all programs & courses View winter courses Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top