Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Courses for Credit Student Services Life on Campus Health Services Summer 2022 students in on-campus courses Be sure to review the COVID-19 vaccination requirements and testing expectations before coming to campus. For instructions, see part-time study and COVID-19 and contact us if you have questions. Contact us Cornell Health Services Cornell Health, centrally located at 110 Ho Plaza next to Willard Straight Hall, provides medical care, counseling, pharmacy, and support services for students in Ithaca. Limited services are also available to Cornelll employees. See who Cornell Health serves Appointments are required for most services. However, students with urgent health problems may be seen on a walk-in basis. Hours Cornell Health is open Monday through Friday during the summer and winter sessions Monday through Saturday during the fall and spring semesters See all hours If you have an urgent medical or mental health concern when Cornell Health is closed, you can call 24/7 to consult with a health care provider: 607.255.5155. Confidentiality All medical and mental health services at Cornell Health are confidential, and health care records are completely separate from all other university records. Cornell Health uses an electronic health records system, which provides a patient portal to facilitate secure communication with students. New & Visiting Student Health Requirements New and visiting students taking six or more credits on campus are required to complete Cornell's New Student Health Requirements to comply with state and federal laws, as well as with university policy. These students must provide documentation showing that they've met the university’s immunization requirements, and submit forms related to health history, emergency contact information, and privacy and consent. Find instructions and forms on the Cornell Health site You are expected to meet these health requirements before your program begins. If you are not able to do so, you must meet your requirements as soon as you arrive at Cornell to avoid a late fee and possible disenrollment from your program. Students taking fewer than six credits have no health requirements. Student Health Fee All summer students in on-campus courses, and students taking 12 or more credits in on-campus fall, winter, or spring courses, are required to pay the university’s Student Health Fee. These students have a $10 copay for most Cornell Health visits (some visits have no charge). Exception: Cornell employees do not pay the health fee. Learn more about the cost for care at Cornell Health Other students may still use Cornell Health's services and should refer to their insurance and billing page to learn about accepted insurance plans and payment options. Student Health Plan & Insurance Requirements Summer Session students Enrollment in Cornell's summer Student Health Plan (SHP) is mandatory for international students (with few exceptions). U.S. students may choose to enroll in SHP if they do not have adequate health insurance during the summer program. Learn more about health insurance requirements. Learn more about requirements for summer students Winter Session and Fall/Spring students Cornell's health insurance requirements apply to degree-seeking students taking 12 or more credits in on-campus fall, spring, or winter session classes. Exception: This is not applicable to Cornell employees. Learn more about winter, fall, and spring requirements Student Services Academics Life on campus Housing Dining Health services Safety Activities Getting to Cornell Getting around campus Petitions & appeals Student & faculty portal Policies Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top