Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Apply Accepted Students Search Explore your future major. Investigate a potential career. Experience the challenge of college study with Cornell faculty and earn college credit while still a sophomore, junior, or senior in high school. Courses 736 Cities (and 56 countries) represented among our participants 2,340+ High school students in our programs last year 95% Courses taught by Cornell faculty members Apply now for summer courses on campus and online Challenge yourself with a real college experience. Spend 3, 6, or 9 weeks taking fascinating classes with Cornell faculty, earning credits, and prepping for college admissions. Learn about summer on-campus and online options. Apply now Top 3 reasons to enroll in precollege studies at Cornell Earn credits and a Cornell transcript You’ll enroll in regular Cornell University courses alongside undergraduates, earn an official Cornell transcript, and gain undergraduate credits that are generally transferable toward a degree at Cornell or elsewhere. Study with top Ivy League faculty You’ll work with some of the brightest, most accomplished experts in their fields who love to teach and who share a passion for learning that’s contagious. Experience college life firsthand You’ll prepare for college by experiencing life in and out of the classroom at one of the world’s top universities. You’ll meet people from across the globe and learn as much about yourself as you will about your class subjects. Student experiences "A life-changing experience. Cornell fostered my curiosity and helped me grow so much. The class was immersive, fun, and eye opening. My professors were wonderful. I gained an advantage in the college admissions process, as I now know what I’m looking for in a school. I’m addition, I feel less anxious about college life." Alejandra Gonzalez "Fantastic... Your professors, your classmates, your dorm neighbors are all there to help you really learn about your class, to help you learn from one another, but most of all, to help you learn about yourself. It’s a phenomenal experience, and definitely one I will remember always. If you are given the chance, do it." Xue Shao Get updates about Precollege Studies Email address Follow us on social Tag your posts #cornell to share your experiences. Precollege Studies is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top