Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Courses for Credit Register Register for Credit Courses Cornell Employees & Retirees Enroll now in summer 2022 courses Summer Session enrollment is now open. Cornell employees Eligibility Cornell employees may be eligible to take up to four credits of tuition-free study in on-campus or online courses each semester. To determine your eligibility, contact the Office of Human Resources (607.255.3936). Note: Cornell professors and academic staff who hold voting rights at any college, university, or graduate facility and who wish to take classes must register as general registrants or auditors (noncredit, with transcript) and the full tuition is the student’s responsibility. Employee tuition and fees Up to four credits per semester: No tuition charge, but you're responsible for any course fees. More than four credits in a semester: You'll pay full tuition and any course fees. In most cases, the tuition waiver does not apply to physical education courses or participation in a special program. For these, you must pay the tuition charge and any fees in full and follow appropriate registration procedures. To register Cornell employees in the EDP program If you're a current employee registered in the Employee Degree Program (EDP), please use Student Center for Summer, Fall, and Spring registration. For Winter registration, please follow the steps on the page for current Cornell undergraduate and graduate students. Cornell employees not in the EDP program If you’re a current employee, but not participating in the Employee Degree Program, you will register via the Cornell SCE online registration system following the steps below. Contact us if you have any questions about this process. A: Request approvals/permissions as needed During your registration process, you'll be asked to request and submit email approvals from your director supervisor and department head. Please send an email to both individuals requesting approval to enroll. Include the class number and title, the number of credits, and the meeting pattern for the class so that your supervisor can accurately assess the time commitment required. For example: Dear supervisor/department head, Per instructions for Cornell employees wishing to enroll in courses, I am requesting your permission to take the following class(es): AEM 1200 Introduction to Business Management, 3 credits, February 8-May 25, 2021. If you approve, please reply to this email at your earliest convenience with your okay. I will then forward your response to the registrar at the School of Continuing Education to complete my enrollment. In addition, for Fall/Spring courses, you must obtain permission from your instructor, department, or college registrar to join a course. Note: This approval does not guarantee a spot in the class if it fills. To determine from whom you need permission, see the list of required enrollment approvals by college. Use the same email format as above to request permission. When you have all permissions in hand, please forward them, in one email message, to the SCE registrar at cusce@cornell.edu. B. Register online Register online This form will submit your registration to the SCE Registrar’s Office. Please keep in mind the registration deadline for your session: Summer Session calendar Winter Session calendar Fall/Spring Study calendar We will notify you when your enrollment is complete. Cornell retirees Eligibility Cornell retirees are eligible to register in up to six credit hours of tuition-free study in on-campus or online courses each semester. Retiree tuition and fees Up to six credits per semester: No tuition charge, but you're responsible for any course fees. More than six credits in a semester: You'll pay full tuition and any course fees. In most cases, the tuition waiver does not apply to physical education courses or participation in a special program. For these, you must pay the tuition charge and any fees in full and follow appropriate registration procedures. To register You will register via the Cornell SCE online registration system following the steps below. A. Request permission to register, if needed If you wish to register in Summer/Winter courses, you may skip to Step B. To register in Fall/Spring courses, you must first obtain permission from your instructor, department, or college registrar to join a course. Note: This approval does not guarantee a spot in the class if it fills. To determine from whom you need permission, see the list of required enrollment approvals by college. Here is a sample of the email you should send: Hello, Per instructions for Cornell retirees wishing to enroll in courses, I am requesting your permission to take the following class(es): AEM 1200 Introduction to Business Management, 3 credits, February 8-May 25, 2021. If you approve, please reply to this email at your earliest convenience with your okay. I will then forward your response to the registrar at the School of Continuing Education to complete my enrollment. When you have all permissions in hand, please forward them, in one email message, to the SCE registrar at cusce@cornell.edu. B. Register online Register online This form will submit your registration to the SCE Registrar’s Office. Please keep in mind the registration deadline for your session: Summer Session calendar Winter Session calendar Fall/Spring Study calendar We will notify you when your enrollment is complete. Contact us if you have any questions about this process. Register Register for credit courses Cornell undergrad/grad students Visiting students/general registrants International students High school students Cornell employees & retirees Local exchange program students Special registration categories International student information Students with disabilities Onboarding Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top