Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Part-time Study Continue your education, further your career, or simply have fun learning something new Summer part-time study Read about Summer 2022 plans. What is part-time study at Cornell? Part-time study is a way for you to earn college credit at Cornell without enrolling in a degree program. Whether you want to explore a new interest, enhance your resume, or strengthen your professional skills, you can choose from thousands of regular university courses year-round. You'll study alongside Cornell undergraduate and graduate students and have access to university libraries and other campus facilities. Your grades and credits will be recorded on an official Cornell transcript. You can generally transfer these credits to a degree at Cornell or elsewhere—but always check with your school or institution. Eligibility: Anyone high school age and older who is not currently a Cornell degree candidate is eligible for part-time study, including Cornell employees and retirees (tuition waivers may apply), Cornell alumni, executives and professionals, area residents, high school students, and international students. How to get started Select your course(s) from the Summer Session, Winter Session, or Fall/Spring roster. To enroll, visit our registration page. Part-time Study Classes offered year-round See dates & deadlines Open admissions See registration Earn credits & an official Cornell transcript $1,620/credit hour See tuition & aid Contact us View summer courses Top 5 reasons to do part-time study at Cornell Study with Cornell faculty Explore a new interest Enhance your resume with credits and a Cornell transcript Strengthen your professional skills Benefit from an Ivy League education Faculty As a part-time student, you'll interact closely with world-class faculty and study alongside Cornell undergraduate and graduate students. This diverse population is here to help you push yourself and your ideas further than you could ever push them on your own. Student experiences "The instruction was top-notch. I learned a lot and was inspired to pursue a graduate education." Serenna McCloud, Cornell employee "I was able to juggle the class, my family life, and my work... I learned a great deal, and since the class I took is directly related to my job, my job skills have been enhanced." Tom Jordan, Cornell employee You might also be interested in... Summer Session Winter Session International Study Abroad Programs See all programs & courses View summer courses Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top