Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Courses for Credit About Part-time Study & COVID-19 Summer Study Summer Session 2022 classes will be held either in person or online. Check your class's instruction mode on the summer roster to determine whether it will be taught in person or remotely. COVID-19 vaccination, booster, and testing expectations 1. You may not come to campus before submitting proof of being fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Individuals are considered fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving their final dose of an FDA- or WHO-authorized or approved COVID-19 vaccine. Proof of vaccination must be uploaded via Proof of Vaccination Tool in the Daily Check Portal. Students attending classes fully remotely do not need to submit proof of vaccination. Attending fully remotely means you may not come to campus for any reason. 2. It is also highly recommended that you receive a COVID-19 booster as soon as you're eligible. Obtaining a booster prior to coming to campus is highly recommended as supplies in Tompkins County are limited. Cornell will continue to monitor the benefits of boosters and may require them in the future. 3. In addition, you must take a COVID-19 PCR or Antigen test no more than 72 hours before arriving on the Cornell campus. If your test is negative, you may proceed to campus. If your test is positive, you must contact the SCE registrar immediately and isolate and remain where you are for the required isolation period. Once your isolation period is complete, you are welcome to travel to Ithaca. Additional information It is critical for the university to have accurate data on the extent of COVID-19 immunizations within the Cornell community in order to make informed decisions about safe campus operations. Medical and religious exemptions will be accommodated, but the expectation will be that our campuses and classrooms will overwhelmingly consist of vaccinated individuals, greatly reducing the risk of infection for all. Individuals who are not able to obtain vaccination prior to arrival, or whose vaccination is not recognized by New York state, will be expected to be vaccinated as soon after their arrival as possible. For the safety of everyone in our community, students must not enter campus before they are fully vaccinated and have received a booster dose when eligible. Students are expected to familiarize themselves with all COVID-related requirements, such as masking and testing. Information and announcements can be found at Cornell's COVID-19 page. Note: Individuals who may need disability accommodations should contact Student Disability Services. Please contact us if you have any questions. Academic calendar See dates and deadlines for general updates to the academic calendar. Additional information Please review Cornell's page on coronavirus information for students for academic information, grading, access to resources, and much more. If you have questions about courses and more, please contact the SCE registrar's department at Phone: 607.255.4987 Email: cusce@cornell.edu About Free summer events History Our faculty Information for faculty Contact us Summer study and COVID-19 Part-time study and COVID-19 Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top