Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Academics Internships Student Life Belonging at CIW About Apply Search CIW Summer Term Spend your summer living, learning & interning in DC In the Cornell in Washington (CIW) Summer Term, you'll work full-time at an internship in D.C., take a Cornell course for credit, and enjoy signature D.C. experiences. D.C. is arguably the best place in the world to have a summer internship; you'll find abundant opportunities for any interest from government, law, economics, and social justice to health/medicine, environment, international affairs, media/communications, and the arts. CIW staff will help you identify the best opportunities and ensure that your internship applications are competitive. In addition to attending your internship during the day, you'll take at least one four-credit Cornell course in the evening. On the weekends, CIW offers unique D.C. experiences, such as visiting Smithsonian museums, catching a Nationals baseball game, and attending a performance at the Kennedy Center. You'll live in comfortable apartments (each with its own full kitchen and private bathroom) and take your class in the Cornell owned-and-operated Wolpe Center, in the lovely and centrally located neighborhood of Dupont Circle. Make the most of your summer by spending it with Cornell in Washington! Summer courses CIW Summer Term June 6-July 29, 2022 See the calendar Undergraduates 4 credits Official Cornell transcript Tuition (4 credits), housing & fees: $9,707 What's included? Contact us Apply by March 18, 2022 Rolling enrollment Apply now Summer highlights Explore your passions and jumpstart your career with an internship in DC. Experience city life in the heart of Dupont Circle, one of the most popular and vibrant neighborhoods in DC. Network with Cornell in Washington alumni, agency representatives from various governmental departments, leaders in your specific field, Cornell Club of Washington members, and more. Faculty During Cornell's summer term, you’ll enjoy the same great education that's offered during our fall and spring semesters. You'll enjoy the unparalleled opportunity to work closely with our outstanding associate director, a leader in his field. See faculty David Silbey Associate director, Cornell in Washington Ronald Christie Founder and CEO, Christie Strategies Student experiences "CIW in the summer is very different than CIW during the academic year as there is far more free time to take a real break and explore some part of ourselves outside our 'normal academic patterns.' I left DC with this other-worldly knowledge of career options and a greater understanding and appreciation for my own personal and academic/career development outside of the common pre-med track." Kirkland Sugrim, CIW Summer '19 "During my CIW summer I worked at Resolution Economics, a litigation consulting firm focused on providing economic and statistical analysis in expert witness testimony. I helped analyze employment data in discrimination cases using a programming language called SAS." Ryan Thompson, CIW Summer '19 Apply now Contact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top