Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Trips & Courses Travel Info Faculty Experts About Register Search Register now for summer CAU! Enjoy weeklong classes between July 10 and 23, 2022. Connect with some of Cornell’s finest instructors, experience the joy of learning, and make new friends while relishing the beauty of Ithaca in the summer. Learn more. View summer courses Education vacations around the world, on campus, and online, with Cornell faculty Cornell's Adult University (CAU) offers unforgettable travel adventures and inspiring summer courses open to all Trips & Courses Top 3 reasons to take a trip or course with CAU Top-notch faculty, inspiring subjects CAU trips and courses are taught by some of Cornell's most engaging faculty members. Passionate about their subjects, with access to behind-the-scenes tours, our faculty will help you delve deeply into new (or favorite) topics and places. Warm and welcoming participants CAUers are known for their great camaraderie and interest in compelling places and subjects—so you’ll enjoy the wonders of the world with others who share your curiosity and sense of adventure. Stress-free trips and courses Whether you’re traveling overseas with us or vacationing on campus, a dedicated team will take care of all the details so you’re free to focus on the subject matter and enjoy your CAU experience to the fullest. Participant experiences "Simply a fabulous week. Intellectual stimulation, great conversation... Plenty of time to take walks. Each phase of the day was padded with fun and yet time to nap, too, if we wanted. I loved coming and look forward to our return next summer!" Sue Thau "This study tour was spectacular! Far beyond my expectations. The Cornell staff and faculty were great and the group was outstanding." Jonathan Rubin Get updates about Education Vacations Email address Follow us on social Tag your posts #cornellcau to share your experiences and maybe even be featured on our homepage. Cornell's Adult University (CAU) Education Vacations are part of Cornell's Division of Alumni Affairs and Development Contact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top