Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Who We Are News & Events Give to SCE Contact SCE COVID-19 Search Who We Are Any person, any study, any time, any place. The School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions (Cornell SCE) brings Cornell’s distinctive education programs to anyone who is passionate about learning. Educational opportunities At SCE, we offer the outstanding educational opportunities for which Cornell is known, to students of all ages, in as many subject areas and formats as possible, year-round. Join us for credit and non-credit courses; full semester classes and one-day executive seminars; on-campus, off-campus, and online courses; and precollege programs. And if we don't have what you're looking for, we'll help you design it. Mission & outreach Administrative staff Cornell SCE is led by Interim Dean Charles W. Jermy, Jr., and supported by professional and administrative staff members. Staff directory Charles W. Jermy Jr. 358 Faculty members who taught SCE classes last year (7/18 - 6/19) 6,462 Students enrolled in SCE classes last year 22,458 Credit hours taken by SCE students last year "I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study." Ezra Cornell Cornell University founder, 1868 A history of accessible education We work hard to live up to Ezra Cornell's vision, and we proudly extend it to include "at any time, in any place." SCE traces its roots to 1876, when Cornell offered classes to help school teachers further their education over the summer. Since then, we have offered programs at times and in places and ways that best meet the needs of our diverse student body. Explore our history About SCE Dedicated to a diverse, inclusive environment We're dedicated to pursuing a welcoming and inclusive environment, a diverse student body, and an open learning environment that's free from bigotry. Supporting international students and experiences We offer study abroad options for all students as well as educational programs and support services for international students who come to campus. Committed to all learners Not sure which program is right for you? Contact us! The SCE staff provides advising to students registered in SCE courses. About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top