Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Courses for Credit Register International Student Information Welcome, international students! At Cornell, you'll be part of a multicultural community that includes students from almost every corner of the globe. You'll be well supported by our Office of Global Learning, and you'll find that Ithaca, New York, is a friendly and vibrant small city. What programs can I take? On-campus options Consider enrolling in one or more regular on-campus courses. For enrollment instructions, see international student enrollment. If your first language is not English, consider taking the English for International Students and Scholars Program (EISS) before beginning your studies. EISS is offered in the summer, winter, and fall/spring terms. Online options If you can't make it to campus, consider taking a Cornell course online this winter, spring, or summer. Do you have test score or visa requirements? You can read about our minimum test scores on the international student enrollment page. Visas are not required for online study. What are my housing options? On-campus housing is available for undergraduate and graduate/professional students participating in Summer Session. The university does not provide housing for fall, spring, or winter part-time students. For more information, see housing. Benefits of taking credit courses at Cornell When you attend this world-renowned university, you can expect to Focus on academics as you study with professors at the top of their fields. Become familiar with the different teaching and learning styles at an Ivy League institution. Dramatically improve your English writing and speaking skills. Earn academic credits that generally can be applied toward an undergraduate degree at Cornell or another university. Have the opportunity to request recommendation letters from Cornell professors. Participate in fun activities that will introduce you to American culture. Interact and build friendships with students from around the world. Learn more about American universities. Questions? Contact us for more information or if you'd like to be put in touch with a student translator. Cornell WeChat channel in China Scan this code to connect with the Cornell China Center’s WeChat channel, "CornellBeijingCenter." Register Register for credit courses Special registration categories International student information Students with disabilities Onboarding Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top