Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Courses for Credit Register Register for Credit Courses High School Students Eligibility If you will have graduated from high school by the time you start your course: Please do not use this page. Instead, review your program options on the Courses for Credit site and follow the registration instructions under the visiting students category. If you will still be in high school at the time you start your course: Please review your precollege options below. Precollege study options High school students are invited to take courses at Cornell year-round. On-campus and online options are available. Visit Cornell SCE Precollege Studies To register for online courses Visit the online courses section of the Cornell University Precollege Studies website to learn more and register. To register for on-campus courses International students Learn about the Summer Residential Program and follow the international applicant instructions. U.S. students from outside Ithaca Learn about the Summer Residential Program and follow the instructions at how to apply. Local students You may apply to the Summer Residential Program (you will have the option to live on campus or at home in the Ithaca area). Follow the instructions at how to apply. Or, with permission, you may register directly in on-campus classes during the fall, spring, or summer sessions (you must live at home in the Ithaca area). See On-Campus Courses for Local High School Students. Questions? For more information, call the Precollege Studies office at 607.255.6203 or email precollege@cornell.edu. Register Register for credit courses Cornell undergrad/grad students Visiting students/general registrants International students High school students Cornell employees & retirees Local exchange program students Special registration categories International student information Students with disabilities Onboarding Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top