Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Who We Are News & Events Give to SCE Contact SCE COVID-19 Search School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions General Policies & Important Disclaimers Diversity, inclusion & equality of opportunity Cornell University's history of diversity and inclusion encourages all students, faculty, and staff to support a diverse and inclusive university in which to work, study, teach, research, and serve. For more information, see the Department of Inclusion and Belonging site. No person shall be denied admission to any educational program or activity or be denied employment on the basis of any legally prohibited discrimination involving, but not limited to, such factors as race, color, creed, religion, national or ethnic origin, marital status, citizenship, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, disability, or protected veteran status. Cornell University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. Concerns and complaints related to equal opportunity in education and in employment based on aspects of diversity protected under federal, state, and local law, including questions regarding or complaints arising under Cornell Policy 6.4, “Prohibited Bias, Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual and Related Misconduct,” should be directed to the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX at titleix@cornell.edu for sexual harassment or sexual misconduct, or at equity@cornell.edu for other protected-status harassment, prohibited discrimination, or bias. Information about reporting options and resources for support are available on the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX website. Inquiries may also be directed to U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 32 Old Slip, 26th Floor, New York, NY 10005-2500; 646.428.3800; OCR.NewYork@ed.gov. The Sexual Harassment and Assault Response and Education website at share.cornell.edu provides ready access to reporting, services, support, education, and advocacy related to all forms of sexual misconduct. Requests for information about services for Cornell faculty and staff members, applicants for employment, and visitors with disabilities who have special needs, as well as related questions or requests for special assistance, can be directed to the Department of Inclusion and Belonging, Cornell University, 150 Day Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853-2801 (telephone: 607.255.3976). Students with disabilities should contact Student Disability Services, Cornell Health, Level 5, 110 Ho Plaza, Ithaca, New York 14853-3102 (telephone 607.254.4545; Deaf/HoH: via 711 Relay). For additional information, see the Office of Human Resources' The Department of Inclusion and Belonging site and the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions' (SCE) page on our commitment to diversity and inclusion. Visitors should consult Cornell's Accessibility Information pages. Student admission & enrollment The deans as officers of Cornell University reserve the right to deny admission to any applicant, to discontinue the enrollment of any student whose personal actions are detrimental to the university community or are in violation of any applicable code of conduct, and to require the withdrawal of students whose continuance at the university would be detrimental to themselves or to others. It is the responsibility of students to become familiar with the academic regulations and procedures relating to their courses of study at the university. In general, enrollment in SCE programs is contingent upon meeting all course prerequisites, completing enrollment and registration procedures and requirements, and fulfilling any other applicable requirements; and is subject to space availability in your selected courses. Student registration Cornell University registration is the official recognition of a student’s relationship with the university and is the basic authorization for a student’s access to Cornell, its education and services. Completion of registration is essential to enable the university to plan for and provide education and services, guided by the highest standards for efficiency and safety. Cornell assumes certain legal responsibilities for persons who participate as students in the university environment. As a result, specific requirements must be met in order to become a registered student and be permitted to attend classes. To become a registered student at Cornell, you must Settle all financial accounts, including current semester tuition Satisfy New York State and university health requirements In addition, Cornell students must have no holds from their college, the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards, Cornell Health, or the bursar. Cornell does not permit retroactive registration and does not record courses or grades for unregistered persons. Registered students may attend a class in which they are not enrolled only with special permission. Enrollment in courses does not constitute or imply university registration. Unauthorized, unregistered persons who use Cornell University services and attend classes have the potential to displace properly registered students, use university resources inappropriately, and jeopardize the security of the university. The university reserves the right to prohibit unregistered persons from attending classes and to require such persons to leave the university environment. Programs & courses subject to change The programs, courses, and curricula described on this website and the teaching personnel and dates listed herein are subject to change at any time by official action of Cornell University. The rules and regulations stated on this website are for information only and in no way constitute a contract between the student and Cornell University. The university reserves the right to change any regulation or requirement at any time. Failure to read this website does not excuse students from the rules and procedures described herein. Personal factors, illness, or contradictory advice from any source are not acceptable grounds for seeking exemption from these rules and procedures. Student conduct Program registrants are subject to the general regulations governing student conduct that apply to all other students of the university, with slight modifications to cover the special circumstances of the program in which the student is enrolled. You are expected to be familiar with the contents of The Student Code of Conduct The Code of Academic Integrity Copies of these materials are also available from the Office of the Dean of Students, 538 Willard Straight Hall, from the SCE office in B20 Day Hall, and from the website of the Cornell University Policy Office. The regulations and codes—products of extensive deliberation involving students and members of the faculty and administration—are statements of standards and regulations necessary to ensure maximum individual freedom and the effective functioning of the university as an educational institution. In addition, any student living in a university residence is responsible for being familiar with the specific rules that apply to the place of residence. Copies of the rules may be obtained from head residents and resident advisors. Generally, the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards is responsible for handling violations of the Student Code of Conduct. The responsibility for administration of faculty and university policy with respect to academic integrity is exercised by the dean of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions. Image release Cornell University and the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions often record or photograph activities in public and non-public areas, such as classrooms, for use in a variety of media. When you register with SCE, you will have an opportunity to indicate whether or not you grant the university permission to record or photograph you (or your child/ward) in non-public areas and use your (or your child's/ward's) likeness, image, and/or voice in promotional, informational, or other materials. Policies Copyright statement Land acknowledgment About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top