Over 2,000,000 images from various collections of rare books, manuscripts, papyri, photographs and sheet music are available for your viewing. Each collection has its own web site that is unrestricted in the interests of knowledge and learning. Visit SIMS, the Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies. Learn about the many varied Collections and link to their sites. Lawrence J. Schoenberg Symposium on Manuscript Studies in the Digital Age 9th Annual Schoenberg Symposium, watch on YouTube. Quick links to the individual collection home pages Lawrence J. Schoenberg Manuscripts, Catalog and Database Penn in Hand: Selected Manuscripts Genealogical Chronicle of the Kings of England to Edward IV Penn/Cambridge Genizah Fragments project Philadelphia Neighborhoods: Histories, Plans and Futures Edgar Fahs Smith Chemistry Collection Horace Howard Furness Shakespeare Collection The English Renaissance in Context Theodore Dreiser Web Source Freedman Jewish Music Archives Lorraine Beitler Collection of the Dreyfus Affair Crisis of the Union: the Civil War Penn in the Age of Franklin Sabato Morais Ledger Philadelphia General Hospital Photo Collection Marian Anderson Photographs Keffer Sheet Music Collection Penn Library On Line Exhibits Penn Culinary Collections Mary Binney Wheeler Image Collection Seymour deRicci Digitized Archive Glossed Psalter: Psalms and Canticles The Moldovan Family Holy Land Map Collection Search one of the individual collections Schoenberg Collection: Late Medieval and Early Modern Manuscripts Schoenberg Database of Manuscripts Penn/Cambridge Genizah Fragments Philadelphia Neighborhood City Planning Reports Crisis of the Union: Abolitionism Penn in the Age of Franklin: Text and Documents Sabato Morais Ledger Freedman Jewish Music Archives The Search Page from the former site is still available for hard to find materials. permission & fair use of images contact us projects Since 1996 SCETI has been enhancing the research and scholarly use of rare books, manuscripts and other primary source materials by making them easily accessible to the worldwide community. We create archive-quality digital facsimiles and make them available online through web sites tailored to the each individual collection. Several of our projects are a collaboration between the University of Pennsylvania Library and other libraries, museums and private collections. Startup costs were met through a generous gift from Library Overseer Lawrence J. Schoenberg. SCETI has also received grants from federal and private foundations for specific projects including an NEH Challenge Grant. Image Formats, Standards, Equipment, Processes U Penn Home Page | U Penn Libraries | Digital Penn | Rare Book & Manuscript Library