Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters: Search This Site Search Cornell Main Menu Search Home Home Planning Guide and Policies Event Planning Guide Space Use Best Practices Guidelines for the Event Request Process Space-Related Policies University Events Team (UET) Event Scheduling Event Resources Room Type Glossary Location Features Glossary Room Setup Diagrams and Reference Information Event Categories Glossary Event Type Glossary Academic Scheduling Barton and Bailey Exam Protocols Class Scheduling Business Cycle Department Preferences and Class Requirements Related Policies Roles and Responsibilities Systems and Integrations Registrar Building Codes and Contacts Getting Help Log In to Scheduling@Cornell Don't have a NetID? Tech Help How-To Instructions Using Scheduling@Cornell Frequently Asked Questions Contact Scheduling@Cornell Support Location Add or Update Form Log in to Scheduling@Cornell Welcome to the Academic and Event Scheduling Website Welcome to the Academic and Event Scheduling Website The website contains information and links to help you schedule space for an event, meeting, info session, social gathering, access important academic dates and information, and much more. Be sure to check the Announcements for updates, training opportunities, and more. ! NOTICE (last updated on 1/3/22) Starting January 3, 2022, there will be a two-day buffer for when you may submit an event request; Schedulers will continue to have five (5) business days to respond to the request. This two-day buffer will restrict you from requesting space for that day and the following day. Quick Links Guidelines for the Event Request Process - The Event Request Process assists event planners in connecting with university officials and other university partners to make their event planning experience efficient, painless, and successful. The Event Request Process encompasses university policies, state and federal laws, department and unit policies, and Scheduling policies and procedures. Event Scheduling - Before you start your request, get familiar with the process, available resources, Scheduling@Cornell terminology, and usage. Student Organization Scheduling Guidelines (Campus Activities) Frequently Asked Questions Announcements Scheduling@Cornell Training Opportunities Available training opportunities Quick Tip: Copying Event Request Forms Making the creation of the Event Request Form quicker and easier! Let's Get Started Meeting or Info Session Banquet or Reception Rehearsal Space Speaker or Lecture Social Gathering or Dance Party Performance Event Other Type of Reservation Related Links Log In to Scheduling@Cornell Contact the Scheduling Support Team Space Management Guidance Information Partners Cornell University Registrar Student and Campus Life If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.