Skip to Main Content | UNM Homepage | Accessibility Statement The University of New Mexico UNM A-Z StudentInfo FastInfo myUNM Directory Home Registration Information Related Information Campus Map Course Material Information Course Wait List Policy Final Exams Final Exam Schedule - Fall 2021 Final Exam Schedule - Spring 2022 Use this guide to learn more about Financial Aid and the next steps after completing your FAFSA How to read the schedule and understand class delivery. Semester Deadlines Live Chat with us Monday-Friday 8-5pm or ask a question and get an email response. UNM >Home Schedule of Classes Online Public Search Course locations are being updated in the Schedule of Classes, on an ongoing basis, with additional directional information. Some classes will have to move from their usual modality and locations to different rooms—it will be important for students to review their schedules carefully prior to the start of classes. Search for Classes How to Search for Classes Login to Register for Courses Registration Tips   Use College Scheduler to create your ideal schedule.  To view more information about the schedule planning tool       click here         Where and how a class is delivered is designated in the schedule Instruction Meeting Types 100% Face-to Face: All course components are delivered in person and on campus. Small classes or seminars, art classes, studio work, labs, internships, clinics, other skills-based needs. See schedule for classroom location and times. Hybrid: Courses meet in person at a scheduled time and also remotely at a scheduled time (instructors may organize successive in-person meetings with sub-groups of students). Some group meetings occur remotely via Zoom, Teams, or other platform. Classes or seminars, discussion-based, inquiry- or project- based classes, large classes for which scheduled class times can be used for active learning for smaller groups, other lab, studio, internship, or skills-based classes. See schedule for classroom location/times and remote scheduled times; log in to course on UNMLearn (or platform designated by instructor) for remote meetings at specified times. Online MAX: An online course consists of 100% online instruction. Online courses may require regularly scheduled online meeting times or be offered without any required meetings. Check the Schedule of Classes for any required online meeting times. Log in to course on UNMLearn (and/or platform designated by instructor) for completion of course work. A Quick View *NOT Compatible with Internet Explorer. This view of the schedule of classes is only updated every 24 hours. Search for Classes or Login to Register for up to the minute changes to courses.   © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University Accessibility Legal Contact UNM New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard