Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Texas Tech University Scholars Home Home Scholars Organizations Grants Research Scholarly Activities Search by expertise, name or affiliation Cookies As explained in our Privacy Policy, the Service collects information through the use of "cookies" or similar technologies. Cookies are widely used in order to make websites and applications work, or work more efficiently, and help them remember certain information about you, either for the duration of your visit (using a "session" cookie) or for repeat visits (using a "persistent" cookie). The cookies used on this website are as follows: Strictly necessarry cookies. These cookies are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas of the website. For example, authentication and security cookies are used to identify and recognize registered users and to enable them to gain access to requested content or features. Without these cookies, services you have asked for cannot be provided. Functionality cookies. These cookies allow our websites to remember the choices you make and your account preferences and to provide enhanced, more personal features. For example, these cookies will remember your log-in details. Performance cookies. These are analytics and research cookies that allow us to collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often, and if they get error messages from web pages. This helps us to improve the way the website works and allows us to test different ideas on the site. The table below explains performance and functionality cookies from our suppliers and their purpose. Please note that the cookies and other technologies may change over time. Service Purpose More Info Adobe Analytics These web analytics cookies, provided by Adobe Systems Inc., are used to differentiate requests from different browsers and to store helpful information that an application can use later. They may also be used to associate browsing information to customer records. In particular, Analytics uses cookies to anonymously define new visitors, help analyze clickstream data, and track historical activity on the website, such as response to particular campaigns or the length of the sales cycle. See Adobe Analytics Cookies Controls Pure User Cookie This cookie is created by Pure and used to store profile information. When a user first logs into Pure, a cookie is stored on their browser. This is used to identify the user and provide access to the user's profile editor directly from their Person profile page. How to refuse the use of cookies You can prevent your browser from accepting certain cookies, have the browser require your consent before a new cookie is placed in your browser, or block cookies altogether by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser's privacy preferences menu. To avoid receiving cookies on the browser of your mobile device, you will need to refer to its user manual. For information on how to opt-out of cookies set by our suppliers, please visit the applicable links listed in the tables above. The links below will help you find the settings for some common browsers: Manage cookie settings in Chrome and Chrome Android and Chrome iOS Manage cookie settings in Safari and Safari iOS Manage cookie settings in Firefox "Manage cookie settings in Internet Explorer "Manage cookie settings in Opera Powered by Pure, Scopus & Elsevier Fingerprint Engine™ © 2022 Elsevier B.V We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content. By continuing you agree to the use of cookies About web accessibility