Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Scholarship Office » Scholarship Toolkit Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search ScholarDollars Future Students Current Students USP Scholarship Renewal Requirements USP Scholarship Appeal Guidelines USP FAQ College and Departmental Scholarships Advice & Resources Other Types of Aid Faculty & Staff Contact Us Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply for Admission ScholarDollars Future Students Current Students USP Scholarship Renewal Requirements USP Scholarship Appeal Guidelines USP FAQ College and Departmental Scholarships Advice & Resources Other Types of Aid Faculty & Staff Contact Us You are here Home 2022-2023 Scholarships for New OSU Students New Student Support 2022-2023 Scholarships Residents Non-Residents FAQ 2021-2022 Cost Estimate Oregon State University recognizes student excellence, diversity, and achievement through an array of scholarship opportunities. En Español: Becas del año escolar 2022-2023 de OSU para estudiantes nuevos. For the 2022-2023 academic year, the majority of Oregon State University’s scholarships for newly-admitted freshmen and transfer students will be awarded automatically based on a holistic review of your application for admission. These admission-based scholarships are awarded only to students whose first term of enrollment at OSU will be Summer 2022 or Fall 2022. Through this review process, OSU seeks to identify and award students who have the skills, abilities, and drive to succeed at Oregon State based on the following: For Freshmen Students: Your high school grades Rigor of coursework, considered in the context of your school Class rank Grades in any college or dual-credit courses Information provided in your personal statement on the application Your response to one of our available essay prompts Test scores, if submitted (not required*) For Transfer Students: Your grades in college Rigor of college coursework Number of transferable credits completed Information provided in your personal statement on the application All new and continuing OSU students also are encouraged to submit an application for additional college and departmental scholarships that are awarded through OSU ScholarDollars, Oregon State University's online scholarship search and application system. OSU ScholarDollars will begin accepting applications for 2022-2023 scholarships on November 1, 2021. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Some Oregon State scholarships are only available to students who have demonstrated financial need. OSU determines whether you are eligible to be considered for these opportunities based on your FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or ORSAA (Oregon Student Aid Application). We recommend that you submit your FAFSA or ORSAA as early as possible every year to allow enough time for it to be processed before the earliest OSU ScholarDollars application deadlines. Take this quiz to decide which financial aid application is right for you! *Oregon State University is committed to making scholarship opportunities available to students who qualify, whether they apply with or without test scores. Test scores are not the sole or primary reason for a scholarship decision; they are considered as supplemental information within the context of your overall admission application. OSU Scholarship Programs for Residents New Resident Freshmen Finley Academic Excellence Scholarship Oregon State University’s Finley Academic Excellence Scholarship is awarded based on the application for admission to new resident freshmen students who will be attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses. Award recipients typically have an unweighted high school GPA of 3.50 or higher. Priority consideration is given to students who submit their application for admission on or before February 1st; students who apply after February 1st will be considered on a funds-available basis. Awards are renewable for up to three additional years (up to four years of funding total), and they have an annual value of up to $4,000 per year. Presidential Scholarship The Presidential Scholarship, OSU’s most prestigious and competitive scholarship, awards up to $40,000 ($10,000 per year, renewable for up to four years total) to new resident freshmen students attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses. To be eligible for consideration, students must be current Oregon high school seniors with a minimum 3.85 unweighted high school GPA and/or a minimum 4.20 weighted high school GPA. Students are evaluated based on a holistic review of their application for admission, with specific attention to their accomplishments, contributions, experiences, and talents; their achievements within the context of their social and personal circumstances, and their participation in activities that demonstrate their academic potential, leadership abilities, and commitment to service. No separate application is required to be considered for the Presidential Scholarship. All students who meet the minimum criteria and apply for admission on or before February 1st are automatically considered for the award. Recipients of the Presidential Scholarship are also offered additional perks to help amplify their first-year experience. More information on the additional Presidential perks is available here. Diversity Achievement Scholarship OSU’s Diversity Achievement Scholarship is awarded to new first-year students who are actively working to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Recipients are selected based on their current and past activities that promote and support diversity on their campuses and/or in their communities, as well as their potential to contribute toward building a more diverse campus community at OSU. Applicants whose parents have not completed a four-year college degree and applicants who have financial need will be given preferential consideration and are strongly encouraged to apply. Awards are $3,000 annually and renewable for up to two years total (up to $6,000 over two years). To be considered for this competitive award, students must submit an application and a personal statement through OSU’s online scholarship search and application system, OSU ScholarDollars, between November 1st and March 1st. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Middle College Program Award The Middle College Program Award is available to Oregon resident high school seniors who are first-year OSU applicants and are enrolled in one of the following eligible Middle College Programs: Clackamas Community College (with Clackamas Middle College) Mt. Hood Community College (with Centennial High School, Corbett High School, David Douglas High School, Parkrose High School, Reynolds Learning Academy, Reynolds High School, Rey Academy, Sandy High School, or Springwater Trail High School) Portland Community College (with Jefferson High School-Middle College for Advanced Studies) In addition, eligible students must demonstrate: Successful completion (grade of C- or better) of three or more college-level courses through the partner community college, which must include at least one math course and at least one writing course (students may complete math courses below 100-level as long as they pass the course), and Eligibility for the Oregon Opportunity Grant as determined by the OSU Office of Financial Aid and the State of Oregon based on the FAFSA or the ORSAA The award includes a gift aid package which covers the estimated cost of OSU’s basic in-state tuition and fees through a combination of federal, state, and institutional grant and scholarship funds plus a $600 annual book stipend. Awards are renewable for up to 3 additional years (up to four years of support total). MCP Award recipients also have access to academic and social support through OSU’s EOP, TRIO, and/or LSAMP programs. National Scholars Award OSU's National Scholars Award is a highly competitive, renewable scholarship offered to approximately ten incoming first-year students who received a national or global level recognition or award while in high school. Examples of such awards and recognitions may include, but are not limited to: National Merit Semifinalist or Finalist, National AP Scholar, Scholastic Art & Writing Award recipient, Toshiba/NSTA ExploraVision Award recipient, U.S. Presidential Scholar, and/or the National Security Language Initiative for Youth Program participant. Students may apply for the National Scholars Award through OSU ScholarDollars between November 1st and May 1st, and they will be asked to provide verification of the recognition or award as part of the application process. Recipients will be awarded a $2,000 scholarship that may be renewed for up to four years of support total. International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Scholarship Students participating in an International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma program may qualify for the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Scholarship. To qualify, entering freshmen must have scored a total of 30 or higher on the IB exam and complete the IB Diploma. Award offers will be finalized after exam scores are verified in July. Awards are $3,000 annually and renewable for up to 3 additional years (up to $12,000 over four years). Additional Scholarship Opportunities Students receiving these scholarships may submit an application through OSU ScholarDollars to be considered for additional scholarships from the university, alumni and/or donors, and the academic colleges/departments. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Students also may be eligible for need-based awards if they submit an application for financial aid (FAFSA/ORSAA). New Resident Transfers Finley Academic Excellence Scholarship Oregon State University’s Finley Academic Excellence Scholarship is awarded based on the application for admission to new resident transfer students who will be attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses. Award recipients typically have a cumulative transfer GPA of 3.75 or higher. Priority consideration is given to students who submit their application for admission on or before March 15th; students who apply after March 15th will be considered on a funds-available basis. Awards are renewable for up to three additional years (up to four years of funding total), and they have an annual value of up to $2,000 per year. Diversity Achievement Scholarship OSU’s $3,000 Diversity Achievement Scholarship is a one-year award for new transfer students who are actively working to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Recipients are selected based on their current and past activities that promote and support diversity on their campuses and/or in their communities, as well as their potential to contribute toward building a more diverse campus community at OSU. Applicants whose parents have not completed a four-year college degree and applicants who have financial need will be given preferential consideration and are strongly encouraged to apply. To be considered for this competitive award, students must submit an application and personal statement through OSU’s online scholarship search and application system, OSU ScholarDollars, between November 1st and June 15th. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Additional Scholarship Opportunities Students receiving these scholarships may submit an application through OSU ScholarDollars to be considered for additional scholarships from the university, alumni and/or donors, and the academic colleges/departments. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Students also may be eligible for need-based awards if they submit an application for financial aid (FAFSA/ORSAA). OSU Scholarship Programs for Non-Residents New Non-Resident Freshmen WUE Scholarship Oregon State University will consider eligible new students who will be attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses starting summer or fall of 2022 for the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Scholarship. Residents of the following states or territories will be considered automatically for a scholarship that reduces tuition costs to 150% of resident tuition: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam, the North Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia. WUE Scholarships are competitive and awarded based on a holistic review of the application for admission. Not all students from a WUE state or territory will be offered a WUE Scholarship. The discount associated with OSU’s WUE Scholarship only applies to OSU's on-campus, base non-resident undergraduate tuition. Ecampus tuition, differential tuition, campus fees, and room and board charges are not eligible for the discount, so students receiving OSU’s WUE Scholarship will be billed for the full cost of any Ecampus tuition, differential tuition, campus fees, and room and board. More information regarding the WUE Scholarship is available on our FAQ page. Provost Scholarship Oregon State University’s Provost Scholarship is awarded based on the application for admission to new non-resident freshmen students who will be attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses. Award recipients typically have an unweighted high school GPA of 3.00 or higher. Priority consideration is given to students who submit their application for admission on or before February 1st; students who apply after February 1st will be considered on a funds-available basis. Awards are renewable for up to three additional years (up to four years of funding total), and they have an annual value of up to $12,000 per year. Diversity Achievement Scholarship OSU’s Diversity Achievement Scholarship is awarded to new first-year students who are actively working to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Recipients are selected based on their current and past activities that promote and support diversity on their campuses and/or in their communities, as well as their potential to contribute toward building a more diverse campus community at OSU. Applicants whose parents have not completed a four-year college degree and applicants who have financial need will be given preferential consideration and are strongly encouraged to apply. Awards are $3,000 annually and renewable for up to two years total (up to $6,000 over two years). To be considered for this competitive award, students must submit an application and a personal statement through OSU’s online scholarship search and application system, OSU ScholarDollars, between November 1st and March 1st. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) National Scholars Award OSU's National Scholars Award is a highly competitive, renewable scholarship offered to approximately ten incoming first-year students who received a national or global level recognition or award while in high school. Examples of such awards and recognitions may include, but are not limited to: National Merit Semifinalist or Finalist, National AP Scholar, Scholastic Art & Writing Award recipient, Toshiba/NSTA ExploraVision Award recipient, U.S. Presidential Scholar, and/or the National Security Language Initiative for Youth Program participant. Students may apply for the National Scholars Award through OSU ScholarDollars between November 1st and May 1st, and they will be asked to provide verification of the recognition or award as part of the application process. Recipients will be awarded a $2,000 scholarship that may be renewed for up to four years of support total. International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Scholarship Students participating in an International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma program may qualify for the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Scholarship. To qualify, entering freshmen must have scored a total of 30 or higher on the IB exam and complete the IB Diploma. Award offers will be finalized after exam scores are verified in July. Awards are $3,000 annually and renewable for up to 3 additional years (up to $12,000 over four years). Additional Scholarship Opportunities Students receiving these scholarships may submit an application through OSU ScholarDollars to be considered for additional scholarships from the university, alumni and/or donors, and the academic colleges/departments. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Students also may be eligible for need-based awards if they submit an application for financial aid (FAFSA/ORSAA). New Non-Resident Transfers WUE Scholarship Oregon State University will consider eligible new students who will be attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses starting summer or fall of 2022 for the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Scholarship. Residents of the following states or territories will be considered automatically for a scholarship that reduces tuition costs to 150% of resident tuition: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam, the North Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia. WUE Scholarships are competitive and awarded based on a holistic review of the application for admission. Not all students from a WUE state or territory will be offered a WUE Scholarship. The discount associated with OSU’s WUE Scholarship only applies to OSU's on-campus, base non-resident undergraduate tuition. Ecampus tuition, differential tuition, campus fees, and room and board charges are not eligible for the discount, so students receiving OSU’s WUE Scholarship will be billed for the full cost of any Ecampus tuition, differential tuition, campus fees, and room and board. More information regarding the WUE Scholarship is available on our FAQ page. Provost Scholarship Oregon State University’s Provost Scholarship is awarded based on the application for admission to new non-resident transfer students who will be attending the Corvallis or Bend campuses. Award recipients typically have a cumulative transfer GPA of 3.00 or higher. Priority consideration is given to students who submit their application for admission prior to March 15th; students who apply after March 15th will be considered on a funds-available basis. Awards are renewable for up to three additional years (up to four years of funding total), and they have an annual value of up to $5,000 per year. Diversity Achievement Scholarship OSU’s $3,000 Diversity Achievement Scholarship is a one-year award for new transfer students who are actively working to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Recipients are selected based on their current and past activities that promote and support diversity on their campuses and/or in their communities, as well as their potential to contribute toward building a more diverse campus community at OSU. Applicants whose parents have not completed a four-year college degree and applicants who have financial need will be given preferential consideration and are strongly encouraged to apply. To be considered for this competitive award, students must submit an application and personal statement through OSU’s online scholarship search and application system, OSU ScholarDollars, between November 1st and June 15th. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Additional Scholarship Opportunities Students receiving these scholarships may submit an application through OSU ScholarDollars to be considered for additional scholarships from the university, alumni and/or donors, and the academic colleges/departments. (Students must have been admitted to OSU before accessing OSU ScholarDollars.) Students also may be eligible for need-based awards if they submit an application for financial aid (FAFSA/ORSAA). Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Resident Students When Will I be Notified about OSU Scholarship Awards? Typically, you will be notified of any scholarships you have been awarded based on your admission application within four to six weeks of being offered admission to OSU. If you are selected to receive a scholarship based on your admission application, the award offer will be posted on your Beaver Basecamp portal, you will receive an email notification, and a paper letter will be sent to the mailing address you provided on your application for admission. For scholarships that accept applications through OSU ScholarDollars, college and departmental scholarship committees will review applications and choose scholarship recipients starting in mid-February and continuing throughout the summer. If you are selected to receive a college or departmental scholarship, you will receive an email notification inviting you to log into ScholarDollars for information about the scholarship award. How Will I be Notified about OSU Scholarship Awards? If you are selected to receive an OSU scholarship based on your admission application, the award offer will be posted on your Beaver Basecamp portal, you will receive an email notification, and a paper letter will be sent to the mailing address you provided on your application for admission. If you are selected to receive a scholarship from an OSU college or department, you will receive an email notification inviting you to log into OSU ScholarDollars for information about the scholarship award. Am I Required to Have Financial Need to be Eligible for OSU Scholarships? Although some campus scholarships are available only to students who have financial need as determined by the OSU Office of Financial Aid, there are many that are awarded based on other eligibility criteria such as academic merit, participation in extracurricular and co-curricular activities, career plans, and geography. If you wish to be considered for the campus scholarships that require financial need, you should submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA) between October 1st and February 28th each year. Can I be enrolled in the Degree Partnership Program (DPP) and still keep my OSU scholarship? To be eligible to receive a payment of your USP scholarship in a given term as a Degree Partnership Program (DPP) participant, you must meet the following enrollment requirements as outlined in the terms and conditions of your award: Enroll in at least 6 credits at OSU, and Enroll in at least 12 credits total between OSU and your partner school, and Select OSU as your home institution for financial aid purposes If you do not meet all of these requirements in a given term, you may be eligible to retain your scholarship for future terms. More information on USP Scholarships and DPP enrollment can be found here. Some third-party scholarships and college/departmental scholarships may have different requirements regarding DPP enrollment. We recommend you check with your awarding organization or department to verify the requirements for your specific award(s). How Much Scholarship Money is Available through OSU ScholarDollars? For the 2021-2022 academic year, more than 3,000 new and continuing OSU students received a total of over $11 million in OSU scholarships through OSU ScholarDollars. Who Can Apply for Scholarships through OSU ScholarDollars? Both newly-admitted and continuing OSU students are eligible to use OSU ScholarDollars to apply for Oregon State’s scholarships. If you have applied for admission, but not yet received an admission decision, you can use the ScholarDollars search engine to learn about OSU scholarship opportunities, but you will not be able to log in or submit an application until you are admitted. How Do I Access OSU ScholarDollars? You do not need to set up a separate user account to access OSU ScholarDollars. Newly-admitted and continuing OSU students may log into ScholarDollars using their ONID user name and password. If you are a newly-admitted student, you will need to set up your ONID account before you can log into ScholarDollars. Information about activating your ONID account. If you have applied for admission, but not yet received an admission decision, you can use the ScholarDollars search engine to learn about scholarship opportunities offered by OSU and third-party organizations. Only admitted and continuing students are able to log into ScholarDollars and submit an application. When Should I Submit my OSU ScholarDollars Application? OSU ScholarDollars begins accepting applications on November 1st each year. We recommend that you submit your scholarship application no later than February 15th to maximize the scholarship opportunities for which you will be considered. Most scholarships have deadlines on or after February 15th, but specific deadlines may vary. Who Should I Contact if I Have Additional Scholarship Questions? If you have additional questions about OSU scholarships, please contact the OSU Scholarship Office at [email protected]. Non-Resident Students When Will I be Notified about OSU Scholarship Awards? Typically, you will be notified of any scholarships you have been awarded based on your admission application within four to six weeks of being offered admission to OSU. If you are selected to receive a scholarship based on your admission application, the award offer will be posted on your Beaver Basecamp portal, you will receive an email notification, and a paper letter will be sent to the mailing address you provided on your application for admission. For scholarships that accept applications through OSU ScholarDollars, college and departmental scholarship committees will review applications and choose scholarship recipients starting in mid-February and continuing throughout the summer. If you are selected to receive a college or departmental scholarship, you will receive an email notification inviting you to log into OSU ScholarDollars for information about the scholarship award. How Will I be Notified about OSU Scholarship Awards? If you are selected to receive a scholarship based on your admission application, the award offer will be posted on your Beaver Basecamp portal, you will receive an email notification, and a paper letter will be sent to the mailing address you provided on your application for admission. If you are selected to receive a scholarship from an OSU college or department, you will receive an email notification inviting you to log into OSU ScholarDollars for information about the scholarship award. Am I Required to Have Financial Need to be Eligible for OSU Scholarships? Although some campus scholarships are available only to students who have financial need as determined by the OSU Office of Financial Aid, there are many that are awarded based on other eligibility criteria such as academic merit, participation in extracurricular and co-curricular activities, career plans, and geography. If you wish to be considered for the campus scholarships that require financial need, you should submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) between October 1st and February 28th each year. Is Oregon State a WUE School? Oregon State University began awarding Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Scholarships to eligible new students starting fall of 2021. If you are a resident of one of the following states or territories, you will be considered automatically for a scholarship that reduces your tuition costs to 150% of resident tuition: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam, the North Mariana Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia. Will Every WUE-Eligible Student Receive OSU’s WUE Scholarship? OSU’s Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Scholarships are competitive and awarded based on a holistic review of your application for admission. Not all students from a WUE state or territory will be offered OSU’s WUE Scholarship. Can I be enrolled in the Degree Partnership Program (DPP) and still keep my OSU scholarship? To be eligible to receive a payment of your USP scholarship in a given term as a Degree Partnership Program (DPP) participant, you must meet the following enrollment requirements as outlined in the terms and conditions of your award: Enroll in at least 6 credits at OSU, and Enroll in at least 12 credits total between OSU and your partner school, and Select OSU as your home institution for financial aid purposes If you do not meet all of these requirements in a given term, you may be eligible to retain your scholarship for future terms. More information on USP Scholarships and DPP enrollment can be found here. Some third-party scholarships and college/departmental scholarships may have different requirements regarding DPP enrollment. We recommend you check with your awarding organization or department to verify the requirements for your specific award(s). How Much Scholarship Money is Available through OSU ScholarDollars? For the 2021-2022 academic year, more than 3,000 new and continuing OSU students received a total of over $11 million in OSU scholarships through OSU ScholarDollars. Who Can Apply for Scholarships through OSU ScholarDollars? Both newly-admitted and continuing OSU students are eligible to use OSU ScholarDollars to apply for Oregon State’s scholarships. If you have applied for admission, but not yet received an admission decision, you can use the ScholarDollars search engine to learn about OSU scholarship opportunities, but you will not be able to log in or submit an application until you are admitted. How Do I Access OSU ScholarDollars? You do not need to set up a separate user account to access OSU ScholarDollars. Newly-admitted and continuing OSU students may log into ScholarDollars using their ONID user name and password. If you are a newly-admitted student, you will need to set up your ONID account before you can log into ScholarDollars. Information about activating your ONID account. If you have applied for admission, but not yet received an admission decision, you can use the ScholarDollars search engine to learn about scholarship opportunities offered by OSU and third-party organizations. Only admitted and continuing students are able to log into ScholarDollars and submit an application. When Should I Submit my OSU ScholarDollars Application? OSU ScholarDollars begins accepting applications on November 1st each year. We recommend that you submit your scholarship application no later than February 15th to maximize the scholarship opportunities for which you will be considered. Most scholarships have deadlines on or after February 15th, but specific deadlines may vary. Who Should I Contact if I Have Additional Scholarship Questions? If you have additional questions about OSU scholarships, please contact the OSU Scholarship Office at [email protected]. Contact Info Scholarship Office 108B Kerr Admin Building Corvallis, OR 97330 541-737-1125 Contact Us Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer