Accessibility statement for Texas Tech University Scholars This website is run by Texas Tech University Scholars, powered by Elsevier B.V.. We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website. For example, that means you should be able to: navigate most of the website using just a keyboard navigate most of the website using speech recognition software listen to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver) We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand. AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability. How accessible is this site? We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible: ranks of headings are not fully following the WCAG 2.1 most older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software the contrasts on the page are not fully following the WCAG 2.1 Reporting accessibility problems with this website We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website. If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact Elsevier’s Support Team via pure-support@elsevier.com. Enforcement procedure In the United Kingdom, the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’). If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS). For complaints about institutions based in Northern Ireland, contact the Equalities Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI). For the rest of the world, please contact the relevant authority for your region. Technical information about this website’s accessibility This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below. Non accessible content The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons. Non compliance with the accessibility regulations We are aware of specific accessibility issues with the current version of the Portal interface. Full details of these known issues can be found in our Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) report. With the one exception detailed below, we plan to address all known issues detailed in this report by February 2021. Disproportionate burden Elsevier B.V. has no control over the accessibility of uploaded content linked to from pages, for instance datasets or pdf documents associated with research output. As such, we cannot be held liable for their adherence to accessibility criteria. Often, these documents are provided in the format required by the respective publisher. Providing an accessibility solution for these documents would, in our view represent a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the United Kingdom accessibility regulations. How we tested this website This website was last tested on 31 May 2019. The test was carried out by the Elsevier Digital Accessibility team. As Elsevier B.V. powers websites for multiple clients on our platform, we tested accessibility on a sample client, judged to be largely representative. The sample of pages we tested on is based on the most visited pages and those most essential to navigation of our website. For further details on what we tested, and the results, you can read the full accessibility test report Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) report.