HOME ABOUT Overview The Columbia Commitment Message from the President Strategic Planning Leadership PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society NEWS Science News Press Releases Video Gallery PARTNERS All Partners The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Columbia University Medical Center Columbia Zuckerman Institute The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Columbia | Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Columbia Nano Initiative JOIN US Commit Twitter Select Page Data and Society EXPLORE system Slide 2 Slide 6 Slide 7 Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Will “deep learning” put us on the road to driverless cars? Will “deep learning” put us on the road to driverless cars? c. Can drones help uncover the great secrets of our planet? Can drones help uncover the great secrets of our planet? Full 3 - copy - copy - copy - copy - copy Can drones help uncover the great secrets of our planet? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? READ MORE Will “deep learning” put us on the road to driverless cars? From the readings provided by medical instruments, to ecological sensors monitoring pollution, to digital signals sent from spacecraft circling distant planets, data is the foundation of all scientific exploration. The most basic units of information, data offer scientists a glimpse of truths that are otherwise invisible. In the Information Age, we are witnessing before our eyes a revolution in digital technologies and instruments creating unprecedented amounts of data and the immediate need for new methods to analyze it. Columbia scientists across an astounding array of disciplines are working together to develop innovative, new ways to organize, access, and make use of the vast information we are collectively gathering. Advances in data science cut across each of our six research themes: neuroscience, climate response, precision medicine, next generation nanoscience, and fundamental science. Success in each of these areas depends on our ability to effectively harness Big Data in creative new ways. Data Science Institute The Data Science Institute at Columbia is training the next generation of data scientists and developing innovative technology to serve society. With nearly 200 affiliated faculty working in a wide range of disciplines, including statistics, earth and environmental sciences, psychology, and physics within the Arts & Sciences, the Data Science Institute is fostering collaboration and advancing techniques to gather and interpret data, and to address the urgent problems facing society. Probability & Society Understanding and controlling randomness is a unifying goal that connects faculty across Columbia and is crucial to solving global challenges. It provides a framework for studying complex systems such as those in climate, politics, earth science, neuroscience, transportation, economics, and bioinformatics. Columbia is taking the innovative step to create a first-of-its-kind initiative that will bring together faculty, students, and the broader community to work on and understand probability and its application to improving research and society. JOIN US Data and Society News Jul 01 2020 Columbia Researchers Receive Facebook Award to Enhance Probabilistic Programming The scientists are affiliated with the Data Science Institute and will develop static analysis methods that will enhance the usability and accuracy of probabilistic programming. Read More Jun 26 2020 Columbia Engineers to Develop Power Grid Risk Dashboard The researchers received a $2.06M PERFORM grant from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy. Read More Jun 19 2020 Eric Talley Spearheads the Use of Machine Learning to Study Law Research by Talley found that rather than transcending political divides, constitutional arguments in the U.S. Congress tend to magnify the divides between Republicans and Democrats. Read More More Data and Society News Columbia University 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 555-1212 science-commits@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Close