HOME ABOUT Overview The Columbia Commitment Message from the President Strategic Planning Leadership PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society NEWS Science News Press Releases Video Gallery PARTNERS All Partners The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Columbia University Medical Center Columbia Zuckerman Institute The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Columbia | Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Columbia Nano Initiative JOIN US Commit Twitter Select Page Next Generation Nano EXPLORE Slide 3 Slide 2 Slide 1 Slide 4 Full 1 - copy - copy - copy How can we create materials that are stronger, lighter, and faster? Full 2 - copy - copy How do we spur a new revolution in computing and electronics? How can we create materials that are stronger, lighter, and faster? Full 3 - copy - copy What breakthroughs will transform how we generate energy? How can we create materials that are stronger, lighter, and faster? How do we spur a new revolution in computing and electronics? Full 3 - copy - copy - copy What breakthroughs will transform how we generate energy? How can we create materials that are stronger, lighter, and faster? How do we spur a new revolution in computing and electronics? READ MORE In recent decades, researchers working at scales as small as a single atom, the nanoscale, have revolutionized our understanding of how matter is structured. At this scale, classical physical laws overlap with quantum effects permitting assembly of structures and devices that have novel properties, applications, and behaviors. Columbia’s work in next generation nanotechnology and fabrication holds immense promise for both further discovery and practical applications. Led by the Columbia Nano Initiative, their discoveries, and the new tools and methods they develop, are leading to the creation of materials with extraordinary qualities – extremely strong, highly conducive to energy transfer, unique in their electrical properties – allowing for revolutionary advances in:  COMPUTING For the past few decades computers have become smaller and smaller, and faster and faster, through silicon-based solid state computing – a material which is now placing limits on further development. Newly fabricated materials built from the nano-level up hold the promise of replacing silicon, producing a transformation in computing that will far surpass the silicon revolution.  NEW MATERIALS Columbia is a leading center for graphene research. Our scientists are exploring this super-strong material’s potential for paper-thin smart phones as strong as steel, TV screens that roll up like paper, aircraft far lighter than any seen before, and remarkable bioactive structures.  ENERGY Whether pioneering new techniques for enhancing solar energy efficiency or developing a platform to harness the energy of evaporation – the biggest energy source in nature – Columbia researchers are using nanoscience to open new frontiers in clean, renewable energy. JOIN US Next Generation Nano News Jul 06 2020 2D Semiconductors Found to Be Close-To-Ideal Fractional Quantum Hall Platform The finding demonstrates the excellent intrinsic quality of 2D semiconductors and establish them as a unique test platform for future applications in quantum computing. Read More Feb 24 2020 Columbia Team Discovers New Way to Control the Phase of Light Using 2D Materials Researchers use atomically thin materials—1/100,000 the size of a human hair—to manipulate the phase of light without changing its amplitude, at extremely low power loss. Read More Feb 20 2020 Columbia Researchers Develop New Method to Isolate Atomic Sheets and Create New Materials The new exfoliation method makes large-area atomically thin layers that can be stacked in any desired order and orientation to generate a whole new class of artificial materials. Read More More Gext Generation Nano News Columbia University 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 555-1212 science-commits@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Close