Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors Zoology Major Zoology Major Explore the diversity, ecology and organismal biology of animals On this page Zoology Major Explore the diversity, ecology and organismal biology of animals What will you do as a zoology major? Do you love animals and aspire to engage with coursework, laboratory and field research relating to diverse animal species, habitats and ecosystems? Then zoology is the right major for you. The zoology major — the only one in the state of Oregon— is housed in the nationally ranked Department of Integrative Biology in the School of Life Sciences. As a zoology major, you will study a broad range of core courses providing a solid foundation in biological sciences as well as elective courses in the diversity, organismal biology, ecology and evolution of animals to match your specific interests in animal biology. Zoology students are actively engaged in laboratory and field research, working alongside faculty in a variety of projects, including amphibian declines in the Cascade Mountains, the disease ecology of African ungulates and discoveries of new beetle species in Oregon. The zoology program will prepare you well for jobs in a variety of fields, such as animal care and husbandry, curatorial and museum management, laboratory animal research, field biology and conservation, and environmental management and policy, as well as graduate programs related to the biology of animals. Explore zoology Zoology Curriculum Advising Future zoology majors Careers of our recent zoology graduates Veterinary Radiation Therapy Technician at Portland Veterinary Oncology Center Program Assistant at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Assistant Professor of Molecular and Cell Biology, UC-Berkeley Veterinarian at Pleasant Hill Animal Hospital Veterinary/Health Research Technician at OHSU Wildlife Biologist at Catalina Island Conservancy PhD Candidate and Interim Lab Manager at Nordic Sea Winery Zookeeper at Utah’s Hogle Zoo Operations Coordinator at Cascades Raptor Center Registered Nurse at Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center Laboratory Technician at Portland VA Research Foundation Sample courses Marine and Estuarine Invertebrate Zoology Monster Biology Vertebrate Biology Animal Behavior "In six days, we treated 767 dogs, cats, pigs, cattle, and horses. I was given the freedom to do the physical exams myself, listening to heart and lung sounds and palpitating lymph nodes.” Karianna Crowder ( Zoology '17) worked at a pet clinic in Nicaragua during one of several study abroad programs that she embarked on at OSU. Meet our students and alumni Zoology senior merges cultural identity and scientific curiosity A graduating senior in zoology at Oregon State University, Devonte Casey has been deeply inspired by the synergy between his academic pursuits and his identity as a Native American. Presidential scholar and zoology major focuses on what many ignore A Strawberry Princess who gets excited about roadkill. A valedictorian who doesn’t test well. A photographer who focuses on the unlovely. This is the stuff College of Science presidential scholars are made of. A passion for wildlife conservation: Zoologist takes care of a little bit of Africa Zoology graduate Molly Cordell ('16) trained and cared for African hooved animals for four years; now working toward career in wildlife conservation. Researching intertidal communities ecosystems: Ecology fellowship supports student fieldwork For Lily Miksell, the Alexei Lubchenco Menge Undergraduate Research Fellowship presented an exciting opportunity to pursue her interests in ecology and conservation. Meet a Science Grad: Kaelie Spencer Meet alumna Kaelie Spencer, 2016 Zoology major and aquarist at Birch Aquarium at Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Next steps Apply to the zoology major Current students: Make zoology your major Visit the Department of Integrative Biology Download Zoology Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback