Skip Navigation HOME UNDERGRADUATE Undergraduate Programs Faculty and Advisors The College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics California State University, Fullerton 800 N. State College Blvd. McCarthy Hall 166 Fullerton, CA 92834 (657) 278-2638 PHILOSOPHY AND MISSION The philosophy of the Science Education Programs at California State University, Fullerton is based upon the belief that teachers play a preeminent role in the science educational process. We prepare teachers to have confidence in their own abilities to access resources and gain the understanding that they need to help individual students become more scientifically literate. Furthermore, we also believe that effective science content preparation is critical in preparing teachers who are able to transform the science content knowledge that they learn in their courses into pedagogical content knowledge that can be taught to others. This process of transformation encompasses all aspects of instruction and evaluation nexus. The science education faculty agrees that teachers must be open and interested in new ideas. They engage in their own inquiry as co-investigators with students who learn science through multiple methods, including inquiry. We support teachers who as active, alert members of their school community, help the next generation become effective and positive contributors to a diverse society. The Science Subject Matter Preparation Program plays a vital role in preparing future teachers who are steeped in these philosophies and beliefs. The mission of the Science Education Program is to prepare students who are competent in subject matter content to teach science at the elementary and secondary levels. Furthermore, we provide guidance and support for both beginning and experienced teachers in the study and use of educational practices developed for the teaching of science, as well as helping these teachers develop original ideas as they relate to their areas of specialization. GRADUATE PROGRAMS Master of Arts in Teaching Science (MAT-S) The primary objectives of the Master of Arts in Teaching Science are to provide advanced course work in science curriculum designs appropriate to the professional responsibilities of science educators; to provide research and seminar opportunities in contemporary issues in science education; and to enable teachers to become more proficient in science disciplines appropriate to their academic teaching assignments. A secondary track and an elementary track are available. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS The Minor in Natural Sciences should be considered by all prospective elementary teachers. By completing the minor, the future teacher gains additional preparation in several science areas while learning about the most important concepts and problems in the sciences. The program includes 20 units of lower and upper division courses from the disciplines of chemistry and biochemistry, biological sciences, geological sciences, and physics. Many courses are designed especially for elementary teacher candidates. Science Coursework for Elementary Teachers is designed to deepen the skills and knowledge of future K-8 teachers in the areas of scientific content, scientific processes, and investigation and experimentation in the physical sciences (GEOL 410 Physical Science/Earth Systems and GEOL 420 Earth Science for Science Teachers) and the biological sciences (BIOL 453 Life Science Concepts). Introductory Subject Matter Authorization: Science is an additional authorization that may be added to an existing credential. It authorizes the credential holder to teach introductory courses in science, K-9th grades. It is not a separate credential, but is in addition to a pre-existing Single or Multiple Subject Credential. 32 semester or 48 quarter hours of non-remedial collegiate coursework in science is required, including a minimum of six semester or eight quarter hours in each of four content areas. For information about the Single Subject Credential in Science contact College of Education Credential Programs Secondary Education Single Subject Credential Programs Faculty and Advisors Advisor for Minor in Natural Science Megan Tommerup Science Education Faculty Joel Abraham, Biological Science Tara Barnhart, Secondary Education Natalie Bursztyn, Geological Sciences Todd Cadwallader-Olsker, Mathematics Bridget Druken, Mathematics Barbara Gonzalez, Chemistry and Biochemistry Maria Grant, Secondary Education William Hoese, Biological Science Cherie Ichinose, Mathematics Jeff Knott, Geological Sciences Michael Loverude, Physics Alison Marzocchi, Mathematics Megan Tommerup, Biological Science Natalie Tran, Secondary Education Sachel Villafane-Garcia, Chemistry and Biochemistry Contacts / Addresses Download Adobe Reader Fullerton, CA 92834 Science Education Programs, College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics California State University, Fullerton. Copyright 2017. All Rights Reserved