HOME ABOUT Overview The Columbia Commitment Message from the President Strategic Planning Leadership PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society NEWS Science News Press Releases Video Gallery PARTNERS All Partners The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Columbia University Medical Center Columbia Zuckerman Institute The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Columbia | Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Columbia Nano Initiative JOIN US Commit Twitter Select Page Fundamental Science News Columbia Chemistry Receives $21.5 Million Gift from Dr. Ge Li and Dr. Ning Zhao July 28, 2020 Today, Columbia University announced a $21.5 million gift from Dr. Ge Li ’94GSAS and Dr. Ning Zhao ’95GSAS to advance research and teaching in chemistry at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Columbia College, and the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. As one of the largest gifts to the sciences on the Morningside campus in University history, the couple’s donation will have a profound impact on the field of chemistry for generations to come. Their gift to the University will support the Department of Chemistry through two endowed professorships including funding for laboratory start-up, an endowed fellowship for graduate students, and an endowed scholarship for undergraduate students at Columbia College concentrating in chemistry. “We are deeply grateful to our graduates Dr. Ge Li and Dr. Ning Zhao, who know firsthand the importance of investing in fundamental scientific discovery,” said Lee C. Bollinger, President of Columbia University. “Their generosity will allow us to expand our efforts to address challenges in areas like cancer and climate, while supporting the gifted faculty and students who make that work possible.” Li and Zhao’s former Columbia Professor James Valentini, now Dean of the College, is deeply touched by the couple’s gift. “I have known Ge and Ning ever since they came to Columbia Chemistry as graduate students. They have always expressed to me a deep bond with Columbia and its great chemistry department. I am so pleased to have worked with them in developing this remarkable gift to Columbia,” said Valentini. “That gift will support our faculty, graduate students, and undergraduates, enabling the success of so many future Columbians.” “I am greatly honored that our scientific community will benefit from Dr. Li and Dr. Zhao’s philanthropic vision,” added Amy Hungerford, Executive Vice President of Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Columbia. “We are truly fortunate to have such dedicated graduates.” According to Dr. Li, “The exceptional education that Ning and I received as students at Columbia University has played an important role in our career and in fostering our passion for doing the right thing for patients.” He continued, “I am grateful for the opportunity to give back to my alma mater and share in its commitment to advancing breakthroughs in science, medicine, and health.” Li and Zhao both earned their doctorates in organic chemistry at Columbia. In 2000, Li founded WuXi AppTec, a provider of research, development, and manufacturing services that enable companies in the pharmaceutical and biotech industries worldwide, where Li is Chairman and CEO. Zhao is a member of the board, Senior Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources at WuXi AppTec, and President of the Ge Li & Ning Zhao Family Foundation. Li and Zhao credit much of their career momentum to Columbia. “As an alumna of Columbia’s Department of Chemistry, I am proud to support the students, faculty, and staff who are dedicated to excellence in chemical science and the pursuit of discoveries that will help address health challenges around the world,” said Dr. Zhao. “Additionally, Ge and I deeply appreciate Dean James Valentini’s advice and counsel as we seek to make a meaningful impact for the future through philanthropic efforts.” Columbia’s Department of Chemistry has made significant contributions to the discipline, particularly with the scholarship of distinguished professors such as Gilbert Stork, Ronald Breslow, Koji Nakanishi, and W. Clark Still, and Columbia is known as one of the premier institutions in academic chemical research. While Li and Zhao studied at Columbia, Nakanishi and Still advised them on their dissertations. The renowned chemists’ influence on Li and Zhao, as well as the field more broadly, made the Department an ideal home for the couple’s generosity, propelling Columbia science forward. “As graduates of Columbia in chemistry, Dr. Li and Dr. Zhao know firsthand the importance of nurturing the next generation of scientists here and pushing the frontiers of our department,” said Tomislav Rovis, chair of the Department of Chemistry. “We are deeply grateful for this unique commitment.” — Columbia News Dueling Cyclones Brew in the Atlantic and Pacific July 23, 2020 8 Surprising Facts About Marie Tharp, Mapmaker Extraordinaire July 29, 2020 About garen Search for: Priority Area News Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society Columbia Science in the News Africa’s Skies are Badly Polluted By The Economist July 31, 2020 Dueling Cyclones Brew in the Atlantic and Pacific By Gizmodo July 23, 2020 She’s an Authority on Earth’s Past. Now, Her Focus Is the Planet’s Future. By The New York Times July 10, 2020 In Parched Southwest, Warm Spring Renews Threat of ‘Megadrought’ By The New York Times July 8, 2020 Greenland Drilling Campaign Aims for Bedrock to Trace Ice Sheet’s Last Disappearance By Science July 2, 2020 Earth’s Final Frontier: The Global Race to Map the Entire Ocean Floor By The Guardian June 30, 2020 The Big Science Moments of 2020 (So Far) By Mashable June 23, 2020 Rising Seas Threaten an American Institution: The 30-Year Mortgage By The New York Times June 19, 2020 More Columbia Science in the News >> Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Close