Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Resources and response to COVID-19 Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science One degree in science. Endless possibilities. For those driven by a deep curiosity to understand how life and the universe work. For those who want to tackle the world's great challenges. For innovative thinkers and creative problem solvers. Start here. Go anywhere. Watch the video Find your major Schedule a tour Apply Request information! Request information! CLOSE May 31 The Dharma in DNA: Author & Panelist Event at Learning Innovation Center (LINC) Jun 1 Fall Priority Reg. Phase 1 Ends (Waitlist Not Available) Jun 1 Electrochemical Advancements of Solid State Ion Selective Electrodes at Linus Pauling Science Center Jun 1 Juniper E. Grimes - Integrative Biology MS Defense Seminar Our impact SCIENCE STORIES Prestigious Goldwater award will pave the way for developing life-saving vaccines Conserving coral reefs: Marine biologist receives coral society’s highest honor 5 Questions: Kameron Kadooka on advancing equity, access and inclusion in the College of Science Materials scientist wins National Science Foundation’s prestigious award for early-career faculty A sustainable future: How materials science can make the planet cleaner How undergraduate research drives student success at OSU Oregon State opens the world’s first-ever Genetic Code Expansion center Student clubs build communities of diverse scientists Kameron Kadooka is named interim director for Equity, Access and Inclusion Science is bold, curiosity-driven, world-changing, ground-breaking, diverse, progressive, global, immersive, sustainable, infinite, unwavering, better at Oregon State. Want more information? Inquire, and we'll connect you with the details you need. 9 Majors, 8 minors, countless options Prepare for medical school This is where you find the top resources to move you forward. 63% Admittance to medical school (5-year average) IMPACT Magazine Research stories, student profiles, breaking news and more Follow your curiosity From supernovae to superbugs, science faculty and students pursue both fundamental and applied research in over 100 labs across campus. Visit Meet with us to learn more about our majors, hands-on learning, and undergraduate research opportunities. Join us on social A love of space and an elective astronomy course compelled LA-native Christopher to become a Physics major. Watch him describe his student experience at our College: #Physics #UndergraduateResearch #OregonState #OSUscience @osuscience Haven't visited our campus in person, now is one of the best times to do it! Visitors looking to learn more about life as a College of Science student can head to this link and follow the simple steps below: @osuscience @osuscience @osuscience @osuscience Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback