Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Science and Society Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Events Our Programs News Funding and Resources Support Us Our Mission Our Impact Knowledge and Access Anti-Racism and Inclusion Plan People Administration Faculty Scholars and Researchers Affiliates and Associates Center for Science and Society Sponsored Events Climate and Society Series Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience NY History of Science Lecture Series Columbia University Events In-Person Events Online/Hybrid Events Event Archive Research Clusters Course Development Remote Learning Grants Public Outreach Seed Grants Other Programs and Initiatives CSS Funding Opportunities All Opportunities Funding and Fellowships Jobs Other Opportunities Opportunities Archive Resources Courses in Science and Society COVID-19 and Science and Society Resources Student Resources Our Videos Science and Society You are here: Home Upcoming Events The Story and Ethics of Dust: Linking the Past to the Present through Art and Science Events Past Event The Story and Ethics of Dust: Linking the Past to the Present through Art and Science Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 7, 2022 5:00 PM - 6:30 PM Fayerweather Hall (Room 513), Columbia University, 1180 Amsterdam Avenue, New York Event Description Dust is ubiquitous, with a billion tons of dust particles raining down on the Earth each year, and thus a phenomenon of enormous magnitude, and yet it rarely gets any recognition. This event will offer views of dust from an artist’s position and a scientist’s perspective. While seemingly unrelated, both angles are able to illustrate how dust is an important historical and environmental record and how it is so much more than the sum of its unrecognized particles. The artworks in Jorge Otero-Pailos’ “The Ethics of Dust” series isolate dust and make it tangible by transferring it from the surfaces of buildings to translucent casts. Jorge will present a selection of dust casts taken from buildings around the world, and discuss the unexpected histories that each of them unveils. He will connect the dots between these punctual histories to outline a larger concept they all contribute to, namely that of atmospheric heritage. Taken together, “The Ethics of Dust” challenges the conceptual duality of tangible/intangible heritage, the limits of governmentality, and the politics of belonging. Complementing this, Gisela Winckler will show how she reconstructs the story of dust over the earth’s history using the tools of science. Dust plays a critical role in the Earth's climate system, as It influences the earth’s radiation budget and is a key pathway for nutrients essential for plant growth on land and in the ocean. Dust links land, air and sea, and has done so for eons. Gisela will connect the dots and trace a path back through the Earth’ past, utilizing ocean sediments and ice cores as diaries of the Earth’s past and highlight dust as an illustration of the interconnected nature of the Earth system. Event Speakers Jorge Otero-Pailos, Professor of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University Gisela Winckler, Lamont Research Professor at Columbia University Event Information Free and open to the public; registration required. Columbia University ID holders may attend in person. Members of the public must attend virtually via Zoom. Please email [email protected] with any questions. Part of the Climate and Society series. Hosted by Center for Science and Society Columbia Climate School Dean of Humanities Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Climate and Society MA Program The Center for Science and Society makes every reasonable effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend a Center for Science and Society event, please contact us at [email protected] or (212) 853-1612 at least 10 days in advance of the event. For more information, please visit the campus accessibility webpage. Upcoming Events The Center for Science and Society511 Fayerweather Hall, 1180 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 853-1612 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close