College of Sciences About About the CollegeDean’s WelcomeDean’s Office StaffDean’s Advisory BoardAnnual ReportFast Facts 2020-2021Social Media Directory Academics ScholarshipsDegrees, Minors & CertificatesDepartments & SchoolsCenters, Institutes & Initiatives Advising Undergraduate AdvisingGraduate Advising For Faculty Newsroom NewsNewsletter & SignupEvents Giving & Alumni College of Sciences University of Central Florida Jump to page content Virtual and In-Person ADVISING Effective August 9, 2021, College of Sciences Advising Services will be moving back into CSB 250 and our hours and services will change. We will be extending our daily hours to start at 8:30 AM and our front office will be providing services to students both virtually and in-person. More information UCF’s Largest College The College of Sciences, UCF’s largest college, builds the foundations needed for critical thinking as well as career success in programs ranging from communication and journalism to the physical, biological, social, behavioral and computational sciences. You’ll learn inside and outside of the classroom and lab by participating in internships, research and field work on the Florida coast, Bolivia, Peru, Egypt and beyond. Academics Undergraduate Services Graduate Services Scholarships Schools Nicholson School of Communication and Media School of Politics, Security, and International Affairs Departments Anthropology Biology Chemistry Mathematics Physics Psychology Sociology Statistics & Data Science Centers, Institutes & Initiatives Arboretum Center for Global Economic and Environmental Opportunity The India Center Intelligence Community Center for Academic Excellence iSTEM Kurdish Political Studies Program Lou Frey Institute National Center for Forensic Science National Center for Integrated Coastal Research UCF RESTORES In the News Check out more stories COS News UCF’s Planetary Science Rock Stars Guests at MegaCon 2022 If you’re a space expert you know your science but explaining it in a way that excites the public is not always easy. Several of… Arboretum Controlled Arboretum Burns Lead to Discovery of new Grass Species A new grass species was discovered in the UCF Arboretum thanks to regular controlled burns that mimic nature’s wildfire season. Sporobolus osceolensis is a type… Awards Sociology Associate Professor Named National Geographic Explorer Explorers still exist, even in a world where every has corner has a name. Count Associate Professor Timothy Hawthorne, Ph.D., among their number. Hawthorne was… Featured Story Suicide Training for 911 Dispatchers Earns Psychology Professor Recognition From Sheriff A four-hour course designed to help 911 dispatchers talk with individuals threatening suicide recently earned a UCF faculty member recognition from the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office… Read More Stay up-to-date on everything going on at the College of Sciences with our new channel on the UCF Mobile app. Find Out How Stay Informed There is a lot going on in the College of Sciences! Enter your information below to subscribe to our newsletter and be the first to hear about our upcoming events. Name* First Name Last Name Email* CAPTCHA Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: UCF College of Sciences, 12716 Pegasus Drive, Orlando, FL, 32816. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the TrueRemove® link, found at the bottom of every email. Upcoming Events Up Next Jun 1 9:00 am IEP Help Sessions Your one-stop-shop for English language guidance and assistance. Have questions? Or just want to meet with a peer, advisor, or instructor about assignments? Held at UCF Global on the First Floor in Room 125, 9:00AM-10:00AM, Tuesday through Thursday. Looking Ahead Jun 2 9:00 am IEP Help Sessions Jun 6 9:00 am 2022 Computer Science Summer Institute Jun 7 9:00 am IEP Help Sessions Jun 8 9:00 am IEP Help Sessions Let’s Get Social sciences.ucf.edu/social Tweets by UCFSciences College of Sciences, UCF Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Anthropology Biology Chemistry Mathematics NSCM Physics School of Politics, Security, & Int. Affairs Psychology Sociology Statistics & Data Science © University of Central Florida