Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors Mathematics Major Mathematics Major Thinking about objects of complexity and beauty to solve the world's most critical problems On this page Mathematics Major Thinking about objects of complexity and beauty to solve the world's most critical problems What will you do as a mathematics major? The mathematics major encompasses both theory and applications of mathematics. You will have the opportunity to study in a broad spectrum of fields ranging from areas in pure mathematics such as algebra, real analysis, topology, probability and geometry to applied mathematical areas such as mathematical software, computational models and methods, mathematical biology, statistics and actuarial mathematics. Many mathematics majors also major or minor in engineering or the physical, biological or social sciences. You can complete the standard degree path or choose one of four different options in applied and computational mathematics, mathematical biology, statistics and secondary teaching emphasis to gain specialization in your area of interest and achieve your career objectives. Options in the mathematics major Applied and computational mathematics This degree option is designed for those interested in applied mathematics, modeling, and computation, preparing students for jobs in government or industry labs. Mathematical Biology Option In the Mathematical Biology option you will learn how to use mathematics to solve problems in the biological sciences. This specialization will equip you for jobs in the biotech and pharmaceutical industries as well as research institutes. Secondary Teaching Emphasis If you are interested in preparing for a career teaching mathematics at the secondary level, you can add this transcript-visible option. This option is ideal for those students wishing to pursue either the double degree or master’s degree teaching licensure programs here at OSU, or to prepare for a licensure program at another institution. Statistics Option This degree option is designed to allow you to focus on the study of the mathematical theory underlying statistics while simultaneously developing expertise in statistical applications. It will prepare you very well for careers in data analysis, banking, financial engineering or environmental sciences as well as for graduate study in statistics. What can you do with a mathematics degree: Careers of our recent graduates Senior Research Scientist at Adobe Research Analyst at Deloitte Tenured Math Professor, Clark College Graduate students at Stanford, Brown, Cornell, Columbia, New York University IT Consultant, Capital Group Scientist at Netherlands Institute for Space Research (SRON) Senior Software Engineers at NWEA; Nike; HP; Lithium Technologies Technical Writer at Amazon Web Services Kombuchologist at Lion Heart Kombucha Senior Android Developer at Metal Toad Field Service Engineer at Siemens Healthineers Instructor at Portland State University Explore mathematics The minor Graduate program Mathematics undergraduate advising Mathematics major requirements Applied and Computational Mathematics Option Mathematical Biology Option Secondary Teaching Emphasis Statistics Option Accelerated Master's Platform Sample courses Introduction to Numerical Analysis Complex Variables Probability Introduction to Differential Geometry Computational Number Theory “An undergraduate degree in mathematics is a foundation to work on other stuff. You can either go to graduate school or you find another field that relies on mathematics and you get to be the math person on the team. It is so useful in so many fields.” Johnathan Van Why (Mathematics ’16), Software Engineer at Google Meet our students and alumni Oregon native – and role model to young girls – carves her own path in mathematics Jennifer Smucker, mathematics senior, heads to Virginia Tech in the fall to pursue a Ph.D. in math. She hopes to be a role model for other women in STEM. Biochemistry, mathematics and molecular biology students win 2021 Goldwater awards for research excellence Two students from the College of Science have been awarded the competitive 2021 Goldwater awards. Mathematics and writing senior awarded Department of Energy fellowship Megan Tucker will graduate next month with a substantial amount of research experience under her belt: She was awarded the Mickey Leland Energy Fellowship, which gave her the opportunity to work on an interdisciplinary team at the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) in Albany, Oregon, during the summer of 2019. The new knowledge gained from her internship helped her land a job as a technical writer with Amazon Web Services — a subsidiary of Amazon that provides on-demand cloud computing platforms to individuals, companies and governments. Math alumna’s disease modeling at national lab aiding public health initiatives to combat COVID-19 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has placed mathematical models in the spotlight as they have become central to public health interventions, planning, resource allocation and forecasts. Math senior finds inspiration from women mathematicians at OSU Inspired by her mathematics professors, Sara Tro is headed to the University of Colorado, Boulder, to pursue a Ph.D. in applied mathematics. Next steps Apply to the Mathematics Major Current Students: Make mathematics your major Visit the Department of Mathematics Download Mathematics Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback