HOME ABOUT Overview The Columbia Commitment Message from the President Strategic Planning Leadership PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society NEWS Science News Press Releases Video Gallery PARTNERS All Partners The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Columbia University Medical Center Columbia Zuckerman Institute The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Columbia | Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Columbia Nano Initiative JOIN US Commit Twitter Select Page Press Releases Columbia Chemistry Receives $21.5 Million Gift from Dr. Ge Li and Dr. Ning Zhao 28 July Columbia Chemistry Receives $21.5 Million Gift from Dr. Ge Li and Dr. Ning Zhao Today, Columbia announced the $21.5 million gift, which will advance research and teaching in chemistry at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Columbia College, and the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. Read More Columbia Astrophysicist Brian Metzger Named 2020 Blavatnik Laureate 22 July Columbia Astrophysicist Brian Metzger Named 2020 Blavatnik Laureate Research on the origins of gold and other heavy metals garners the nation's largest unrestricted scientific prize for young scientists. Read More Groundbreaking Project Will Drill Into Bedrock Below Greenland Ice to Understand Past and Future Melting 16 July Groundbreaking Project Will Drill Into Bedrock Below Greenland Ice to Understand Past and Future Melting GreenDrill promises to reveal the ice sheet’s past in unprecedented detail and enable more accurate predictions of how it may add to rising seas in the 21st century. Read More Columbia to Establish a Climate School to Meet the Challenges of a Warming World 10 July Columbia to Establish a Climate School to Meet the Challenges of a Warming World The Columbia Climate School will provide the education, research, and global partnerships needed to create and maintain a sustainable society. Read More Tree Rings Show Unprecedented Rise in Extreme Weather in South America 07 July Tree Rings Show Unprecedented Rise in Extreme Weather in South America A new South American Drought Atlas reveals that unprecedented widespread, intense droughts and unusually wet periods have been on the rise since the mid-20th century. Read More Columbia Researchers Receive Facebook Award to Enhance Probabilistic Programming 01 July Columbia Researchers Receive Facebook Award to Enhance Probabilistic Programming The scientists are affiliated with the Data Science Institute and will develop static analysis methods that will enhance the usability and accuracy of probabilistic programming. Read More Columbia Engineers to Develop Power Grid Risk Dashboard 26 June Columbia Engineers to Develop Power Grid Risk Dashboard The researchers received a $2.06M PERFORM grant from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy. Read More 1 2 … 44 Next → Search for: Priority Area News Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society Columbia Science in the News Africa’s Skies are Badly Polluted By The Economist July 31, 2020 Dueling Cyclones Brew in the Atlantic and Pacific By Gizmodo July 23, 2020 She’s an Authority on Earth’s Past. Now, Her Focus Is the Planet’s Future. By The New York Times July 10, 2020 In Parched Southwest, Warm Spring Renews Threat of ‘Megadrought’ By The New York Times July 8, 2020 Greenland Drilling Campaign Aims for Bedrock to Trace Ice Sheet’s Last Disappearance By Science July 2, 2020 Earth’s Final Frontier: The Global Race to Map the Entire Ocean Floor By The Guardian June 30, 2020 The Big Science Moments of 2020 (So Far) By Mashable June 23, 2020 Rising Seas Threaten an American Institution: The 30-Year Mortgage By The New York Times June 19, 2020 More Columbia Science in the News >> Columbia University 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 555-1212 science-commits@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Close