Skip to main content College of Sciences Menu Close About Stats and Strengths Strategic Planning Faculty Excellence Leadership and Staff Meet the Dean Contact Information Academics Degree Programs Academic Departments Academic Policies and Procedures Student Opportunities Student Leadership Academic Advising Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Visit Request Information Research Get Involved Centers and Institutes Facilities Faculty Research Resources Diversity Student Support Faculty and Staff Support Programs and Events Diversity Leadership Contact Us Outreach The Science House State Climate Office Events Giving Give Now Ways to Give Giving Recognition Naming Opportunities Alumni and Friends Support the College About About Stats and Strengths Strategic Planning Faculty Excellence Leadership and Staff Meet the Dean Contact Information Academics Academics Degree Programs Academic Departments Academic Policies and Procedures Student Opportunities Student Leadership Academic Advising Admissions Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Visit Request Information Research Research Get Involved Centers and Institutes Facilities Faculty Research Resources Diversity Diversity Student Support Faculty and Staff Support Programs and Events Diversity Leadership Contact Us Outreach Outreach The Science House State Climate Office Events Giving Giving Give Now Ways to Give Giving Recognition Naming Opportunities Alumni and Friends Support the College Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Embracing and nurturing a diverse community is central to the college’s mission. Diverse perspectives deepen our understanding and help us innovate in powerful ways. Inclusive Excellence in the Sciences Moving Toward a More Inclusive College By combining strong existing diversity programs with bold new efforts, the college is working hard to create a welcoming environment for all. Learn more Everyone in our community actively contributes to diversity, equity and inclusion through their work in our education, research and outreach programs. We want to make this college the first choice for students, faculty and staff from all groups and backgrounds who want to study and work in a comfortable and inclusive environment. Through our programs and events, we’re also raising awareness throughout our college about diversity and the importance of supporting people of color. And by engaging in frank discussions about racism, sexism and homophobia, we’re building an environment in which employees, students and other stakeholders can bring their authentic selves. Diversity Leadership explore our efforts Student Support We are helping our students make NC State a more inclusive community. Faculty and Staff Support Access resources and contact information to support and protect diversity. Programs and Events Our diversity programs raise awareness throughout the college and beyond. Give to Our Diversity Programs Your financial support fosters a diverse and inclusive academic community. NC STate Diversity Events All Events Jun 03 Friday8:30 AM Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive Jun 20 Monday11:00 AM NC State Celebration of Juneteenth Training Roadmap NC State requires diversity training for all faculty, staff and students. Learn more about these important requirements.Visit the Roadmap Diversity at NC State University Diversity Resources Learn how the university works to make our campus a welcoming home for every member of the Wolfpack. Read more Safe at NC State NC State provides services and resources to support and guide individuals in obtaining the help they need. Read more Diversity Terminology Learn some general diversity terms commonly used in academia. Read more sciences Diversity news More News Alumna Andrea Duhon Is Making Marginalized Students Feel Seen and Heard by Giving Back Andrea Duhon ’05 is working to make sure underrepresented students feel seen in the classroom. Spring 2022 in Review: The Semester in Photos With finals underway and graduation approaching, we’re taking a look back at some of the college’s highlights from the spring semester. Pushing the Limits: Students Find Purpose, Belonging at NC State Diego Garza Guajardo and Ednah Sangaka grew up across the world from each other, but they both found a home at NC State. Now, they’re looking ahead to graduation and beyond. College of Sciences Home Campus Box 8201 304 Bureau of Mines Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2501 Campus Map Apply Give Scholarships and Financial Aid Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility News Visit Contact Staff Listing Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.