Skip to main content College of Sciences Menu Close About Stats and Strengths Strategic Planning Faculty Excellence Leadership and Staff Meet the Dean Contact Information Academics Degree Programs Academic Departments Academic Policies and Procedures Student Opportunities Student Leadership Academic Advising Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Visit Request Information Research Get Involved Centers and Institutes Facilities Faculty Research Resources Diversity Student Support Faculty and Staff Support Programs and Events Diversity Leadership Contact Us Outreach The Science House State Climate Office Events Giving Give Now Ways to Give Giving Recognition Naming Opportunities Alumni and Friends Support the College About About Stats and Strengths Strategic Planning Faculty Excellence Leadership and Staff Meet the Dean Contact Information Academics Academics Degree Programs Academic Departments Academic Policies and Procedures Student Opportunities Student Leadership Academic Advising Admissions Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Visit Request Information Research Research Get Involved Centers and Institutes Facilities Faculty Research Resources Diversity Diversity Student Support Faculty and Staff Support Programs and Events Diversity Leadership Contact Us Outreach Outreach The Science House State Climate Office Events Giving Giving Give Now Ways to Give Giving Recognition Naming Opportunities Alumni and Friends Support the College Graduating Is Just the Beginning Two Sciences students reflect on their NC State journey — and look ahead to the future. Delve into their stories Apply We want you on our team of scientists. Learn about applying to NC State. Explore Degree Programs We offer a variety of options for undergraduates and graduates. Discover Our Research We tackle the world’s toughest challenges in health, energy, security and the environment. Give Your support helps us Think and Do the Extraordinary. Faculty and staff in the College of Sciences have supported me every step of the way. Mariah Wilder Chemistry Class of 2021 Coronavirus Updates NC State continues to monitor and respond to the coronavirus outbreak. Get the latest News and features More News Diversifying the Sciences at NC State The Society for Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics & Native Americans in Science is lifting up underrepresented voices. Honoring Sciences Faculty, Staff The university recognized seven college faculty and staff members with teaching, diversity and excellence awards. Moving Toward a Common Vision The college’s new strategic plan and culture charter identify the shared vision, values and priorities that will move us forward. See Yourself at the College of Sciences Keep up with our scientists on social media. Follow us An immersive virtual tour of the university’s … Open On #MemorialDay we remember and honor all who gave… Open NC State alumnus Christopher Becker's degrees… Open Upcoming Events All Events Jun 15 Wednesday8:00 AM 3rd National PFAS Conference Jun 16 Thursday8:00 AM 3rd National PFAS Conference Jun 17 Friday8:00 AM 3rd National PFAS Conference Email Signup Email Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ Connect with us on social Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn College of Sciences Home Campus Box 8201 304 Bureau of Mines Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2501 Campus Map Apply Give Scholarships and Financial Aid Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility News Visit Contact Staff Listing Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.