Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU FAS Division of Science Suggestion Box Search Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Postdoc Resources Faculty Researchers Administrators DIB Events Departments & Units About Us We want your input! Please visit the FAS Science Suggestions Box. Welcome Welcome to the Faculty of Arts & Sciences, Science Division. Our divisional team provides support, oversight, and advocacy to help our units, research groups, and individuals thrive and advance excellence in teaching, learning, and research. I am delighted to support our 21 science departments and centers, comprising over 200 faculty. I am particularly interested in supporting Undergraduate Education in the Sciences, and to work in partnership with the Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences to enhance our new efforts in Quantitative Biology and Harvard’s Quantum Initiative. My role here is to cultivate a conversation among colleagues so we can continue to move forward in new and interesting directions. This will allow us to capitalize on our strengths, take advantage of the opportunities we have, and fully include faculty, staff, postdoctoral fellows, and students in important and transformative decisions. Join us in what is sure to be an exciting future in scientific exploration here at the FAS Division of Science! Christopher Stubbs Dean of Science, FAS Samuel C. Moncher Professor of Physics and of Astronomy Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 05 NSF Physics Frontiers Centers: Harvard Pre-Proposal Deadline (All day) 2022 Jun 06 Air Force FY2023 Young Investigator Research Program (YIP) Deadline (All day) 2022 Jun 13 NIH Director's Early Independence Award: Harvard Pre-Proposal Deadline 5:00pm 2022 Jun 24 American Diabetes Association Pathway to Stop Diabetes: Harvard Pre-Proposal Deadline (All day) 2022 Jun 29 Smith Family Awards for Excellence in Biomedical Research Deadline 12:00pm Latest News [NEW] Division of Science DIB Website September 1, 2021 The Science Division launches new Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging website https://dib.science.fas.harvard.edu Read more about [NEW] Division of Science DIB Website Diversity Funding Opportunities August 16, 2021 Here you will find a list of notable funding opportunities related to diversity, equity, and inclusion in research and higher education. If you have questions about any of these opportunities, we encourage you to contact the FAS Research Development team to discuss your funding needs. We are also happy to help... Read more about Diversity Funding Opportunities Harvard-Broad Genome Editing Technologies Fund August 2, 2021 On August 2, 2021, Dean of Science, Christopher Stubbs, announced the establishment of the Harvard-Broad Genome Editing Technologies Fund. This Fund will support research that... Read more about Harvard-Broad Genome Editing Technologies Fund Division of Science: Overview of Climate Survey Results February 17, 2021 On February 17, 2021, Dean of Science, Christopher Stubbs, distributed the Division of Science’s Overview of Climate Survey Results community-wide. Visit this... Read more about Division of Science: Overview of Climate Survey Results FAS Division of Science Lecture in Honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. February 5, 2021 The FAS Division of Science held its 2nd annual lecture in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. on Friday, February 5, 2021 via Zoom. Special guest speaker... Read more about FAS Division of Science Lecture in Honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. More FAS Division of Science Northwest Building, Suite 415 52 Oxford St Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-496-3780 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement