HOME ABOUT Overview The Columbia Commitment Message from the President Strategic Planning Leadership PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society NEWS Science News Press Releases Video Gallery PARTNERS All Partners The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Columbia University Medical Center Columbia Zuckerman Institute The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Columbia | Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Columbia Nano Initiative JOIN US Commit Twitter Select Page COLUMBIA SCIENCE COMMITS LEARN MORE Science lies at the heart of solving the great challenges facing the world today. Columbia’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences is partnering across the university and beyond to commit our world-class resources to urgent, global challenges in climate, health, and innovation. PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Button Text Neuroscience Button Text Climate Response Button Text Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Button Text Next Generation Nano Button Text Data and Society Button Text Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society A New Model: Science as Startup The scale and urgency of these global challenges requires a new model of engagement, one that accelerates discovery and innovation and leads to public and private sector solutions. We propose Science as Startup – a new way of fast-tracking the research needed to solve the complex challenges we face in health care, neuroscience, climate, energy, and developing needed new materials. Science as Startup takes cues from the entrepreneurial startup culture to spur knowledge creation and to build institutions that translates this knowledge to action. LEARN MORE Science News Jul 29 2020 8 Surprising Facts About Marie Tharp, Mapmaker Extraordinaire Maybe you already know that she created some of the first maps of the ocean floor and helped discover plate tectonics. Here are some lesser-known facts about this history-making cartographer. Read More Jul 28 2020 Columbia Chemistry Receives $21.5 Million Gift from Dr. Ge Li and Dr. Ning Zhao Today, Columbia announced the $21.5 million gift, which will advance research and teaching in chemistry at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Columbia College, and the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. Read More Jul 22 2020 Columbia Astrophysicist Brian Metzger Named 2020 Blavatnik Laureate Research on the origins of gold and other heavy metals garners the nation's largest unrestricted scientific prize for young scientists. Read More More Science News COMMIT Join Columbia in committing to solve the great challenges of the 21st century through the discovery and promise of world-class science. Join Us Columbia University 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 555-1212 science-commits@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Close