Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors Microbiology Major Microbiology Major Studying the smallest organisms to solve the world's biggest problems. On this page Microbiology Major Studying the smallest organisms to solve the world's biggest problems. What will you do as a microbiology major? Microbiology students at OSU study with and conduct research alongside faculty renowned for their pioneering work on virology and immunology to address daunting environmental, medical and molecular biological problems. As a microbiology major, you will gain a foundational understanding of infectious and beneficial organisms that play a role in human and environmental health. Through coursework and laboratory training, you will also learn about microbiology applications in the areas of environment, medicine, healthcare, agriculture and animal health. Through the microbiology major, you will engage in the study of bacteria, viruses and parasites to address environmental, medical and molecular biological problems. Originating with a single course in bacteriology in 1899, today the Department of Microbiology is internationally renowned for pathbreaking research in the areas of the microbiology of aquatic environments, the microbiome and food and environmental microbiology. You will have extensive opportunities to engage in undergraduate research, international study programs, internships, and conduct field studies that span environmental sciences, human and animal health, ocean ecosystems and medicine. Through a wide range of core and elective courses, you will engage in both theoretical and experimental learning from outstanding teachers and researchers. The microbiology major has a built-in chemistry minor to provide students with a broad background in the physical sciences and enhance their skills as scientists. Careers in microbiology A B.S. degree in microbiology will provide you excellent job opportunities: three months after graduation, 95% of our recent graduates have been employed in a microbiology-related field or accepted to a program for further education (graduate school or medical, dental and pharmacy school). A microbiology degree will prepare you for jobs in national labs, environmental and natural resource agencies, research institutes, food and pharmaceutical industries and the non-profit sector. Microbiology Options Pre-Medicine The pre-medicine option in microbiology will help prepare a student for taking the standardized test required for medical school application (MCAT), as well as provide an additional perspective in the humanities that is valued by medical programs. Aquatic Microbiology The aquatic microbiology option is for students with an interest in the microbiology of water habitats. Students will gain foundational knowledge of stream, estuarine and marine ecosystems and their microbial processes by taking core oceanography and aquatic systems courses. What can you do with a microbiology degree: Careers of our recent graduates Research Microbiologist for the Food and Drug Administration Laboratory Analytical Specialist at the Portland Water Bureau Medical students at Cornell, Ohio State University, Royal College of Surgeons Graduate students at New York University, OHSU, Max Planck Institute, Germany Infectious Disease Medical Specialist at Samaritan Regional Medical Center Resident Physician at OHSU, Mayo Clinic Principal Scientist at SmartPhage Inc Software Engineer at Thermo Fisher Scientific Content Specialist at Study.com, LLC Senior Quality Control Scientist at WR Grace and Co. Explore microbiology The minor Graduate program Microbiology undergraduate curriculum Aquatic microbiology option Pre-Medicine Microbiology advising Sample courses The Human Microbiome Bacterial physiology and metabolism Immunology Virology “I want to thank my microbiology professors for sparking my interest in this field and for teaching such mentally stimulating but also extremely fun classes/labs with very up-to-date science!” Chloe Villagomez (Microbiology, B.S. '17), research scientist at Juno Therapeutics, a biotech company in Seattle, Washington. Meet our students and alumni Pivoting a career to become a physician and give back along the way Kendra Krebs's interest in science started when she worked as a hair stylist in a salon. Now, this microbiology senior has her sights set on medical school. Oregon State University scientists shed new light on viruses' role in coral bleaching Scientists at Oregon State University have shown that viral infection is involved in coral bleaching – the breakdown of the symbiotic relationship between corals and the algae they rely on for energy. Microbiology alumna and surgeon's journey from refugee camps to healthcare leadership In her role as a Health Innovators Fellow at the Aspen Institute, Kuy developed a Covid-19 Preparation Tool to help healthcare facilities, businesses and communities rapidly gauge their preparedness for the outbreak, identify areas of weakness and strategically target resources for their greatest impact. Oregon's top pre-med program meets the growing demand for doctors The COVID-19 pandemic is creating a surging interest in science and medicine, attracting a new generation of students to a career in medicine. Enrollment in the College of Science’s pre-med program at Oregon State University has also remained high, with numbers averaging 90-100 pre-med students annually since 2019. Next steps Apply to the microbiology major Add or change your major to microbiology Download Microbiology Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback