Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors BioHealth Sciences Major BioHealth Sciences Major Positively impacting local, regional and global health On this page BioHealth Sciences Major Positively impacting local, regional and global health What will you do as a BioHealth Sciences major? At OSU, you will discover one of the nation’s best biohealth sciences programs that combines a strong foundation in biological science with its application to human health and society. As a BioHealth Sciences (BHS) major, you'll pursue an interdisciplinary course of study that studies the interrelationships among foundational biological and physical sciences and a variety of health and social sciences courses designed to meet the needs of students interested in healthcare careers. Through dynamic and interactive science and laboratory courses, you will deepen your understanding about human health, the origins of disease and the research for future cures. Undergraduate research opportunities, internships, volunteer activities and clinical experiences will prepare you to excel in professional programs and health care jobs. Jobs in healthcare Located in the Department of Microbiology, the BHS major offers you a total of seven academic options to supplement and broaden your studies in the field: Pre-Clinical Lab, Pre-Dental, Pre-Physical Therapy, Pre-Med/Pre-Podiatry, Pre-Optometry, Pre-Pharmacy, Pre-Physician Assistant. You will have the opportunity to interact with medical and industry professionals to gain hands-on experience and skills and to explore potential career paths through job shadowing. Our students find rewarding jobs in the fields of medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, optometry, podiatry, physician assistantship, physical therapy and clinical laboratory science. The comprehensive BHS curriculum provides unique pathways to enter competitive careers and graduate programs. For example, the BHS major with the Pre-Pharmacy Option is designed to meet requirements for admission to a Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) professional program jointly offered by OSU and OHSU (Oregon Health and Science University) as well as other pharmacy schools across the United States. BioHealth Sciences Options Pre-Clinical Lab Clinical laboratory scientists (also known as medical laboratory scientists or medical technologists) perform routine and highly specialized diagnostic procedures in clinical laboratories. The biohealth sciences major combined with the Pre-Clinical Laboratory Science option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to CLS programs across the United States. Satisfactory completion of the pre-CLS option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to a CLS program; applicants are selected on a competitive basis. Pre-Dentistry The biohealth sciences major combined with the pre-dentistry option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to dentistry schools across the U.S. Satisfactory completion of the pre-dentistry option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to dental school; applicants are selected on a competitive basis. Students pursuing this option will study advanced anatomy courses and select among microbiology, biochemistry and nutrition courses based on their interests. Pre-Medicine/Pre-Podiatry There are two traditional paths to becoming a doctor: allopathic medicine, which leads to Doctor of Medicine (MD), or osteopathic medicine, which leads to a Doctor of Osteopathy (DO). Both provide the education and training necessary to practice medicine. A podiatrist is a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM), trained specifically to diagnose and treat conditions of the foot, ankle, and related structures of the leg. The biohealth Sciences major combined with the pre-medicine/pre-podiatry option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to allopathic, osteopathic, or podiatric medical schools across the U.S. Satisfactory completion of the Pre-Medicine/Pre-Podiatry option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to any medical school. The option includes advanced courses in microbiology, zoology and the humanities. Pre-Optometry Optometry is a health care profession that focuses on vision care and the diagnosis, examination and treatment of eyes. The biohealth sciences major combined with the pre-optometry option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to optometry programs across the U.S. Satisfactory completion of the pre-optometry option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to an optometry program; applicants are selected on a competitive basis. The option includes advanced courses in biology and elective courses in physics and biochemistry and biophysics. Pre-Pharmacy The pre-pharmacy option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to pharmacy schools across the U.S., including OSU’s Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) professional program. Satisfactory completion of the pre-pharmacy option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to pharmacy school; applicants are selected on a competitive basis. The option includes advanced courses in biology and core courses in economics focused on market structure and consumer behavior. Pre-Physical Therapy The biohealth sciences major combined with the pre-physical therapy option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to PT programs across the U.S. Satisfactory completion of the pre-PT option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to a PT program; applicants are selected on a competitive basis. The option includes advanced courses in biology, kinesiology and psychology. Pre-Physician Assistant Physician assistants work in collaboration with doctors and are licensed to diagnose illness, develop and manage treatment plans and prescribe medications. The biohealth sciences major combined with the pre-physician assistant option is designed to meet most or all of the requirements for admission to PA programs across the U.S. Satisfactory completion of the pre-PA option facilitates, but does not guarantee, admission to a PA program. This option includes advanced courses in biology, public health and psychology. Explore BioHealth Sciences BioHealth Sciences Advising BioHealth Sciences Curriculum BioHealth Sciences options checklist Sample courses Human Microbiome Human Virology Immunology Mechanisms of Disease Biomedical Ethics What can you do with a BioHealth Sciences degree: Careers of our recent graduates Neurosurgery Physician Assistant, Providence Senior Biologist, Eli Lilly and Company   Physical Therapist, ProMotion AFR Optometrist, Mile High Eye Institute Registered Nurse, Providence St. Vincent Health Center Clinical Research Associate, Formosa Biomedical Technology Corporation Formulation Technical Team Lead, BioFire Diagnostics Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Intern, John Peter Smith Hospital Dental Student, OHSU School of Dentistry Pharmacist, Pacific University School of Pharmacy/Virginia Garcia Memorial Health Center "You learn so much in the BioHealth Sciences program that is hands-on besides things that you would learn in a textbook. I have worked with plasmids, origin of replication, glycolysis and I was able to apply my knowledge of everything I learned in the classroom." Van Ahn Vu (BioHealth Sciences '16), Clinical Pharmacy Specialist, Portland, Ore. Meet our students and alumni Biohealth sciences, pre-pharmacy alumna graduated early to care for patients during the pandemic As a 12th-grader, Van Anh Vu was accepted into the College of Pharmacy as part of the college’s Early Assurance Program and completed her bachelor’s degree in biohealth sciences and international studies at Oregon State University. First-gen biohealth grad achieves 'next step' toward career as a dentist Gabriela Cortes Cortes is proud not to have let any obstacle, including a pandemic or the challenges of a first-generation student, hold her back from earning a four-year degree in the College of Science. BioHealth senior’s race to the medical school finish line Jacob Maynes, a senior majoring in biohealth sciences, will start medical school at Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine (LECOM) in Erie, Pennsylvania, this July after only three years of college. Meet a Science Grad: Steven Kurtz Meet Steven Kurtz, BioHealth Sciences alumnus who is studying to become a physician assistant and extreme sports enthusiast. Focusing on research full-time helps BioHealth Science student get to the ‘why’ behind the ‘what’ BioHealth Sciences junior Haelyn Epp used her SURE Science scholarship to do full-time research on motor proteins. Biohealth student snags prestigious bioethics internship at Mayo Clinic Biohealth Sciences major Sydney Phu selected for a prestigious bioethics summer internship at the Mayo Clinic. Next steps Apply to the BioHealth Sciences Major Current students: Make BioHealth Sciences your major Visit the Department of Microbiology Learning online You may also pursue the BHS major online, learning from the same faculty in Oregon State’s Department of Microbiology who teach on campus. In the online program, which does not include academic options, you can tailor your degree plan through science electives or add a minor, such as a minor in public health, psychology or Spanish to strengthen your résumé. Online students receive the same OSU diploma and transcripts as OSU's on-campus students. Download BioHealth Sciences Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback