Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major Revealing how life works On this page Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major Revealing how life works What will you do as a biochemistry and molecular biology major? As a biochemistry and molecular biology major, you will be a part of the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, which ranks high nationally and internationally in several areas of research, such as protein engineering, structural biology and genetic code expansion technology. You will find yourself learning in an innovative, multidisciplinary curriculum that provides thorough training in biochemistry, molecular and cellular biology, chemistry, molecular genetics, physics and statistics. You will study molecular and cellular processes connected with aging, disease and oncogenesis as well as learn how the concepts of molecular biology inform research approaches. You will also acquire training in fundamental and state-of-the-art molecular biological experimental strategies, bioinformatics and computer-based analysis of protein structures. You can choose from three options, offering you the flexibility to design your education to match your career goals: Advanced Molecular Biology, Computational Molecular Biology and Pre-Medicine. Alongside a faculty mentor, you will have the opportunity to work on cutting-edge laboratory research projects in medical science, cell biology, genomics, biotechnology, drug development, toxicology and other fields. Thanks to rigorous research experiences, biochemistry and molecular biology majors are well prepared for medical and dental schools, graduate schools, pharmacy schools and are extremely well-qualified for jobs in biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors. Options in the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major Advanced Molecular Biology The Advanced Molecular Biology option is designed for students interested in pursuing graduate work in molecular life sciences or entering the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. It provides advanced training in genomics, epigenetics and other areas of current research in molecular biology, in addition to the core courses in the major. Students have numerous opportunities for undergraduate research and can earn research credits, which can be applied to the upper-division science elective requirements. Computational Molecular Biology The Computational Molecular Biology option is designed for students interested in the interface of molecular biology, computer science, and statistics. It provides strong preparation for graduate school in computational biology as well as the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. This option couples the comprehensive core training in biochemistry and molecular biology with advanced course work in mathematics, statistics, computer science, and bioinformatics. Students participating in undergraduate research can earn research credits, which can be applied to the upper-division science elective requirements. Pre-Medicine Biochemistry and Molecular Biology students interested in a career in medicine can select this option. In addition to offering a rigorous foundation in biochemistry, molecular and cellular biology, chemistry, and genetics, the Pre-medicine option meets the requirements for most medical schools in the U.S. by providing students with training in psychology, ethics and social sciences. Students have a wide choice of medically relevant electives in areas such as physiology, microbiology, and immunology. Students have numerous opportunities to participate in undergraduate research. Explore biochemistry and molecular biology The minor Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Curriculum Undergraduate research opportunities Advising What can you do with a biochemistry and molecular biology degree: Careers of our recent graduates Resident Doctor, Johns Hopkins Vascular Surgery Fellow, Mayo Clinic Medical students at Harvard, Oregon Health & Science University and Baylor University Graduate students at Stanford, UC Davis and New York University Professor of Neurology at the Mayo Clinic Research scientists at biotech companies Emergency Physician and Hospitalist, Hawaii Emergency Physician Association Dentist, Gentle Dental Forensic Pathology Fellow, Office of the Medical Investigator Curriculum Fellow and Lecturer, Harvard Gastroenterologist, Cleveland Clinic Associate Veterinarian, Banfield Pet Hospital Research Scientist, Oregon Health and Science University Sample courses Metabolism Macromolecular Structure Advanced Molecular Genetics Introduction to Neuroscience “The best thing about being a science student at OSU is that I came here wanting to learn and try everything, and I got opportunities to do just that." Tricia Chau (Biochemistry and Molecular Biology '18), studying medicine at Oregon Health and Science University. Meet our students and alumni Fulbright awards will take science students to Germany and New Zealand Oregon State University and the College of Science are thrilled to congratulate biochemistry and molecular biology Honors student Maja Engler and biology alumna Emily Newton on receiving the 2021-2022 Fulbright Award. ‘Fearless’ biochemistry and molecular biology senior works at the cutting edge of cell evolution Ilana Gottfried-Lee has spent the past two years performing cutting-edge research in the Unnatural Protein Facility - diving headfirst into a project that has never been attempted before. Biochemistry, mathematics and molecular biology students win 2021 Goldwater awards for research excellence Two students from the College of Science have been awarded the competitive 2021 Goldwater awards. Finding clarity and calm during a global pandemic Joaquin Rodriguez, a biochemistry and biophysics senior doing research on viruses, explains why the coronavirus has a high rate of transmission. Oregon's top pre-med program meets the growing demand for doctors The COVID-19 pandemic is creating a surging interest in science and medicine, attracting a new generation of students to a career in medicine. Enrollment in the College of Science’s pre-med program at Oregon State University has also remained high, with numbers averaging 90-100 pre-med students annually since 2019. Next steps Apply to the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major Current Students: Make Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Your Major Visit the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics Download Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback