Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors Biochemistry and Biophysics Major Biochemistry and Biophysics Major Revealing how life works On this page Biochemistry and Biophysics Major Revealing how life works Biochemistry and biophysics majors study a broad range of courses centered on the chemistry and physics of life processes. What will you do as a biochemistry and biophysics major? As a biochemistry and biophysics major, you’ll get to study in a nationally and internationally recognized program that has a world-class faculty, a tradition of interdisciplinary research, outstanding teachers and extraordinary laboratories to facilitate undergraduate learning. You will study a broad range of courses centered on the chemistry and physics of life processes with training that integrates the principles of chemistry, physics, mathematics, biochemistry, genetics and computer science. As a biochemistry and biophysics major, you will receive excellent training for careers in medicine, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, in addition to exceptional preparation for graduate school in all fields of the biological sciences, from immunology to neuroscience and genetics. You will have opportunities to conduct laboratory research in medical science, agriculture, nutrition, clinical chemistry, food science, toxicology, environmental science, biotechnology and drug development with faculty experts across Oregon State. Biochemistry and biophysics majors have been very successful at gaining admission to medical, dental, and graduate schools. In 2017 and 2018, biochemistry and biophysics students won the highly competitive Goldwater scholarship—the top undergraduate award in the nation for sophomores and juniors in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Options in biochemistry and biophysics Advanced Biophysics The Advanced Biophysics Option is designed for students interested in pursuing graduate work in biophysics or entering the workforce in biophysics and pharmaceutical industries. It provides advanced training in physical chemistry and physics, bioinformatics, statistics, mathematics, and other areas of current research in biophysics, in addition to the core courses in the major. Students are strongly encouraged to participate in undergraduate research, and up to three research credits can be applied to the upper-division science elective requirements. Faculty advisors work with students to help them identify electives, research opportunities, and professional internships that align with their interests. Neuroscience The neuroscience option is designed for students interested in combining foundational training in chemistry, biology, mathematics, physics, biochemistry, and biophysics with training in psychology, neuroscience, and anatomy and physiology to deepen their understanding of the brain and the nervous system. This option supports students who want to pursue graduate work in neuroscience, biophysics, bioinformatics, and pharmaceutical research as well as work in health professions. Students can engage with exciting research projects that match their interests. Pre-medicine This option is suitable for biochemistry and biophysics students interested in a career in medicine. In addition to offering a strong foundation in general chemistry, organic chemistry, mathematics, physics, biology, biochemistry, cell and molecular biology, biophysics, statistics, and biological sequence analysis, the pre-medicine option meets the requirements for most medical schools in the U.S. by providing students with training in genetics, psychology, ethics, and social sciences. Students have a wide choice of medically relevant electives in areas such as anatomy and physiology, microbiology, neuroscience, and immunology. They can also participate in meaningful undergraduate research projects. Faculty pre-medical advisors guide students to integrate undergraduate research and other relevant professional opportunities into their undergraduate experience and to prepare themselves as strong candidates for admission to the medical schools and health programs of their interest. Explore biochemistry and biophysics Graduate program Contact us Biochemistry and biophysics curriculum Biochemistry and biophysics advising What can you do with a biochemistry and biophysics degree: Careers of our recent graduates Professor of Neurology at the Mayo Clinic Research scientists at biotech companies Medical students at Harvard, Oregon Health & Science University and Baylor University Graduate students at Johns Hopkins, Stanford and New York University Emergency Physician and Hospitalist, Hawaii Emergency Physician Association Vascular Surgery Fellow, Mayo Clinic Dentist, Gentle Dental Forensic Pathology Fellow, Office of the Medical Investigator Curriculum Fellow and Lecturer, Harvard Gastroenterologist, Cleveland Clinic Associate Veterinarian, Banfield Pet Hospital Resident Doctor and Spinal Cord Surgery Specialist, Johns Hopkins Research Scientist, Oregon Health and Science University Sample courses Macromolecular Structure Genetic Biochemistry Molecular Medicine Introduction to Biological Sequence Analysis "The biochemistry and biophysics professors are great. I couldn't have asked for a better education. All the professors know you by name and they are very passionate about what they teach." Delaney Smith (Biochemistry & Biophysics '19), 2018 Goldwater Scholar, 2019 Fulbright Fellow at the University of Ghent, Belgium. Meet our students and alumni Research opportunities led Eugene native to Oregon State Biochemistry and biophysics senior Seth Pinckney chose Oregon State for the research opportunities. He wasn't disappointed. Fulbright Award will take biochemistry senior to Spain to study neuroscience Isabella Karabinas, a senior double majoring in honors biochemistry & biophysics, has received the 2020 Fulbright Award to study in Spain. Deep dive into key COVID-19 protein is a step toward new drugs, vaccines Biochemists have taken a key step toward new drugs and vaccines for combating COVID-19 with a deep dive into one protein’s interactions with SARS-CoV-2 genetic material. Meet a Science Grad: Katherine Ganio Meet Katherine Ganio, 2009 biochemistry & biophysics alumna and research fellow at the University of Melbourne. OSU alum awarded for studies in children's health Andres Cardenas (10', '15) has received funding to spend the next five years studying the impacts of prenatal and early childhood environmental stressors on children’s health and development. Next steps Apply to the Biochemistry and Biophysics Major Current Students: Make Biochemistry and Biophysics your Major Visit the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics Download Biochemistry and Biophysics Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback