HOME ABOUT Overview The Columbia Commitment Message from the President Strategic Planning Leadership PRIORITIES Fundamental Science Neuroscience Climate Response Precision Medicine Next Generation Nano Data and Society NEWS Science News Press Releases Video Gallery PARTNERS All Partners The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Columbia University Medical Center Columbia Zuckerman Institute The Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Columbia | Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Columbia Nano Initiative JOIN US Commit Twitter Select Page Fundamental Science EXPLORE Slide 1 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 7 Full 1 - copy - copy How did the universe begin? Full 2 - copy What is space and time? How did the universe begin? Full 3 - copy From the most basic proteins to the most complex systems, what is life and how does it work? How did the universe begin? What is space and time? Full 3 - copy - copy From the most basic proteins to the most complex systems, what is life and how does it work? How did the universe begin? What is space and time? READ MORE Science is fundamentally about discovery. Harnessing tools and methods to understand what had previously been mysteries, scientists are detectives seeking to understand the world around us and add to humankind’s collective knowledge. Basic science is the starting point, the foundation of the research enterprise and the core component of Columbia’s strength in the natural sciences. The discoveries made by basic scientists may lead to surprising and previously unknown practical advances – in medicine, technology, industry – and examples of basic science fueling the pipeline of innovation abound. But the goal of fundamental science is first and foremost to advance human knowledge and lead to greater understanding of the universe around us. ORIGINS Columbia’s Origins Initiative seeks to bring our unique talents from diverse fields ranging from Physics to Psychology, paired with expertise in philosophy, law, and religion, to understand the universe and our place within it. Centered on three fundamental Origins themes – Origins of the Universe, Origins of Life, and Origins of Consciousness – we are positioned to study and address some of the most fundamental questions humans have asked about ourselves and our place within the cosmos. GRAVITATIONAL WAVES Physicists have just found a way to observe gravitational waves, disturbances in the fabric of space-time. Caused by violent events such as black holes colliding, supernovae exploding, and even potentially someday the Big Bang itself, these waves offer us a new way of observing these powerful cosmic events. This new way of seeing the universe may also lead to insight into its fundamental laws, revealing things that we have yet to imagine. REIMAGINING ASTRONOMY Modern astronomy has expanded beyond its origins as a pursuit of a lone academic atop a mountain to include vast data generated by collaborative teams using space and ground-based surveys and simulations run on the most powerful supercomputers. Pupin Hall, Astronomy’s home, was built 90 years ago based on a 19th century model of higher education. We now have the opportunity to reimagine Astronomy’s space as it should be for the 21st century. JOIN US Fundamental Science News Jul 29 2020 8 Surprising Facts About Marie Tharp, Mapmaker Extraordinaire Maybe you already know that she created some of the first maps of the ocean floor and helped discover plate tectonics. Here are some lesser-known facts about this history-making cartographer. Read More Jul 28 2020 Columbia Chemistry Receives $21.5 Million Gift from Dr. Ge Li and Dr. Ning Zhao Today, Columbia announced the $21.5 million gift, which will advance research and teaching in chemistry at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Columbia College, and the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. Read More Jul 22 2020 Columbia Astrophysicist Brian Metzger Named 2020 Blavatnik Laureate Research on the origins of gold and other heavy metals garners the nation's largest unrestricted scientific prize for young scientists. Read More More Fundamental Science News Columbia University 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 555-1212 science-commits@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Close