Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Education Overview Master of Arts in Bioethics & Science Policy Undergraduate Programs Duke Graduate Academy Engagement Overview Signature Programs Center on Science & Technology Policy Events Student Groups Trending News Research Overview SLAPLAB Center on Risk Journals Bass Connections About Us Overview Mission People Contact Us Visit Us Employment Giving Education Master of Arts in Bioethics & Science Policy MA Welcome Curriculum Admissions JD/MA Program MD/MA Program The Student Experience Undergraduate Programs Focus Cluster: Science & The Public Huang Fellows Program Science & Society Certificate Programs Duke Engage Washington, DC Duke Graduate Academy Engagement Signature Programs SciReg Lab Center on Science & Technology Policy Events Periodic Tables SciComm Lunch-and-Learn Coronavirus Conversations S&S Dialogues Distinguished Speaker Series Upcoming Events Student Groups Trending News Duke News World News Science & Society News Research SLAPLAB SLAPLAB Researchers Center on Risk Meet our Team Research and Publications Risk Center Events Journals Bass Connections About Us Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion People Leadership & Staff Core Faculty Faculty Governance Committee Associate & Affiliate Faculty Contact Us Visit Us Employment Giving masters Master of Arts [Bio]ethics, [Tech]ethics & Science Policy Center on Science & Technology Policy Engagement Center on Science & Technology Policy highlights HIGHLIGHTS Digital Intelligence Up Down Trending News May 13 LISTEN: The Prospects for U.S. Environmental Policy: A Conversation with Jonathan Wiener Jonathan Wiener, the William and Thomas Perkins Professor of Law at Duke Law School, shared his insights on the prospects for federal fiscal,... May 11 LISTEN: Genetic testing is becoming more accessible — and it’s raising difficult questions NPR's Ari Shapiro talks with bioethicists Nita Farahany and Hank Greely about the ethics of and access to genetic testing, and the power of knowing... May 9 We parents of unvaccinated children need more guidance As mask mandates and other protections fall away — and the vaccines are delayed — we’re wondering what we should be doing to protect our... May 3 American Phone-tracking Firm Demo’d Surveillance Powers By Spying on CIA and NSA Anomaly Six, a secretive government contractor, claims to monitor the movements of billions of phones around the world and unmask spies with the... Apr 25 Lee Tiedrich on the importance of regulations for AI policy Ethical Technology Professor at Duke University, Lee Tiedrich discusses AI policy, how to make it effective and the importance of regulation.... Apr 15 Can brain scans reveal behaviour? Bombshell study says not yet Most studies linking features in brain imaging to traits such as cognitive abilities are too small to be reliable, argues a controversial... View All News Up Down Upcoming Events Jun 15 Reaching the Peak: A Science & Technology Career Summit (Research America) Reaching the Peak: A Science & Technology Career Summit is Research! America's career development event for early career researchers on Wednesday,... 11:00 AM Aug 8 MA in Bioethics & Science Policy Online Information Session We invite potential students and advisors to learn more about the Duke Master in Bioethics & Science Policy. In this interactive webinar, we will... 12:30 PM Sep 1 MA in Bioethics & Science Policy Online Information Session We invite potential students and advisors to learn more about the Duke Master in Bioethics & Science Policy. In this interactive webinar, we will... 12:30 PM Sep 23 MA in Bioethics & Science Policy Online Information Session We invite potential students and advisors to learn more about the Duke Master in Bioethics & Science Policy. In this interactive webinar, we will... 12:30 PM Oct 21 MA in Bioethics & Science Policy Online Information Session We invite potential students and advisors to learn more about the Duke Master in Bioethics & Science Policy. In this interactive webinar, we will... 12:30 PM Nov 17 MA in Bioethics & Science Policy Online Information Session We invite potential students and advisors to learn more about the Duke Master in Bioethics & Science Policy. In this interactive webinar, we will... 12:30 PM Dec 15 MA in Bioethics & Science Policy Online Information Session We invite potential students and advisors to learn more about the Duke Master in Bioethics & Science Policy. In this interactive webinar, we will... 12:30 PM View All Events X People News Events Contact Us Facebook Twitter Subscribe to our newsletter