Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Breadcrumb Science Academics Back to Majors Physics Major Physics Major A way to see the world in a grain of sand On this page Physics Major A way to see the world in a grain of sand What will you do as a physics major? As a physics major, you will study our nationally recognized Paradigms in Physics curriculum which has reinvented the way students learn physics. Through the upper-division Paradigms curriculum, you’ll develop expertise in sub-fields of physics such as electromagnetism, thermal and statistical physics, thermodynamics and quantum mechanics. You will gain interdisciplinary, computational, core and applied physics knowledge and skills through a cutting-edge physics curriculum and acquire hands-on experience working in our laboratories. Eight options, from applied physics to geophysics, within the physics major will prepare you very well for competitive graduate programs as well as jobs in a wide variety of technical and related fields. You will have the freedom to explore and select a course of study that aligns with your academic interests and career goals. You will also write a physics thesis project to deepen your learning and enhance your problem-solving and technical skills in the field. The flexible physics major offers both a B.S. and a B.A. in physics. The B.S. in physics is appropriate for those interested in careers in physics or a related area or in preparing for graduate study. In addition to required course, students pursuing a B.S. in physics will complete 22 credits of required and elective courses. The B.A. degree requires fewer physics courses but more courses from the College of Liberal Arts; in addition, second-year proficiency in a foreign language is required for the B.A. degree. Undergraduate research in physics Nearly all physics’ students participate in undergraduate research internships at OSU and in labs all over the United States and the world. Our undergraduates have engaged in significant research projects in physics labs at OSU and at numerous other institutes such as the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Intel, Stanford University, General Atomics, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and the Weizmann Institute in Israel. These immersive and rigorous research experiences are pivotal to the professional success of our students after they graduate. Options in the physics major Applied Physics The option in Applied Physics combines upper-division physics and engineering courses with core courses in mathematics, chemistry and physics as well as project-driven laboratory experience in computational physics. This option is ideal for students interested in studying and in pursuing jobs at the intersection of science and technology. Biological Physics The Biological Physics option allows students to focus part of their course load on work in the field of biophysics — a field that uses the tools and techniques of physics to solve biological problems, ranging from human systems to biological macromolecules and protein structures. Students interested in biophysics research and industry careers will find this option valuable. Chemical Physics The option in Chemical Physics will help students learn about chemistry processes and phenomena through the perspectives of atomic and molecular physics. This option will prepare you for careers in research as well as a wide range of industry jobs related to chemical engineering. Computational Physics The Computational Physics Option will allow students to study upper-division physics courses in quantum mechanics and electronics and computational science courses in programming fundamentals and mathematical computations, in addition to a number of other topics. This option opens up pathways to exciting jobs in national research laboratories as well as a number of industry jobs that rely on computational models, tools and methods. Geophysics The option in geophysics integrates core courses in physics, chemistry and mathematics to understand the the processes that operate on and in Earth, such as gravitational, seismic, geothermal and other phenomena. Students will study upper-division physics courses in electromagnetism, dynamics of mechanical and electrical oscillation, thermal and statistical physics, among other topics. This option is tailored for students interested in employment opportunities in a wide variety of geosciences, environmental sciences and geotechnical fields as well as graduate school in geology, Earth Science and allied areas. Mathematical Physics The option in mathematical physics is intended for students interested in theoretical physics and the intersections between mathematics and physics. The option includes upper-division core and elective courses in statistical mechanics, computational physics, vector calculus and quantum mechanics. Students will gain an understanding of the theory and applications of physics and mathematics and can endeavor to work in either field. Optical Physics The option in optical physics focuses on the study of light and its interaction with matter in different contexts. Physics courses span contemporary challenges of power generation, energy efficiency and global warming to the study of electromagnetism and electronics. This option prepares students for jobs in optics and lasers across the spectrum of medicine, industry, scientific research and the design and manufacture of optical devices. Physics Teaching The option in physics teaching is well-suited for students who are keen on teaching science at high school or the secondary school level. Students will complete at least eight credits in physics education electives that integrate science and literacy learning for prospective teachers. Explore physics The minor Graduate program Physics Curriculum (B.S. & B.A.) Advising What can you do with a physics degree: Careers of our recent graduates Camera Hardware Engineer at Apple Assistant Professor at Troy University Graduate students at Princeton, Stanford, Brown, UT-Austin Quality Engineers at Crane Aerospace & Electronics, Mentor Graphics Advanced Development Engineer at KLA-Tencor CEO & Founder of PVBid Emergency Medicine Resident at the University of Central Florida Process Engineers at Intel, SkyWater Technology Foundry Research Scientist at Saint Gobain Crystals Postdoctoral Fellow at Berkeley Lab Sample courses Static Fields Physics of Contemporary Challenges Electronics Computational Physics Quantum Fundamentals "The exposure to high-level research gave me the ability to tackle complex problems at the interface of mathematics, physics and computer science." Scott Clark (Physics and Mathematics '08), Co-Founder and CEO of the artificial intelligence start-up SigOpt. Meet our students and alumni From a construction job to Hewlett Packard, a physics major takes an unconventional path to reach his goals Rohal Kakepoto valued the expertise of the faculty and the intimate and supportive atmosphere of the physics department. Like many of Oregon State physics graduates, Kakepoto landed a job as an engineer at Hewlett Packard in Corvallis, which he will start right before graduation. Succeeding in physics with determination and focus after a nontraditional start If there is one thing that Mai Sakuragi has learned during her time at Oregon State University, it is that, with passion and hard work, even seemingly impossible goals can be achieved. Oregon State alum plays integral role in Perseverance landing 2005 physics alumna and planetary geologist Briony Horgan's research was key to determining the location on Mars for the Perseverance rover to explore. Explaining the challenge her team faced, she said, "“If we had to choose just one spot on Earth to gather all the data about the entire history of the planet — well, where would you go?” Oregon State leading $17M effort to understand universe via low-frequency gravitational waves Funded by the NSF as a Physics Frontiers Center, the North American Nanohertz Observatory for Gravitational Waves, or NANOGrav, research group at OSU operates under the direction of Xavier Siemens, professor of physics. Meet a Science Grad: Scott Clark At Oregon State, Scott Clark (08) was able to pursue majors in physics, mathematics and computational physics all at once. Today he is the CEO and co-founder of SigOpt. Next steps Apply to the physics major Current students: Make physics your major Visit the Department of Physics Download Physics Brochure 2021 (PDF) Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback