Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Homepage Toggle Student & Campus Life Menu About SCL Identity Resources Health & Wellness Residential Life Get Involved News & Events Cornell Dining Main Menu Toggle Search Form Sustainability Home About Dining Awards & Accolades Cornell Catering Food Security Guide to Cornell Dining Mystery Shopper Program Sustainablility Employment with Cornell Dining Contact Us Meal Plans & Rates Applications & Changing Plans City Bucks Deadlines & Terms Graduate Meal Plans Manage Your Account Meal Plan FAQs Staff & Faculty Meal Plans Summer Meal Plans Undergraduate Meal Plans Contactless payment Eateries & Menus Dining Rooms Cafés, Food Courts & Coffeehouses Concessions & Suites Convenience Stores Nutrition & Special Diets Order Ahead Vending Machines Events Commencement Weekend Dining 2022 Eateries & Menus Dining Rooms Cafés, Food Courts & Coffeehouses Concessions & Suites Convenience Stores Nutrition & Special Diets Order Ahead Vending Machines Breadcrumb Home Residential Life Dining Eateries Order Ahead We've added five of our cafés to GET Order, our mobile ordering service, as a way of reducing the amount of time guests need to spend in our eateries. Order in advance to reduce your contact and interaction with staff at our cafés, and be more efficient with your time. You can place your order hours ahead if you're sure of your schedule, or simply before walking over. Just skip the line and grab your meal from the pickup station. Access GET Order at get.cbord.com/cornell or search for "CBORD GET" in the app store More details about GET and a tip for Android users: Manage Your Account For Fall 2021, the following eateries offer GET Order mobile ordering service for made-to-order coffee drinks, sandwiches, and more: Amit Bhatia Libe Café, Bear Necessities, Bus Stop Bagels, Café Jennie, Cornell Dairy Bar, Crossings Café, Franny's Food Truck, Goldie's Café, Jansen's Market, Martha's Café, and Mattin's Café. Currently, two of our eateries require online ordering: Bear Necessities in Robert Purcell Community Center on North Campus and Jansen's Market in Noyes Community Recreation Center on West Campus. That applies to all made-to-order salads, grill or deli items, pizzas or wings, and espresso drinks. Online ordering is not required for prepared items you can grab from the coolers, packaged snacks or drinks, and other convenience items. When you order ahead, just prepay with Big Red Bucks (BRBs), MealChoice, or a credit card using the GET app. If you're picking up other items at the same time, you can pay for them by scanning your digital ID with GET My Card at the cashier. Having trouble with GET? Android users may run into a glitch with two-step login using DUO with the GET app. More details and a tip at our Manage Your Account page. If you don't have a smartphone, just use a web browser on any computer or mobile device to place your order before heading to the eatery to pick it up. There is no fee for using GET Order to place your order. Quick Links Additional Resources Dining Hours Sign up for a Meal Plan Eatery Hours Add Dollars to Your Meal Plan Nutritional Information What's on the Menu Give us Feedback Cater an Event Work with Us Report a Lost ID Card Health & Wellness Cornell Health Counseling & Mental Health Nutritional Resources Events Plan an Event Conference & Event Services Campus Groups Bailey Hall University Tickets More Emergency Information Report an Incident Office of the Judicial Administrator Title IX Office Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.