Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities '21-'22 Student Org FAQs & Resources Big Red Guidebook for RSOs Fun Things To Do Leadership Workshop Series Club Advisors Club Sports and/or Physical Activity CampusGroups Student Organization Directory Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Campus Activities Polaroid photobooth at Fall Fest on the Arts Quad during Family Weekend 2021! Contact Us OFFICE LOCATION 521-528 Willard Straight Hall CONTACT activities@cornell.edu Instagram | Facebook Emails and messages will be checked during normal business hours. BUSINESS HOURS Mon - Fri 9:00 am-4:00 pm Note: our in-person/remote schedules are dependent on staffing needs. If you are looking to connect in person, we recommend scheduling a time with a staff member via email. In-person Event & Meeting Guidelines Click here to view the most up-to-date information on hosting in-person events, meetings, and activities for the 2021-2022 academic year. March 2022 update: All events, meetings, activities, and gatherings must follow current University COVID-19 guidelines. This includes policies about guests, masks, food, and other aspects of an event. About Campus Activities! Campus Activities provides vibrant and supportive opportunities that promote and nurture student learning, the practice of leadership, social responsibility, interpersonal skill-building and self-awareness through experiential learning. We bring students and student communities together to: Foster/create a sense of belonging Gain an understanding of, and an appreciation for, diversity Promote health and well-being Foster personal awareness Actively engage in and prepare for their roles as global citizens We cultivate students’ active engagement in Cornell University through registered student organizations, volunteer and employment opportunities as well as participation in events, programs, workshops, and training. Virtual Programs - Ideas and Existing Programs Around the (Virtual) World! COVID-19 updates for events. Mission & Goals Our mission—to provide students with opportunities designed to promote individual growth, creativity, and personal connections through experiential learning—is accompanied by 6 main goals: To empower students and support their activities through the provision of services, facilities, classes, training, and programs. To facilitate and support hands-on experiences where students learn and use leadership and life skills. These skills include team building, group development, supervision, budget development, and fiscal management, marketing and promotion techniques, professional ethics, time management, decision-making, and meeting management. Consult with students, staff, and faculty wishing to hold major events on university property. Evaluate Campus Activities programs, training, and services regularly and initiate change when needed. Commit resources towards applying technological advances to Campus Activities sponsored programs and services. Initiate and support collaboration among students, staff, and faculty in the area of programming. Touchdown throwing a Cornell party on Animal Crossing: New Horizons! Meet the Team Karli Buday Director of Campus Activities ksb95@cornell.edu (607) 255-1242 523 Willard Straight Hall Karli is the Director to Campus Activities within Campus and Community Engagement. The Campus Activities Team strives to focus on promoting and nurturing student learning, social responsibility, and community membership through experiential learning and student involvement. In addition, the office directly works with over 1,000 student organizations to provide mentorship through the year. Read more about Karli Buday Kyle Schillace Associate Director kes292@cornell.edu (607) 255-0619 526 Willard Straight Hall Kyle (he/him) is the Associate Director for Campus Activities. He is happy to support student organizations, event planning, and other parts of the student experience. He is the staff advisor for Club Sports Council, Senior Convocation, and Senior Days. He is also an advisor for Alpha Phi Omega (APO), Cornell Students for Black Lives (C4BL), and Swift @ Cornell. Read more about Kyle Schillace Ricky Boche Assistant Director ehb76@cornell.edu 607-255-9389 525 Willard Straight Hall Ricky has been with Cornell since July of 2019. Prior to his new position in Campus Activities, Ricky served as the Assistant Director of Sorority and Fraternity Life specifically working with the Multicultural Greek and Fraternal Council. He received his B.A. in Foreign Languages- Spanish in 2017 and M.S. in College Student Personnel in 2019 from Western Illinois University in Macomb, IL. The north side of Chicago is where he calls home and he is proud to be of Guatemalan descent. Read more about Ricky Boche Denice Cassaro Assistant Director, Campus Activities dac11@cornell.edu (607) 255-8824 527 Willard Straight Hall Denice is an Assistant Director in Campus Activities where she is dedicated to providing vibrant and supportive opportunities that promote and nurture student learning, the practice of leadership, social responsibility, interpersonal skill-building and self-awareness through experiential learning. She directly advises the Willard Straight Hall Student Union Board, as well as, provides guidance to student organizations and assists with the coordination of on-campus events. Read more about Denice Cassaro Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.