Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Alumni Alumni Life SCL Marketing & Development Team Breadcrumb Home Alumni You can support all Cornell students in just one click. Learn more and make a gift. Cornell University alumni have a steeped tradition in giving in support of the advancement of the university, and the lives of today's Cornellians. From the moment you moved into your first dorm room or other home on campus, until you marched into Schoellkopf Stadium for Commencement, the Division of Student & Campus Life has always been there for every student like you, and thousands of Cornellians before you, every step of the way. All of units within the Division of Student & Campus Life play a vital role in the transformative experiences of our students. From mental and physical health services, the Office of the Dean of Students, student organization support, residential life, health and wellbeing services, and career services we are the foundation of the Cornell student experience. Making a Gift A gift to Student & Campus Life is a gift to every student As part of the esteemed Cornell alumni community, you are a leader for our students. Your gift today to Student & Campus Life is an investment in our students' lives and directly helps them connect with programs, facilities and services to support their life outside of the classroom. SCL strives to create a consistent foundation and to inspire transformation among all Cornell students, and our wide range of support services ensure each student is equipped for success when they leave campus. SCL is at the heart of all students’ experiences at Cornell. Thank you for your commitment to Student & Campus Life, and for believing in all of our students. Stay connected to Cornell and life on campus We look forward to engaging with you at one of the many events throughout the year: Cornell Homecoming Cornell Reunion Family Weekend Family Fellows Follow Student & Campus Life on Instagram and Facebook, and join our mailing list to stay connected to news and events on campus. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.