Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Get Involved with the Women's Resource Center Get Support Meet the Team Breadcrumb Home Women's Resource Center Contact Us ADDRESS 209 Willard Straight Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 CONTACT p: (607) 255-1406 wrc@cornell.edu HOURS Mon - Fri 9:00 am-5:00 pm SOCIAL Instagram Linktree The mission of the Cornell Women's Resource Center (WRC) is to foster a more vibrant campus community by supporting the full and active participation of women-identified students in both their personal and educational pursuits at Cornell. The WRC champions endeavors that support women's education, empowerment, and advancement at Cornell and beyond.The WRC strives to be a welcoming space for people of all genders and identities. We especially encourage women of color, Black feminists/womanists, queer and trans folks, and people with disabilities to drop by, attend our programming, apply for co-sponsorships, and speak with us about your concerns. To stay apprised of upcoming events, please check us out on Campus Groups. Find the Cornell Women's Resource Center on Linktree to find our social media and links to events, and follow our Instagram to stay up-to-date on all of our future events and programs and to engage with the center virtually! Funding & Sponsorship Co-Sponsored Programs Is your organization planning an event that is consistent with the mission of the Gender Justice Advocacy Center (GJAC) formerly known as the Women's Resource Center Executive Board? Are you looking for funding through the GJAC co-sponsorship fund? GJAC would love to hear from you! Our application for funding can be found through your organization's Campus Groups page under Money>Accounting Book>FY22 GJAC. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis. **All funding decisions are subject to the GJAC budget for co-sponsorship allocations and are made at the discretion of GJAC.** Search Our Collection The Women's Resource Center houses a comprehensive selection of books on such areas as: women’s history, feminist theory, gender and sexuality studies, sociology, political studies, biography and autobiography, anthropology, as well as fiction. We are delighted to have over 1,200 books in our collection, available to anyone in the Cornell community to borrow—for coursework or personal edification! Books can be checked out when the Center is open; please see a student staffer or the Director for assistance. Browse our collection of literature. Our History The story of the Women's Resource Center (WRC) is one filled with a dedication to education, awareness, activism, and change. At the center of it all has been a group of students, women and men, who have recognized the need for a space devoted to serving the needs of women students at Cornell. Although little has been chronicled over the years, it has been possible through a few remaining scrapbooks, slides, and other resources, to loosely trace the history of the WRC over the past twenty-five or so years. The Women's Resource Center was started in the early 1970s as a student organization. At a time when political awareness was at the center of the Women's Movement, the WRC was active in sponsoring discussions and events on issues such as abortion, equal pay, racism, and women's health. A lending library, as well as, comprehensive directories of campus and community services was established. In the mid 1990s the WRC surfaced once again, with a newly decorated office and a large staff of dedicated student volunteers. These volunteers worked many hours each week staffing the office so that visitors could access the services provided. These services included a lending library, lectures and events, community service opportunities and a chance to work on the WRC's literary magazine, Forword. The WRC made great strides in moving into 21st century in the fall of 1998 when the first full-time director was hired, made possible by the support and funding of the Undergraduate Student Assembly. This two- year funding cycle allowed the WRC to further develop its services and programs, while working towards solidifying its position within the University. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.