Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Tatkon Center Orientation Families of New Students Connecting with Faculty Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Tatkon Center for New Students Tatkon Center for New Students Staff We are dedicated to supporting first-year and transfer students throughout their first year, as well as upper-level students involved in Orientation and the Tatkon Center. We work together with our colleagues throughout Student & Campus Life to support the student experience. Meet the Tatkon Center for New Students Staff Kevin Perry Director, Tatkon Center for New Students kp459@cornell.edu (607) 254-2252 Joining in 2022, Kevin Perry has over nine years of experience in student affairs, the last five years in first-year experience and orientation. Prior to Cornell, Kevin served as the inaugural Associate Director of New Student and Transition Programs at Ithaca College, where he led the transition of the college's Orientation program from several summer sessions to a single fall session. Kevin is an active member of the NODA professional organization (Association for Orientation, Transition, & Retention) and currently serves on the Regional Leadership Team and as the 2023 Regional Conference Co-Host. He attended The State University of New York, Brockport where he earned a B.A. in English and Political Science, and went on to earn an M. Ed in Higher Education Administration from The State University of New York at Stony Brook. When not working, Kevin likes to spend his time with his dog Cocoa, a 10 year old lab-pointer. He enjoys cooking and whenever possible, spending his time outdoors; camping, kayaking, and can often be seen biking the Ithaca waterfront trail. Kevin is most excited about building strong relationships with students, staff, and faculty as he learns more about campus and to provide strategic direction as we align the first-year and orientation programming under the Tatkon Center for New Students. Taylor Bouraad Assistant Director for First-Year Experience, Tatkon Center for New Students Residence Hall Director, Mews Hall & Loving House: the LGBTQ+ Living Learning Unit Advisor, Residential Student Congress tb533@cornell.edu (607) 254-2363 Joining in March 2022, Taylor Bouraad has over six years of experience in student affairs, with the past four years working at Cornell University as a residence hall director for the Mews & Loving House community. Taylor has a passion for supporting new students as they navigate the ambiguity of their first year at Cornell while encouraging them to explore the multi-dimensional pieces of their identity. Taylor is currently a Master of Public Health candidate here at Cornell and attended Stony Brook University where she earned her B.S. in Marine Vertebrate Biology and her M.A. in Higher Education Administration. Larissa Hensley Program Assistant, Tatkon Center for New Students dlh227@cornell.edu (607) 255-5808 In 2011, Larissa joined Tatkon Center for New Students. In her current role, she supports the first-year experience, New Student Orientation, and Family Weekend, including administrative support, event planning, communications, and marketing. Larissa holds a B.A. in Psychology from Creighton University, B.F.A. in Illustration from RISD, and A.M. in Studio Arts from Harvard Extension School. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.