Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Tatkon Center Orientation Families of New Students Family Orientation Family Weekend Resources for Families Connecting with Faculty Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Families of New Students Welcome to Cornell! Parents and families are important partners in the student experience, and we invite you to email us at nsp@cornell.edu with questions, concerns, and ideas to support your student. While many of our student connections and programs may be virtual in the months to come, our commitment to easing students through the transition to Cornell remains unchanged. Staff is here to provide resources, answer questions, and support new students and families, as well as to create meaningful first-year experiences. The Transition to College: Supporting Your Student How can families support their students? As the move to campus approaches, talk about what the coming weeks may hold, explore campus resources together, review financial and other logistics, and plan for ways to keep in touch. It can take time to learn how to encourage independence in your student while offering them your support. Listening to them, asking open-ended questions, and being patient with new communication patterns can ease this process. Mention the importance of self-care, sleep, eating well, and making time for fun and relaxation. Encourage your student to develop supportive relationships on campus with advisors, residence hall staff, counselors, and peers. A quick text or email listing a few campus resources may help them find the right connection. Your student’s college website and the Student and Campus Life website are good places to start. Communication and Celebration Don’t forget to celebrate achievements large and small, remind your student of the progress they’ve made in adapting to college, and share your excitement about the opportunities they’re exploring at Cornell. Maintaining consistent communication and offering nonjudgmental support to your student can help make this a smooth transition. If you need support to manage the impact of this change in your own life, seek out peers who have been through it, or talk with a trusted advisor or counselor. Emergency Assistance If you think that your student is in serious danger or at risk of harm, contact the Cornell University Police at (607) 255-1111. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.