Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Breadcrumb Home Report an Incident These reporting avenues are for non-emergency incidents or concerns only. For emergencies, including safety concerns, call CU Police (607) 255-1111 or dial 911. For health concerns, call Cornell Health 24/7 at (607) 255-5155. Reporting, understanding, and preventing unacceptable behaviors such as bias, sexual misconduct, and hazing are essential to maintaining our caring community. Below are avenues for reporting these incidents as well as receiving confidential care and support if you need it. Bias and discrimination reporting To report bias and discrimination incidents or related concerns, complete this form or send an email to equity@cornell.edu. Know that confidential care and support for individuals affected by bias are available through Cornell Health. More information about Cornell’s bias reporting system is also available. Reporting sexual misconduct, including sexual harassment Complete this form or send an email to titleix@cornell.edu if you need to report gender-based harassment, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, or other forms of sexual misconduct. Complete information about reporting options and help with accommodations is available on Cornell's Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX (OIETIX) website. The SHARE website has many resources to help you get support in the event of sexual harassment or assault. Policy 6.4 provides definitions and explains the procedures employed for investigating and adjudicating allegations of sexual misconduct. Reporting hazing While being part of a campus group can be one of the most meaningful aspects of student life, hazing is often a hidden, but serious problem that undermines the value of these experiences and poses risk of physical and mental harm for many individuals. Confidential channels for reporting hazing are available on Cornell’s hazing prevention website. Ask for help if you need it Cornell's Mental Health website will help you locate offices, services, and organizations in every corner of this campus to offer you assistance, support, connection, intervention, reporting, and advocacy. For 24/7 confidential consultation with a health care provider or counselor, students may call Cornell Health at (607) 255-5155; faculty and staff may call the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program at (607) 255-2673. You can always start with the Dean of Students at dean_of_students@cornell.edu or (607) 255-1115 if you're unsure where to go. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.