Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Breadcrumb Home Welcome Big Red Families! Whether this is your first time having a student in college or you have been through this before, it is always a new adventure. During the transition, and every year after that, we want to make sure that you and your student feel supported every step of the way. Cornell University considers parents and family members to be valuable partners in student success. The Office of Parent & Family Programs is committed to helping parents and families support the success of their students by informing, supporting, and engaging you with Cornell. At Cornell, we embrace the multi-dimensional diversity of family structures, including families of origin and families of choice. We welcome and encourage the involvement of all family members, friends, and other supporters in the lives of our Cornell students. We invite you to contact our office with your questions or concerns at parents@cornell.edu. If you have an immediate concern about the health and safety of your student outside of business hours, please contact Cornell University Police Department. Please be sure to sign up to receive email notifications from Cornell. This includes monthly Family Newsletters, many campus-wide messages, and information to keep you informed all year long. Office of Parent and Family Programs Lindsey Bray Director, Parent and Family Programs lb737@cornell.edu Lindsey Bray serves as the Director of Parent & Family Programs. She has worked with parents and families of college students for over 12 years. Lindsey earned her bachelor's degree in Political Science from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, and her master's degree in History and Graduate Certificates in Museum Studies and Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership from the University of Memphis. She is currently working on her Ed.D. in Adult and Higher Education from the University of Memphis. Before joining Cornell, she served as Sr. Read more about Lindsey Bray Helpful Links COVID-19 Updates Family Orientation Convocation and Commencement Receive the Family Newsletter Care and Crisis Services Wellness Resources Resources for Families Campus Alerts Connect with us on Facebook News More News Reviewing Mental Health on Campus 5/31/22 Cornell students offer their perspective on reviewing mental health on campus. Wu encourages grads to embrace their stories 5/26/22 Actress, producer and writer Constance Wu displayed plenty of wisdom in her keynote address at the 2022 Convocation. Flat fee for course materials aims to increase student success 5/26/22 CAMP program allows all Cornell undergraduates to access their required course materials for a flat fee of $225. Events More Events Cornell Wellness Speed & Agility Series 07 Jun Time: 12:00pm to 12:45pm Location: Jessup Field Cornell Men's Track & Field vs NCAA Outdoor Championships 08 Jun Time: 12:00am Location: Eugene Cornell Wellness Step It Up Series 08 Jun Time: 12:00pm to 12:45pm Location: Schoellkopf Field Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.