Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Homepage Toggle Student & Campus Life Menu About SCL Identity Resources Health & Wellness Residential Life Get Involved News & Events Cornell Housing Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home On-Campus Housing First-Year Undergraduates New Transfer Undergraduates Upperlevel Undergraduates Graduate & Professional Students Residents with Disabilities Visiting Faculty & Affiliates Summer Housing Conference Housing Commencement Housing Engage with Faculty Residential Policy Housing Details Rates, Amenities, & Contracts Apply for Housing Gender-Inclusive Housing Moving In On Campus Moving Out Community Rules & Standards Room Inspection Community Centers Appel Commons Community Center Bailey Hall Carol Tatkon Center for First-Year Students Hasbrouck Community Center Noyes Community Recreation Center Reserve Community Center Space Robert Purcell Community Center Service Centers and Mail Staff Willard Straight Hall Student Union Off-Campus Living About Us Housing Search Process Living Off Campus Resources Landlords Contact Us Housing & Dining Contracts Offices Residential Staff Directory Faculty Programs Contacts Your Laundry Account Maintenance Requests Get Involved Student Employment On-Campus Housing First-Year Undergraduates New Transfer Undergraduates Upperlevel Undergraduates Cooperative Housing Program Houses Residence Halls 112 Edgemoor Cascadilla Hall Ganędagǫ: Hall McGraw Place Residences Schuyler House Sheldon Court Toni Morrison Hall Townhouse Community West Campus House System Graduate & Professional Students Residents with Disabilities Visiting Faculty & Affiliates Summer Housing Conference Housing Commencement Housing Engage with Faculty Residential Policy Breadcrumb Home Residential Life Housing On-Campus Housing Residence Halls Ganędagǫ: Hall Housing Location 121 Triphammer Rd, Ithaca, NY 14850, USA Ganędagǫ: Hall is part of Cornell's Sophomore Village, and will house upperlevel students from the 2022-2023 academic year onward. For the 2021-2022 academic year, Ganędagǫ: Hall housed first-year students. Ganędagǫ: Hall is named in the language of the Gayogo̱ hó꞉nǫ’, the name for the Cayuga Nation in their own language. Ganędagǫ: (pronounced Gah-NEH-dah-go), means “it's in the hill,” which was the ancestral name for the land upon which Cornell is built. The naming was supported by the Cayuga Nation’s current leadership. Through creative floor plans, Ganędagǫ: Hall provides living spaces with a modern aesthetic that enhances the residential experience and encourages interaction and collaboration among students. Ganędagǫ: Hall aims to draw students out of their individual rooms and into ample common areas that support group study, social interaction, and programs in spacious lounges and nearby cafés. Ganędagǫ: Hall's Residence Hall Director, Faculty-in-Residence member, and Resident Advisors will host programs and activities for all interests that help students meet new friends and make connections to the university community. Community Features 564 residents Located on North Campus Single and double rooms arranged in suites with shared bathrooms. Suites are single gender; floors are mixed gender. Lounges, study areas, shared kitchen spaces, a music practice room, and laundry facilities Bedrooms contain, for each occupant: an extra-long twin bed, a wardrobe and three drawer bureau, a desk and desk chair, a desk lamp, a wastebasket, and recycling bin Wireless Internet access Ganędagǫ: Hall is air conditioned. Affiliated Faculty Susan Daniel, Fred H. Rhodes Professor in the Robert Frederick Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, is the Faculty-in-Residence for Ganędagǫ: Hall and Toni Morrison Hall. She and her partner, Michael, make their home in the Faculty-in-Residence house right down the road and regularly spend time with student members of the Ganędagǫ: Hall community. Ganędagǫ: Hall also has a number of Faculty and Community Fellows that provide students with opportunities to explore and cultivate their academic, intellectual, and cultural interests. You will find them attending events in your building, eating with students in the dining room, and leading on- and off-campus trips to lectures, plays, films, concerts, and regional points of interest. Laundry Payment for use of washers and dryers is through a Campus Life debit account accessed by downloading the CSCPay Mobile App to add funds to your laundry account. You can download the app from the App Store or Google Play. The recommended starting amount is $25. Subsequent deposits can be made at any time. The balance in your laundry account will remain active as long as you live in University housing. Please note that any balance remaining after you move out of University housing cannot be refunded. Dining Options Learn about Cornell Dining undergraduate meal plans. Questions? Contact Cornell Housing. Housing Population Type Upperlevel Students Quick Links Additional Resources Apply for Housing Eatery Hours Off-Campus Living New Students Add Money to Your Laundry Account Graduate Students Parent Resources Cornell Store Place a Maintenance Request Health & Wellness Cornell Health Counseling & Mental Health Nutritional Resources Events Plan an Event Conference & Event Services Campus Groups Bailey Hall Concerts University Tickets More Emergency Information Report an Incident Office of the Judicial Administrator Title IX Office Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.