Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Breadcrumb Home About SCL A message from Vice President Ryan Lombardi Cornell is home to the very best and world-renowned faculty, passionate students, dedicated staff, limitless clubs and organizations, and many other resources for you to make this experience uniquely your own. It’s up to you to use your imagination, creativity, and the process of trial and error to create an educational experience that works for you. The Division of Student & Campus Life will be here to provide you with programs and opportunities that inspire your journey and your transformation. This site is designed to help you find the many services our division provides to create a campus environment that enables you to thrive at Cornell.We promote the wellbeing of the entire campus community through Cornell Health’s wholistic wellness approach and Athletics & Physical Education’s intramural sports, PE courses, and recreation. We foster community on campus through residential programs, cheering on our varsity sports teams, and bringing people together in our many dining establishments. Whether you are looking for leadership and volunteer opportunities through Campus and Community Engagement, trying to determine and plan for your career with Cornell Career Services, or need support in your identity development with the Dean of Students, Student & Campus Life has the resources you need. I encourage you to extend your learning beyond the classroom, and embrace the breadth of Cornell. I look forward to seeing you on campus! Ryan T. Lombardi, Ed.D. Vice President for Student & Campus Life Follow Vice President Ryan Lombardi on Instagram — @vp_lombardi Cornell University Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Events More Events Cornell Wellness Speed & Agility Series 07 Jun Time: 12:00pm to 12:45pm Location: Jessup Field Cornell Men's Track & Field vs NCAA Outdoor Championships 08 Jun Time: 12:00am Location: Eugene Cornell Wellness Step It Up Series 08 Jun Time: 12:00pm to 12:45pm Location: Schoellkopf Field Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.