Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students About the Dean of Students Care and Crisis Services Community Response Team Dean's Certification Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Our DOS Team Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Breadcrumb Home Office of the Dean of Students Contact Us ADDRESS 207 Willard Straight Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 CONTACT Dean of Students Staley Center p: (607) 254-8598 Office of the Dean p: (607) 255-1115 Email Us HOURS Mon - Fri 8:00 am-5:00 pm A message from the Dean of Students During my undergraduate years, my Dean of Students was instrumental in shaping my college experience and inspiring me to focus my career around supporting transformation through the college student experience. He often serves a reminder of why I find this work so special. So I welcome you to the office of the Dean of students with the desire to pay that investment forward This office has a long and rich history of supporting students in their individual endeavors throughout their time at Cornell. My role as the Robert W. and Elizabeth C. Staley Dean of Students is to be an advocate for the student experience and seek to be highly engaged in conversations about the issues that impact undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Along with my team, I am deeply invested in a transformational student experience and the opportunities to develop the tools that will shape your life during and after Cornell. The Office of the Dean of Students is focused on the co-curricular experience, the classroom outside of the classroom. We desire to enhance the academic life of all students and believe that learning continues and is made more meaningful through life in community. I am committed to building a sense of community and belonging among all students through identity conscious approaches that cultivate meaning-making. To facilitate this environment, I am committed to equity, inclusion, and justice in my approach to leading the units within the Office of the Dean of Students. Along with your triumphs, you will face challenges at Cornell, and we are here to support you in those moments too. Resilience comes from supporting each other in the best times as well as the difficult times. From our Diversity and Inclusion teams and Care and Crisis Services, to the Community Response Team and Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards, each member of the Office of the Dean of Students staff is committed to connecting you to resources, being a thought partner in ethical decision making, and celebrating what makes you a unique member of the Cornell community. We shape this community together by investing in each other. I encourage you to engage deeply in Cornell’s curricular and co-curricular opportunities. My team and I are ready and able to help you find the answers you need, so please visit our office, schedule an appointment, or give us a call. Marla Love Robert W. and Elizabeth C. Staley Dean of Students Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.