Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center A3C Programs COVID-19 Resources Event Planning Info for Student Orgs Get Involved with A3C Meet the Team Resources from A3C First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Breadcrumb Home Asian & Asian American Center (A3C) Contact Us ADDRESS 626 Thurston Ave Second Floor Ithaca, NY 14853 CONTACT p: (607) 255-9438 or 607-255-7708 aaac@cornell.edu SOCIAL Instagram The mission of the Asian & Asian American Center (A3C) is to acknowledge and celebrate the rich diversity that Asian, Pacific Islander, and Desi American (APIDA) students bring to Cornell and to actively foster a supportive and inclusive campus community. We create and promote positive interactions to contribute to the multicultural education of all students and to the social/cultural development of leaders. A3C’s efforts are guided by our four pillars: advocacy, education, identity and community-building. We strive to be an affirming and responsive space that enhances sense of belonging. All are welcome and encouraged to get involved and engage in our programs. Advocacy Serve as an advocate for students. Advise on matters that impact the community and offer guidance on specific issues as they arise. Community Connect and collaborate with students, staff, faculty, and members of the Ithaca community to create a space that serves as a second home for Asian Pacific Islander Desi American (APIDA) students. Education Provide resources and conduct educational workshops and trainings for the campus. Identity Foster space for students to explore their multiple and intersecting identities. Stay in Touch Join our mailing list. Click on the link https://cornell.campusgroups.com/A3C/club_signup to receive our weekly newsletter and other major event announcements. Interested in our history? Contact us! Events More Events Lingua Mater Student Competition Deadline 30 Oct Time: 12:00am Location: Lingua Mater Alumni Competition Deadline 30 Oct Time: 12:00am Location: EMI Conference 2022 04 Nov Time: 12:00pm to 6:00pm Location: To Be Announced News More News Flat fee for course materials aims to increase student success 5/26/22 CAMP program allows all Cornell undergraduates to access their required course materials for a flat fee of $225. Wu encourages grads to embrace their stories 5/26/22 Actress, producer and writer Constance Wu displayed plenty of wisdom in her keynote address at the 2022 Convocation. Taking a New Approach to Student Conduct at Cornell 5/10/22 The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards (OSCCS) launched in the summer of 2021 with the goal of supporting the holistic development. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.