Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Tatkon Center Orientation August Orientation Winter Orientation Volunteer for Orientation Families of New Students Connecting with Faculty Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Residential Life New Student Orientation Orientation Welcome to Cornell! We have an exciting and comprehensive orientation program planned for you. Orientation will help you meet new people, begin to explore campus, learn about amazing opportunities, and make discoveries that will become part of your Cornell experience. It’s a unique opportunity for you to develop your network and start the semester on a positive note. Orientation is an opportunity to try something new, talk to people you don’t know, learn about Cornell’s values and expectations, and ask any question you need answered. We hope you’ll continue to engage and cultivate curiosity throughout your time at Cornell. Make the Most of Orientation Your arrival in Fall or Winter begins your Cornell journey. Regardless of the season, the Orientation schedule is packed with programs, both required and optional, that are designed to welcome you to Cornell’s intellectual community, explore interests, make you aware of resources and opportunities, and introduce you to new people. Utilize Your Resources newstudents.cornell.edu contains everything you need to know about being a new student at Cornell. Think of it as the launching point for your Cornell experience. Check it often. Use Cornell's official schedule to build your personal orientation program and to explore Cornell's resources and opportunities. The program will be a mix of asynchronous (on your own time) and synchronous (live) events. Consider Your Course Your time here at Cornell University is precious. Get to know the community, explore opportunities, and above all, don’t hesitate to ask questions. Consider what you want to be a part of while you are here. Will you be active in a club? Choose to explore the arts? How about community service? Do you want to be in an honors program? Are you looking for research opportunities? Does participation in student government interest you? Your exploration begins with Orientation and continues through your first year and beyond. Connect with Students, Faculty, and Staff Current students play a major role in planning your Orientation. The Orientation Steering Committee (OSC) plans and executes New Student Orientation. Hundreds of students serve as Orientation Leaders and Transfer Orientation Leaders in both August and January. You will be matched with an Orientation Leader (OL) from your college who will meet with you and other new students in a small group. Perhaps as you become involved as a student at Cornell you'll volunteer to be an Orientation Leader yourself. In addition to your OL, make an effort to get to know these people to make the most of your Cornell experience—and to provide a support team—if you need help: Your faculty advisor, advising office staff, and peer mentors in your college. Your resident advisor (RA) in your first-year community. Tatkon Center student staff Faculty fellows and faculty in residence who engage with students and develop programs where they live. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.