Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life About Us Our Community Signature Programs Policies and Procedures Presidential Reforms Alumni of Sororities or Fraternities Giving Opportunities Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Sorority & Fraternity Life Contact Us ADDRESS 136 Ho Plaza Willard Straight Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 CONTACT p: (607) 255-2310 greeks@cornell.edu Meet Our Team HOURS Mon - Fri 9:00 am-5:00 pm SOCIAL Facebook The Cornell Sorority & Fraternity community dates to the first months of University operation during the autumn of 1868. Cornell's co-founder and first president, Andrew Dickson White, was a strong promoter of fraternal organizations as a means of teaching self-governance to students. Today, we strive to continue that ethos. Our office provides support and resources to the self-governed Cornell sorority and fraternity community. Sororities and fraternities are values-based social organizations, providing members with a community of peers, and personal growth opportunities through leadership development and service projects. Many of the organizations also offer a small residential living experience. Currently, one-third of the undergraduate student body (approximately 3,000+ students) belongs to one of the over 50 recognized fraternities or sororities that make up the sorority and fraternity community. Individually these organizations present members with unique personal development opportunities. Collectively, the sorority and fraternity community provides thousands of students the platform from which they contribute to the local, regional and global communities. NEWS & ANNOUNCEMENTS Chapter Updates Sigma Alpha Epsilon has returned to Cornell University. The National organization, in collaboration with organizational Alumni will work to publicize, recruit, and interview potential members beginning in the fall semester. Stay tuned for more information. Sigma Gamma Rho as returned to Cornell University. The National organization, in collaboration with organizational Alumni will work to publicize, recruit, and interview potential members beginning in the fall semester. Stay tuned for more information. Sigma Nu Fraternity will return to Cornell University and the Interfraternity Council in Fall 2021. The National organization, in collaboration with organizational Alumni will work to publicize, recruit, and interview potential members beginning in the fall semester. Stay tuned for more information. Open Live-In-Advisor/House Director Positions Visit Cornell’s coronavirus webpage for the most current campus updates and FAQs. News More News First Black fraternity to build monument at its birthplace 5/9/22 Alpha Phi Alpha First Black fraternity to build monument at its birthplace Gift from Delta Gamma supports Women’s Resource Center 3/21/22 Cornell’s Chi Chapter of Delta Gamma Supports the WRC 5 Ways for Students to Start the Year Strong 12/14/21 5 Ways to Start the New Year Strong Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.