Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Homepage Toggle Student & Campus Life Menu About SCL Identity Resources Health & Wellness Residential Life Get Involved News & Events Cornell Dining Main Menu Toggle Search Form Sustainability Home About Dining Awards & Accolades Cornell Catering Food Security Guide to Cornell Dining Mystery Shopper Program Sustainablility Employment with Cornell Dining Contact Us Meal Plans & Rates Applications & Changing Plans City Bucks Deadlines & Terms Graduate Meal Plans Manage Your Account Meal Plan FAQs Staff & Faculty Meal Plans Summer Meal Plans Undergraduate Meal Plans Contactless payment Eateries & Menus Dining Rooms Cafés, Food Courts & Coffeehouses Concessions & Suites Convenience Stores Nutrition & Special Diets Order Ahead Vending Machines Events Commencement Weekend Dining 2022 Eateries & Menus Dining Rooms Cafés, Food Courts & Coffeehouses Concessions & Suites Convenience Stores Nutrition & Special Diets Food Allergies & Special Diets Nutrition Resources Order Ahead Vending Machines Breadcrumb Home Residential Life Dining Eateries Nutrition & Special Diets As part of Cornell Dining's purpose to Nourish the Future, students have free access to meet with us to discuss how to best navigate the dining hall for your specific dietary needs. Our team members review all menus served and help to make sure students have access to healthy menu items. Look for the Eating Well apple on our menus to easily spot options that are: 100% whole grain 100% trans-fat free made with only fresh ingredients lower in fat, sugar, and salt content To follow along with our mission, we are committed to serve house made high quality food that follows the guidelines below: Are chef prepared - we have a team of award winning chefs that are passionate for food and are creative in their menus. 100% trans-fat free. We use canola oil, not soy or peanut oil, in our fryers. A large variety of vegetarian and vegan options are offered at every meal. We serve locally produced Cornell Dairy milk, yogurt, cheese, and ice cream. All pizza dough is made from scratch daily, including the whole grain pizza dough. We serve local apples year round and serve locally produced apple cider. We choose high quality ingredients with few additives and allergens. We accommodate all special dietary needs in a supportive and sensitive manner. We write menus with seasonality in mind and try to incorporate local foods whenever possible. We train all employees to serve food safely through the ServSafe food safety program. We train all employees to serve food safely through the AllerTrain food allergen training program. All dining staff members complete the AllerTrain food allergen training program. We hire food safety auditors to help us maintain the cleanest kitchens possible. We take suggestions and recommendations from our student customers seriously. We work closely with the Student Assembly Dining Committee to help guide our decisions. Consult our Team Michelle Nardi, Registered Dietitian Nutritionist Phone: 607-254-2389 Email: diningnutrition@cornell.edu Office: 108A Appel Commons Quick Links Additional Resources Dining Hours Sign up for a Meal Plan Eatery Hours Add Dollars to Your Meal Plan Nutritional Information What's on the Menu Give us Feedback Cater an Event Work with Us Report a Lost ID Card Health & Wellness Cornell Health Counseling & Mental Health Nutritional Resources Events Plan an Event Conference & Event Services Campus Groups Bailey Hall University Tickets More Emergency Information Report an Incident Office of the Judicial Administrator Title IX Office Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.