Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories News & Events Events News Student Stories Breadcrumb Home News & Events All News Title Department - Any -Campus ActivitiesCareer ServicesCornell CommitmentCornell Outdoor EducationDavid M. Einhorn Center for Community EngagementDean of StudentsDiningHousingNew Student ProgramsOff-Campus LivingSCLSCL StaffSorority Fraternity LifeTatkon Center Reviewing Mental Health on Campus 5/31/22 Since Fall 2020, the University has been managing a campus-wide deep dive into the MHR Final Report, largely via formal and informal working groups and conversations between campus partners. Flat fee for course materials aims to increase student success 5/26/22 Beginning in fall 2022, all Cornell undergraduates will be able to access their required course materials for a flat fee of $225 per semester through an innovative new university program. Wu encourages grads to embrace their stories 5/26/22 Actress, producer and writer Constance Wu displayed plenty of wisdom in her keynote address at the 2022 Convocation. Taking a New Approach to Student Conduct at Cornell 5/10/22 The OSCCS staff do not talk about accountability and repercussions in the traditional sense; instead, they ask students who violated the Code to actively participate in a conduct process that humanizes their mistakes and treats them as the unique individual they are. First Black fraternity to build monument at its birthplace 5/9/22 Groundbreaking and public fundraising kickoff May 13-15 Career Development Toolkit Wins Award for Technology Innovation 5/3/22 Career Development Toolkit wins Eastern Association of Colleges and Employers (EACE) inaugural Excellence in Technology Award. Where Freezin’ for a Reason and Doing the Greatest Good Meet 4/15/22 Late last month groups of students from across campus came together to participate in the Ithaca Polar Plunge and, in doing so, helped to raise more than $85,000 for New York State’s Special Olympics athletes, exceeding the organization’s goal by $25,000. A Cornell Student’s Guide to Staying Active Year-Round: Spring Edition 4/14/22 Students discuss the many ways to get outside this spring, and why everyone should. Student Organizations: finding community, identity, and leadership at Cornell 4/13/22 Students discuss the many ways every student can try something new, meet new people, and develop a strong community to aid in their personal and academic successes at Cornell. Student Translator-Interpreter Program breaks language barriers 4/12/22 For Chen, some of the most impactful work has been helping non-English speakers on campus. In collaboration with the Community Learning and Service Partnership (CLASP), TIP took on a semesterlong project of translating 10 different units of study materials into multiple languages for a highly technical food safety test required by all Cornell Dining employees. Classroom tips, resources provided in new LGBTQ guide 4/11/22 New guide helps create a welcoming and inclusive environment Study Away helped Cornell students forge, keep connections 4/11/22 When the COVID-19 pandemic struck in 2020, Cornell’s international students were faced with a tough decision: Return home before borders closed and risk uncertainty about re-entering the U.S., or remain on campus far away from loved ones. Soup & Hope creates connection through storytelling 4/11/22 Listen to the 2022 season Students sharpen their culinary skills in new Discovery Kitchen 3/30/22 In February, students in the two-credit course NS2470: Food For Contemporary Living gathered for the first time in the Discovery Kitchen, a state-of-the-art teaching space built into the ground floor of Toni Morrison Hall on North Campus. Guide to 2022 - 2023 Housing for Upper-level Students 3/30/22 While the sign-up process for 2022 - 2023 housing won't begin until January 2022, there will be information sessions this fall, and some deadlines, such as to apply to be an RA. Job and Internship Scams - What To Do 3/28/22 Online job boards seem like a great way to scour the web for opportunities, but they also give scammers a direct line to your contact information, so you need to be diligent. Recognize red flags, do your homework, and make sure it's legit. Keep safe online! Cornell Dining Commits to Sustainability in Eateries Across Campus 3/23/22 Cornell Dining claims to have a strong commitment to sustainability efforts and reducing the University’s carbon footprint. A shift away from pandemic-era disposable options is amping up goals surrounding sustainability. Ramadan 2022 for those observing at Cornell 3/22/22 As Ramadan begins the evening of Saturday, April 2nd, we'd like to share with you the resources available to students, staff, and faculty on campus who are observing this month of fasting. Gift from Delta Gamma supports Women’s Resource Center 3/21/22 Gift from Chapter will establish ongoing speaker series. The Second City Comes to Cornell 3/18/22 Three special programs March 25 - 26 Current Athletes on the 50th anniversary of Women Varsity Athletics at Cornell University 3/8/22 Student athletes discuss what it means to them to reflect on 50 years of Women Varsity Athletics at Cornell University Cornell Students Share a Guide to Getting Outdoors this Winter 3/1/22 Students discuss the many ways to get outside this winter, and why everyone should. Students Take on Jeopardy! 2/18/22 Students reflect on exciting journey to game show MLK speakers: Embrace, occupy your Black stories 2/14/22 Authors Danté Stewart and Cole Arthur Riley find power in storytelling. Beware of Job and Internship Scams 1/31/22 Review CIT article on Tips to Avoid Fake Student Job Postings That Can Cost You Money Pagination Page 1 Next page ›› Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.