Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Cornell is the Land Grant institution of New York State—public service is part of our mission and it's central to many students' lives. Volunteer your time and talents to help your fellow students, the Ithaca community or around the globe. The David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement connects students with community partners in Tompkins County and around the world. Cornell has one of the largest Orientation staff in the country. Each year, over 400 volunteers assist new students in making the transition to Cornell. Each residence hall has a student-led Hall Council which is dedicated to supporting the community experience. Organizations in the Dean of Students office, including the LGBT Resource Center and A3C welcome volunteers each year to help organize and run the centers' activities. Volunteering is a pillar of Greek life. Get involved with EARS (Empathy, Assistance & Referral Service) or explore other student organizations with service-minded missions. Student volunteers help keep Slope Day safe. Volunteer with the Women's Resource Center and help produce programs and events. Cornell Tradition fellows and Meinig scholars participate in all kinds of service in and around the community. Event organizers who are looking for help, can also contact them: tradition@cornell.edu and kd15@cornell.edu for Meinig Scholars. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.