Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Student Employment Are you looking for a chance to contribute to Cornell and earn some money at the same time? Students work at jobs and internships ranging from office support to peer counselor to intramural referee. Student & Campus Life is the university's largest employer. Most departments hire students at the beginning of the academic year. Check out the Student Employment website for specific job postings. Here are a few ideas to inspire you. There are so many different student employment opportunities from working at the Cornell Store and working in dining to working with Residential Life and working in Cornell catering or Conference & Event Services. Did you know Cornell Dining, one of the biggest student employers, offers free meals in addition to great pay and a convenient, social work environment? And, you can help promote these vital campus resources working with Campus Life Marketing & Communications. Get paid to exercise! Cornell Fitness Centers (CFC) hires over 200 students each year as fitness instructors and monitors. All CFC staff get a free membership. Interested in advising others? Consider becoming a Resident Advisor in the residential community where you live or helping new students at the Tatkon Center for First-Year Students. The Community Work-Study Program, sponsored by Cornell's David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement, enables Cornell Federal Work-Study students to work for nonprofit organizations, schools, and municipalities in the Ithaca and Tompkins County region. Opportunities offered include working in the arts, after-school and classroom settings, sustainability and environmental programs, health services, legal services, information technology, public works and engineering departments, women's and children’s advocacy and animal care. The LGBT Resource Center hires paid interns each year. The positions vary, but each provide students interested in justice-related initiatives with practical applications of theory to move forward new initiatives at Cornell. The Asian & Asian American Center hires paid student staff to fill a variety of roles, including program planning, outreach, publicity and advocacy, and they serve as mentors to a vibrant group of volunteer interns. There are a number of student employment opportunities within the Campus Activities group. Roles may vary from program planning and interpersonal engagement to print marketing and social media. Looking ahead to life after Cornell? Cornell Career Services is here to help you identify your strengths and interests to help you meet post-graduation career and education goals. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.