Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support Access Fund Kessler Presidential Scholars Program Swipe Out Hunger LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Breadcrumb Home First Generation & Low Income Support Contact Us ADDRESS 626 Thurston Ave Room 305 Ithaca, NY 14853 CONTACT p: (607) 255-7708 nm467@cornell.edu First-Generation & Low-Income (FGLI) student support is intended to promote identity exploration, community, advocacy and empowerment for all students who identify with the first-generation and/or low-income student experience. Our work is grounded in a holistic, intersectional approach to foster an educational environment for FGLI students to succeed and thrive at Cornell.As a unit in the Dean of Students, Diversity and Inclusion portfolio, we aim to promote and centralize academic and social resources to remove institutional barriers to allow, first-generation and/or low-income students to benefit from an inclusive and transformational educational experience. Did you know....19.4% of the students in the incoming class of 2025 self-identify as first-generation college students. We consider you a first-generation college student if you come from a family in which neither of your parents or guardians has obtained a four-year college degree. We consider you a low-income student if you have little or no expected parent contribution as part of your financial aid package, you are a recipient of the Pell grant, or you believe that your prior academic and social experiences have been limited due to your socioeconomic status. First Forward Institution The Center for First-Generation Student Success launched in June 2017, with the mission of being the premier source of evidence-based practices, professional development, and knowledge creation for the higher education community to advance the success of first-generation students. In continuing this mission, the Center launched First-gen Forward, the nation’s first recognition program acknowledging higher education institutions for their commitment to first-generation student success. Cornell University is a member of the 2020-2021 First-gen Forward Cohort. Student Organizations The First Generation Student Union student-run organization works collectively to foster an inclusive community for first-generation, low-income (FGLI) students and are committed to making sure FGLI Cornellians find a true sense of belonging. Support the Access Fund Support the First-Generation and Low-Income Student Support Center, a new initiative out of the Dean of Students Office, by making a gift to the Access Fund. The Access Fund allows us the flexibility to better meet student needs and your gift will help in a multitude of ways. The Access Fund provides financial support to help low-income students cover emergency expenses, meet basic needs, and to participate in transformative experiences that would not be possible without financial assistance. Information for Funding & Accessing Transformative Experiences Cornell provides many opportunities for undergraduate students to earn funding to finance transformative experiences. Some funding opportunities within the resource below are specific to a certain program and college/school, while others are open to any student. This resource is meant to serve as a beginning to your search process. Learn more about information for funding Transformative Experiences. MSLE has also compiled a list of organizations, companies, and government agencies offering internships and other opportunities designed to provide access to transformative experiences. Some opportunities listed in this resource are broad, while others are discipline-specific. For example, the resource includes experiences such as STEM summer research programs; internships within fields such as human rights, public policy, business and finance; and information for funding study abroad programs. Learn more about these Transformative Experiences. In addition to these resources, please review Experience Cornell and the Career Services websites. *Note: You may come across an opportunity that is not listed within the resource, and in that case, please feel free to email msle@cornell.edu and it will be added. Both documents will be updated on a regular basis. Students are encouraged to review them frequently. Meet the Team News More News Flat fee for course materials aims to increase student success 5/26/22 CAMP program allows all Cornell undergraduates to access their required course materials for a flat fee of $225. Wu encourages grads to embrace their stories 5/26/22 Actress, producer and writer Constance Wu displayed plenty of wisdom in her keynote address at the 2022 Convocation. Taking a New Approach to Student Conduct at Cornell 5/10/22 The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards (OSCCS) launched in the summer of 2021 with the goal of supporting the holistic development. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.