Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories About SCL Awards & Funding David M. Einhorn Center Awards & Funding Janet McKinley '74 Family Grant Merrill Presidential Scholars Program Perkins Prize & SCL Awards Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Breadcrumb Home About SCL Awards & Funding Student and Campus Life recognizes outstanding students and programs through annual awards, scholarships, prizes, and grants. Cornell Career Services Let them help you explore both general fellowships and prestigious scholarships like the Rhodes, Marshall or Churchill Scholarships and many more. The Cornell Commitment The Cornell Tradition, Hunter R. Rawlings III Cornell Presidential Research Scholars, and Meinig Family Cornell National Scholars programs recognize, reward, and encourage further development of a select group of students who exemplify Cornell’s commitment to academic excellence, work and service, research and discovery, and leadership and learning. David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Explore ways to recognize the effort, creativity, and commitment of our students dedicated to promoting change in society. There is also funding for faculty and student-initiated community engagement projects. James A. Perkins Prize for Interracial & Intercultural Peace & Harmony/Student & Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion Awards The Perkins Prize recognizes the Cornell student, faulty, administrator, or program making the most significant contribution to furthering the ideal of university community while respecting the values of racial diversity. Merrill Presidential Scholars Program The Merrill Presidential Scholars Program has honored Cornell University's most outstanding graduating seniors, while also recognizing the teachers who have played a significant role in ensuring their success. Funding for Clubs & Organizations Bartels Co-Sponsorship —Thanks to funding provided by the Bartels family, undergraduate registered Cornell student organizations may apply for co-sponsorships to support student-led initiatives. The contact person for the project must be a registered Cornell student. The organization must also show they are requesting funds from other entities on campus. Organizations may apply every other year. To obtain an application and budget worksheet, please contact Sue Parker. Learn how to get your group funding through the Student Activities Funding Commission. If your organization is planning an event consistent with the mission of the Women’s Resource Center, consider the Women’s Resource Center Co-Sponsorship Fund. The CUTonight Funding Commission provides event-oriented funding to student organizations for innovative late-night programs. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.