Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Logo Left Content Logo Right Content 10,000+ Posts Scope Stanford University School of Medicine blog Primary Menu Menu Search for: Latest Popular Topics Biomedical research Diseases + conditions Education Global health Health policy Innovation Patient care Physician stories Wellness Search for: Will Americans ever think differently about guns? In a episode of the World Class podcast, Stanford medicine and law professor David Studdert discusses gun violence and attitudes toward gun safety. Author Daphne SashinPublished on June 7, 2019June 6, 2019 Cigarette smoking. Sun bathing. Driving without a seat belt. Owning a gun? Stanford medicine and law professor David Studdert thinks more public health evidence is needed before cultural attitudes around gun safety and violence will change. "There are questions in the world of gun safety we really don't have good answers to," Studdert said. "For example, what are the risks imposed on others in the household when a male -- it's usually a male -- chooses to buy a gun? If you think about smoking, one of the things that blew open tobacco control and tobacco policy was understanding the decision to smoke imposed risk and damage to others." Studdert appeared on a recent episode of World Class, the podcast from the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, to talk about gun safety and gun violence with host Michael McFaul, PhD, director of FSI. Nearly 40,000 people were killed in the United States in 2017, with 60 percent of those deaths due to suicide, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. An estimated 55 million Americans are gun owners, Harvard and Northeastern researchers found. While most American gun owners think guns make them safer, Studdert said research shows the opposite: The presence of a gun in the house actually increases the risk of homicide and suicide. "There's a mismatch between public attitudes and beliefs and motivations and what the evidence is telling us about firearm risk," he said. "That's what drew me to this area -- studying that paradox." As a public health researcher, Studdert takes an agnostic view of gun ownership, preferring to use the term "gun safety" over "gun control." "It's an instrument of danger, at some level, so we try to take precautions in society to try to prevent those hazards." Photo by Jp Valery Share this article Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Flipboard Email Category Health policy Public health Tags gun violence13 health policy257 News Home3944 Related posts Category: Emergency medicine Gun violence is a public health issue: One physician’s story An emergency room physician shares the story of treating a baby with a gunshot wound and how the experience shaped her views on gun violence. Author Laleh GharahbaghianPublished on December 12, 2018December 12, 2018 Category: Health policy Reducing gun violence discussed at Stanford Medicine symposium Firearm violence as a public health problem was the focus of a recent Stanford Medicine forum. Physicians should conduct more research on gun violence and advocate for gun safety with patients, presenters said. Author Erin DigitalePublished on March 20, 2018 Popular posts Category: Mental health Mental health hygiene can improve mood, decrease stress Creating a routine of mental health hygiene, including daily mindfulness practices, can decrease stress levels and improve mood. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on May 11, 2022May 10, 2022 Category: Public health Yuck! Don’t vape that Scientists have found that teens, young adults and adults are vaping substances that aren't meant to be inhaled. Author Erin DigitalePublished on May 25, 2022May 25, 2022 Footer Content Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Footer Bottom WidgetsArchives Footer Middle Widgets Report Accessibility Issues Footer Middle Widgets Terms of Use