Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Logo Left Content Logo Right Content 10,000+ Posts Scope Stanford University School of Medicine blog Primary Menu Menu Search for: Latest Popular Topics Biomedical research Diseases + conditions Education Global health Health policy Innovation Patient care Physician stories Wellness Search for: Disconnect: The gap between gun violence and research in numbers Author Becky BachPublished on January 4, 2017December 19, 2017 Gun violence is much discussed but little studied, largely due to federal decisions governing research funding. A new analysis highlights just how big the gap between the violence and our knowledge of it is. The answer? It's huge. Between 2004 and 2014, gun violence in the United States killed about the same number of people as liver disease, sepsis, and hypertension, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Yet, as compared with other leading causes of death, gun violence received only 1.6 percent of the amount of research funding and produced only 4.5 percent of the publications, according to a research letter in this week's JAMA from David Stark, MD, a Mount Sinai data scientist and physician, and Stanford's Nigam Shah, MBBS, PhD, assistant director of the Center for Biomedical Informatics Research. That's a gap of 37,159 articles that weren't completed during that time period. And that got me thinking: What might we know now if that research had been completed? Last summer, a Vox article tackled that very question, developing a list of seven jumping off questions to spur research. They are: How are guns used? Who are the victims of gun violence? What state laws work to reduce gun violence? Where do people acquire the guns used in violent crimes? Can the number of suicides by gun be reduced? How are media violence and actual violence related? I'd imagine you can think of a few research questions of your own. Finding funding to answer them, though, might be a tad bit tricky. Previously: Study: ER statistics could be used to help reduce gun violence, A Stanford resident explains why he asks every mental health patient about guns and Gun safety addressed by editorials in three JAMA journals Photo by Brett_Hondow Share this article Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Flipboard Email Category Health policy Tags health policy257 News Home3944 Stanford Medicine2251 Popular posts Category: Mental health Mental health hygiene can improve mood, decrease stress Creating a routine of mental health hygiene, including daily mindfulness practices, can decrease stress levels and improve mood. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on May 11, 2022May 10, 2022 Category: Public health Yuck! Don’t vape that Scientists have found that teens, young adults and adults are vaping substances that aren't meant to be inhaled. Author Erin DigitalePublished on May 25, 2022May 25, 2022 Footer Content Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Footer Bottom WidgetsArchives Footer Middle Widgets Report Accessibility Issues Footer Middle Widgets Terms of Use