Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Logo Left Content Logo Right Content 10,000+ Posts Scope Stanford University School of Medicine blog Primary Menu Menu Search for: Latest Popular Topics Biomedical research Diseases + conditions Education Global health Health policy Innovation Patient care Physician stories Wellness Search for: Stricter gun laws reduce child and adolescent gun deaths, Stanford study finds Across the country, states with more restrictive firearm laws have significantly fewer pediatric gun deaths than those with lax gun laws. Author Erin DigitalePublished on November 2, 2018November 2, 2018 Across the country, states with more restrictive firearm laws have significantly fewer pediatric gun deaths than those with lax gun laws, a new Stanford study has found. Laws that keep guns away from young people are especially strongly linked to lower rates of gun suicides in youth, according to the research. The findings are being presented in an upcoming scientific talk at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Pediatrics, which is taking place in Orlando, Florida. The research team, led by pediatric surgeon Stephanie Chao, MD, ranked the overall strictness of each state's gun laws, and also examined whether states had child access protection laws, those designed specifically to keep kids away from guns. Overall, California's gun laws are strictest, while Arizona's are weakest. Per capita, twice as many children die from gun injuries in states with the least restrictive gun laws as in those with the most restrictive laws. A HealthDay story published about the research explains: 'It seemed to have a dose-dependent effect. The more laws there are, the fewer deaths there are,' Chao said. Lax firearms laws, in particular, create an increased risk for suicide among children, the researchers found. Laws that limit children's access to guns — requirements for locking mechanisms on guns, keeping firearms in locked boxes or safes, and storing guns separate from ammunition — protected kids from suicide, the study found. 'States that didn't have any laws designed to specifically protect children had four times the pediatric suicide death rate as states that had laws that both required safe gun storage and said you can't provide a gun to a child,' Chao said. When I interviewed Chao for Stanford's press release about the research, she said she hoped the findings would encourage state-level legislators to consider enacting additional legislation to help protect children. "If you put more regulations on firearms, it does make a difference," Chao told me. "It does end up saving children’s lives." Photo by Christopher Slesarchik / Shutterstock Share this article Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Flipboard Email Category Health policy Pediatrics Tags gun violence13 health policy257 pediatrics424 Related posts Category: Health policy Reducing gun violence discussed at Stanford Medicine symposium Firearm violence as a public health problem was the focus of a recent Stanford Medicine forum. Physicians should conduct more research on gun violence and advocate for gun safety with patients, presenters said. Author Erin DigitalePublished on March 20, 2018 Category: Health policy Stanford gun violence research highlighted in national dialogue A group of researchers are trying to answer the question: Are you more or less likely to die if you own a firearm? Their work was recently featured in the Washington Post. Author Beth Duff-BrownPublished on March 26, 2018March 26, 2018 Popular posts Category: Mental health Mental health hygiene can improve mood, decrease stress Creating a routine of mental health hygiene, including daily mindfulness practices, can decrease stress levels and improve mood. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on May 11, 2022May 10, 2022 Category: Public health Yuck! Don’t vape that Scientists have found that teens, young adults and adults are vaping substances that aren't meant to be inhaled. Author Erin DigitalePublished on May 25, 2022May 25, 2022 Footer Content Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Footer Bottom WidgetsArchives Footer Middle Widgets Report Accessibility Issues Footer Middle Widgets Terms of Use