Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Logo Left Content Logo Right Content 10,000+ Posts Scope Stanford University School of Medicine blog Primary Menu Menu Search for: Latest Popular Topics Biomedical research Diseases + conditions Education Global health Health policy Innovation Patient care Physician stories Wellness Search for: In photos: Stanford community celebrates health and wellness Members of the Stanford Medicine community came together to celebrate and learn about health and wellness through discussions and activities. Author Hanae ArmitagePublished on May 17, 2022May 18, 2022 Dog-petters, popsicle eaters, nutrition enthusiasts, yogis and other health-oriented members of the Stanford Medicine community gathered on the lawn outside of Stanford University School of Medicine's Li Ka Shing building for the annual Health Matters event, which occurred in person for the first time since before the pandemic began. Health talks were held throughout the event, attracting crowds hoping to learn more about how they can take control of their own healthy living: Christopher Gardner, PhD, a professor of medicine, and other nutrition experts dove into all things diet, discussing the and pros and cons of popular fad diets, as well as how to think about eating for a sustainable future. Ron Levy, MD, a oncologist and cancer researcher, spoke about how researchers and doctors can harness the immune system to fight cancer. And Anna Lembke, MD, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences, broke down the biology of addiction and why and how people can become addicted to certain substances and behaviors. Outside the talks, more than 800 participants wandered from cooking demos to yoga classes, popsicle stands to health food trucks, and fluffy canine friends to blood-glucose monitoring stations. Below in photos, we captured highlights from the day. Alice Woo and granddaughter Charlie paint a flower petal for the Stanford COVID-19 Remembrance Project art installation on campus. Steve Fisch image Flower petals for the Stanford COVID-19 Remembrance Project art installation, themed Apart-Together, on campus. Steve Fisch image Arsheya Patro, 7, finds a new friend, golden retriever Haven, from the Pet Assisted Wellness at Stanford (PAWS) program. Hanae Armitage image Black Labrador, Teaser, enjoys getting attention from Wei Bai, a local medical oncologist. Hanae Armitage image Stanford Yogax program manager Heather Freeman teaches a yoga class. Steve Fisch image Sumit Bhansali, left, a Stanford alum, and Whitney Parkinson, a local dietician, relax into a stretch Freeman was leading. Steve Fisch image A poster in the Health Pavilion stands as a reminder to attendees: Self-care is crucial. Hanae Armitage image Stanford Hospital Chef Isaac Karachepone and dietician intern Elise Freche showcase their culinary skills in a cooking demonstration. Steve Fisch image Community member Lan Vu has her blood glucose level tested. Hanae Armitage image Christopher Gardner, PhD, speaks to attendees about nutrition and diet. Steve Fisch image Top image by Steve Fisch Share this article Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Flipboard Email Category Public health Tags News Home3944 nutrition95 wellness48 Related posts Category: Mental health Mental health hygiene can improve mood, decrease stress Creating a routine of mental health hygiene, including daily mindfulness practices, can decrease stress levels and improve mood. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on May 11, 2022May 10, 2022 Category: Nutrition Quick and easy food substitutions for a heart-healthy diet Stanford dietitian recommends making some simple food substitutions that cut back on fats and carbohydrates to improve heart health. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on February 16, 2022February 16, 2022 Popular posts Category: Mental health Mental health hygiene can improve mood, decrease stress Creating a routine of mental health hygiene, including daily mindfulness practices, can decrease stress levels and improve mood. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on May 11, 2022May 10, 2022 Category: Public health Yuck! Don’t vape that Scientists have found that teens, young adults and adults are vaping substances that aren't meant to be inhaled. Author Erin DigitalePublished on May 25, 2022May 25, 2022 Footer Content Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Footer Bottom WidgetsArchives Footer Middle Widgets Report Accessibility Issues Footer Middle Widgets Terms of Use