Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Logo Left Content Logo Right Content 10,000+ Posts Scope Stanford University School of Medicine blog Primary Menu Menu Search for: Latest Popular Topics Biomedical research Diseases + conditions Education Global health Health policy Innovation Patient care Physician stories Wellness Search for: Advice on how to cope with the threat of school shootings Stanford psychiatry professor for gives advice on how to cope with the new normal of school lockdown and active-shooter drills. Author Jennifer HuberPublished on April 20, 2018April 19, 2018 Like older adults who grew up with the threat of nuclear bombs during the Cold War, children are now growing up with mass shootings — the new normal. Since the Columbine massacre in 1999, kids began participating in school lockdown and active-shooter drills. Some also face metal detectors, bulletproof bunkers and other security measures in their schools. Classrooms no longer seem like a safe place and this stress may be impacting children’s long-term health and development. Victor Carrion, MD, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford, studies the interplay between brain development and stress vulnerability. In a recent Stanford Magazine article, he offers advice on how families can cope with the stress of school safety: Parents should proactively talk with their child about difficult topics in a developmentally sensitive way. If parents are worried about their child’s stress level, they should look for a change in function. Very young children can become clingier. Older kids often convert depression or anxiety into physical symptoms like a stomach ache or headache. And adolescents frequently withdraw. School drills should include three steps: a school orientation about the drill, the actual drill practice, and a follow-up discussion to help children process how they felt during the exercise. School administrators, teachers, parents, police and the community need to work together to create an environment where the child feels safe, secure and protected. Image by Clker-Free-Vector-Images Share this article Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Flipboard Email Category Mental health Pediatrics Tags News Home3944 parenting292 pediatrics424 Related posts Category: Public health Protecting our patients: Intervening in the gun debate Is preventing gun violence really the work of clinicians? Yes, argues first-year Stanford medical student Orly Farber. Author Orly Nadell FarberPublished on March 7, 2018March 5, 2018 Category: Public health Physicians urged to talk to their patients about guns Author Jennifer HuberPublished on October 18, 2017January 18, 2018 Popular posts Category: Mental health Mental health hygiene can improve mood, decrease stress Creating a routine of mental health hygiene, including daily mindfulness practices, can decrease stress levels and improve mood. Author Hadley LeggettPublished on May 11, 2022May 10, 2022 Category: Public health Yuck! Don’t vape that Scientists have found that teens, young adults and adults are vaping substances that aren't meant to be inhaled. Author Erin DigitalePublished on May 25, 2022May 25, 2022 Footer Content Social Links Menu About Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram FlipBoard Footer Bottom WidgetsArchives Footer Middle Widgets Report Accessibility Issues Footer Middle Widgets Terms of Use