Skip to content School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Main Menu About Us What is SCP? Faculty Hiring Chair’s Messages Connect with Us Academics Graduate Programs Professional Education SCP Home Units Research The Industry Ecosystem People Faculty Operations Staff News and Events The SCP Blog School Calendar Search Search for: Search Welcome to the Future of Cybersecurity and Privacy Thank You from Interim Chair Rich DeMillo Dear Members of the SCP Community and Friends, On Wednesday, June 1, after a distinguished career in academia and industry, Professor Michael Bailey becomes the founding chair of the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy (SCP). It is hard to think of a better choice. Besides his deep knowledge of the field, he is steeped in the aspirations and culture of excellence. That’s an important quality at a place like Georgia Tech, which does not take lightly the job of creating a new academic unit, especially in the glare of the national spotlight that accompanies being a first mover. Continue Reading Get to Know The School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Learn More About Who We Are Earn Your Graduate Degree With Us Check Out What’s New On Our Blog Our First Year A Year of Cybersecurity and Privacy at Georgia Tech SCP By the Numbers Ranked #2 in undergraduate cybersecurity education by U.S. News & World Report. 12 cybersecurity labs and centers 40 researchers in four colleges plus the Georgia Tech Research Institute. 3 degree programs, 1 certificate program, 11 professional courses, and 123 regular course offerings in cybersecurity. Over 800 students enrolled in the Master of Science in Cybersecurity program More than1,100 students enrolled in the Master of Science in Cybersecurity ⎼ Online program 70 Ph.D. students from across campus working alongside SCP faculty to conduct research Tweets by GaTechCyber Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology