Skip to Content Student Care Services Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities Home About FAQ Services Student of Concern Resources Contact Downtown Campus Home Phone Mon-Fri: 8am - 5pm Phone 407-823-5607 Fax 407-823-4544 Email caremanager@ucf.edu Location Ferrell Commons, Room 196  Facebook Make an Appointment Mental Health/Well-being Class Absence Notice Financial Instability Resources Interpersonal Violence Report a Student of Concern Care Coordination Student Care Services provides one-on-one support, including guidance, resources, and referrals when UCF students are experiencing significant difficulties related to mental health, physical health, personal and family emergencies, financial issues or other areas of concern. Student Care Services is not crisis and emergency support. Always call 911 in a life-threatening emergency. We are committed to assisting you in successfully navigating the UCF campus. Care coordinators provide resources and information to help you navigate university systems and policies while prioritizing your well-being and academic success. Our team assists you in making connections to the abundance of resources available to you within the UCF community. We are here to help you connect with faculty, staff and other offices that can collaborate with you to ensure your needs are met. Throughout this process, we aspire to help you develop self-advocacy skills that prepare you for involvement in the larger community and life beyond college. Types of referrals care coordinators assist with include, but are not limited to: Problems in daily functioning (e.g., missing class, social isolation, change in behavior, marked decline in academic performance) Mental health Physical health/medical concern Loss of family members or friends Adjustment concerns (e.g., social issues, relationship or family concerns) Housing and/or food insecurity Other concerns about well-being (e.g., financial challenges, interpersonal conflicts, etc.) Student Care Services is not counseling, therapy or academic advising. Care coordinators have the opportunity to develop helping relationships with you while coaching you toward appropriate self-care and self-advocacy. If a student is in distress and needs to speak with a counselor on duty, call UCF Counseling and Psychological Services 24/7 at 407-823-2811. The Student Care Services Team does not influence academic decisions of faculty or academic units. Rather, we connect students to academic resources and refer them to relevant academic policies. Student Care Services can provide a class absence notification if a student is unable to contact their professors directly. Care coordinators are mandatory reporters: If a care coordinator becomes aware of an instance of discrimination or retaliation, they must report to UCF’s Office of Institutional Equity & Title IX. Meet with the Student Care Services Team If you are a UCF student who would like assistance with any of the above or similar challenges, please call 407-823-5607 Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm or email caremanager@ucf.edu. Care Referral If you know of a student who may be in distress or whose actions or circumstances are worrisome but does not present an immediate danger, you may refer them to the Student Care Services Team. Immediate dangers include: Potentially harmful to self Potentially harmful to others Always call 911 for potential harmful situations. Meet the Student Care Services Team staff Additional resources News & Announcements No news articles at this time. More News Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Application Deadlin More Events Page Navigation Home About FAQ Services Student of Concern Resources Contact Downtown Campus Contact Us Student Care Services Phone 407-823-5607 Email caremanager@ucf.edu Location Ferrell Commons, Room 196 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida