The Student Disability Resource Center (SDRC) campus offices are operating regular business hours, Monday through Friday, from 8:00am - 5:00pm. This includes regular in-person staff coverage. Need an appointment with a staff member? The good news is you can meet with staff to happen via Zoom or in-person. To schedule an appointment call 951-827-3861 or submit a request through the Appointment Request Form. Plan to go to the SDRC offices in the Student Services Building? Please read this important information before you go! Student Affairs departments are open. Please check the Student Affairs homepage for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People QuickLinks Giving Events R'Ability Search UC Riverside Student Disability Resource Center The SDRC is Here for You Search Home Programming Events Contact Us R'Ability For Students Students with Disabilities Covid-19 Response Accessing Approved Accommodations Alt Media (E-text) SDRC Testing Center Access Technology Access/Assistive Technology CZUR Scanning Station Livescribe Echo Smartpen Notability (iOS) Otter Voice Notes CaptiVoice Read&Write Speechify SensusAccess Voiceover (iOS) Assistive Animals For Note Takers Resources & Handbooks Resources & Handbooks Expectations: How College Differs Resolve a Grievance Studying/Traveling Abroad Apply for Accommodations FAQ Remote Attendance Apply for Accommodations Current UCR Students Incoming UCR Students Graduate and Professional Students Information for Families Documentation Guidelines For Faculty & Staff Faculty/Instructors Blackboard Accommodations Canvas Accommodations ASL Interpreters Captioning Cart Services & Zoom Zoom Accessibility Giving UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People QuickLinks Giving Events R'Ability UC Riverside - Audience Menu A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People QuickLinks Giving Events R'Ability Previous Next Welcome to the Student Disability Resource Center (SDRC) For more than 50 years, the Student Disability Resource Center (SDRC) has been dedicated to the mission of promoting an inclusive educational experience for UC Riverside students through the advocacy of equal access, disability and ability awareness, and empowerment. In the 1960s, UCR became one of the first universities in the nation to make its campus wheelchair accessible and offer services for all students with disabilities. Today, the SDRC's highly qualified team provides assistance to a wide range of undergraduate, graduate, and professional students with permanent and temporary disabilities. UCR works to ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to educational programs and can fully participate in all aspects of campus life. SDRC is the unit designated to receive requests for accommodations, approve services, and coordinate support for students with disabilities to ensure access to the university's educational programs. A personal consultation will help us individually tailor a plan to meet your disability-related needs, based on current functional limitations and any requirements of specific classes. Approval of accommodations is based on disability documentation and meeting with a disability specialist. To request disability-related accommodations, you must register with SDRC. For detailed information, please visit the Apply for Accommodations webpage. For information on accommodations for UCR employees, please visit the Disability Management Resources webpage from UCR Human Resources. Request an Appointment Disability services are free, voluntary, private, and not part of your transcript. Register to Vote See Events Calendar Follow SDRC on social media @UCRSDRC Donate to support SDRC Programing and Scholarships The SDRC invites you to register to vote! FAQ for Students Seeking Remote Attendance as a Disability Accommodation What is the current Instructional plan? Information about current instruction is located on the Safe Return to Campus website. We will continue to monitor the pandemic closely and will follow public health guidance issued by federal and state health officials and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”). Will courses be taught remotely? No. With limited exceptions, the default instructional mode will be in-person. A limited number of key courses in which the department or program has designated as “Online” (O) - course is held remotely with no face-to-face meetings, or “In-Person” (I) – course may have one or more face-to-face meeting, on the Schedule of Classes. Most courses will meet primarily in person, and physical attendance on campus is expected. Because only a fraction of courses will be taught remotely, students should anticipate that they will not be able to take a full course load remotely and recognize that remote course options will be limited. Will I be required to attend my classes in person? Yes. When courses are offered in-person, students are generally expected to attend those courses in person. I have a medical condition that puts me at a higher risk of serious illness from COVID-19. How do I request a COVID-19-related accommodation? Requests for a COVID-19-related disability accommodation should be submitted using the Student Disability Resource Center’s (SDRC) existing process for student accommodations. SDRC professional staff will work directly with each student to assess their individual needs and develop an appropriate accommodation plan. I have a medical condition that puts me at a higher risk of serious illness from COVID-19. Can I get a full load of remote courses as a reasonable accommodation? The design of courses conducted in-person is substantially different from the design of courses with remote-only options, including key activities such as in-class group work, hands-on labs, or in-class discussions. Because remote attendance would fundamentally alter an essential component of the vast majority of the University’s courses, a full load of remote courses will not be a reasonable accommodation for most students. What is the Student Disability Resources Center’s specific process for determining whether attending any classes remotely is a reasonable accommodation? The SDRC will work with the student, their treating medical professional, and relevant faculty and staff via an interactive process. This will involve gathering detailed information on the student’s medical condition and the design and requirements of the course(s) the student is requesting to attend remotely. A number of accommodations and adjustments will be explored, if supported by appropriate medical documentation, to develop the best approach for the student. I am an international student. Can I take classes remotely? International students that are able to travel to the United States are expected to attend courses in person. International students who may not be able to attend in-person because of travel restrictions related to COVID-19 should consult with their academic advisor and the Office of International Affairs to evaluate their options. It is more cost effective for me to live away from Riverside. Can I take classes remotely? UC Riverside is designed to be an in-person learning experience, with the exception of a few specific on-line degree programs. Students are expected to attend courses in person. Students who are concerned they may not be able to attend in-person classes because of financial limitations should consult with their academic advisor, Financial Aid, Basic Needs, and/or Campus Housing to evaluate their options. There are also resources for finding off-campus housing. Will I need to be vaccinated for COVID-19 before returning to campus? Consistent with scientific evidence on the importance of vaccine adoption to control spread of the virus, to the extent permissible by law, the University of California will require all enrolled students to be vaccinated for COVID-19, effective Fall 2021 quarter. This policy will apply to all undergraduate and graduate students in U.S.-based programs. UCR will consider medical or religious exemptions to the vaccine requirement for students. The latest COVID-19 Vaccines message to campus are on the Campus Return website. What if I do not feel safe returning to campus? The University is following guidance provided by the CDC and other authorities and putting best practices into place to ensure a safe resumption of in-person instruction. However, students must decide what is right for them based on their circumstances, preferences, goals, and personal judgments of risk. We encourage all students to speak with their academic advisor before making this decision. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Student Disability Resource Center 1228 Student Services Building Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3861 fax: (951) 827-4218 email: sdrc@ucr.edu Find Us Follow US: Facebook Twitter Instagram Related Links Admissions Financial Aid Housing Services Student Affairs Case Management Student Health Services Veterans Services Disclaimer This information is accurate and reliable at the time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact the Student Disability Resource Center for the most up-to-date information. Campus Security and Fire Safety Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel