Skip to main content Search Search Toggle Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Student Disability Services Close Main Menu Main navigation Get Started Accommodations & Services Resources About Auxiliary Menu Forms Faculty Portal Log in to SDS Online Services Welcome Student Disability Services works in partnership with Cornell faculty, staff, and students to ensure that all aspects of student life are accessible, equitable, and inclusive of individuals with disabilities. We recognize the historical and systemic disparities that exist within our healthcare systems and society at large. These disparities can often have adverse and unintended consequences that further marginalize populations. We recognize these disparities exist among our student population, and can directly affect a student’s ability to provide documentation of a disability. We are committed to working with every student to find appropriate and creative ways of ensuring access in every aspect of their Cornell experience. Read our guiding principles. SDS Online Services Current Student Log-In Faculty Portal I would like to... Register for accommodations Request letters Request additional accommodations Report a physical access barrier Request records or proof of accommodations Request accessible course materials Welcome New Students! Please follow the process to register with our office if you will need disability accommodations or services during your study at Cornell. We look forward to working with you! Connect with Us Virtually Although we cannot meet you in our physical office, we are still available to assist you! Here is how you can contact us: Call us! 607-254-4545 Email sds_cu@cornell.edu We will respond during our business hours. Got questions? See our answers to frequently asked questions. Contact Us Student Disability Services Cornell Health, Level 5 110 Ho Plaza Ithaca, NY 14853-3102 Phone: 607-254-4545 Fax: 607-255-1562 Email: sds_cu@cornell.edu Schedule a Meeting Follow us on Facebook! Hours Monday: 8:30am - 5:00pm Tuesday: 8:30am - 5:00pm Wednesday: 10:00am - 5:00pm Thursday: 8:30am - 5:00pm Friday: 8:30am - 5:00pm We Stand Against Hate Student Disability Services condemns all discrimination, racism, and violence against students, colleagues, and community members near and far. Hate has no place at Cornell. Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need this website’s materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.