Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Oregon Sea Grant » Hatfield Visitor Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Visit Us Frequently Asked Questions Exhibits OctoCam OctoFAQ Crustaceans Erosion Tank Regional Class Research Vessel Science for Sustainable Fisheries The Sandbox Tidepool Touch Tanks Tsunami Wave Tank Exhibit Proposal Form Exploring Our Coast Marine Science Q&A Marine Education Lab and Field Experiences Build a Habitat Animal Adaptations Speedy Science Squid Dissection Rocky Intertidal Ecology Estuary Investigations Plankton Lab ROV Design Challenge Homeschool Career Day Day Camps Day Camp FAQs Educator Resources Publications Volunteer Keep Learning Become a Volunteer Our People Community Members Teachers Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Visit Us Frequently Asked Questions Exhibits OctoCam OctoFAQ Crustaceans Erosion Tank Regional Class Research Vessel Science for Sustainable Fisheries The Sandbox Tidepool Touch Tanks Tsunami Wave Tank Exhibit Proposal Form Exploring Our Coast Marine Science Q&A Marine Education Lab and Field Experiences Build a Habitat Animal Adaptations Speedy Science Squid Dissection Rocky Intertidal Ecology Estuary Investigations Plankton Lab ROV Design Challenge Homeschool Career Day Day Camps Day Camp FAQs Educator Resources Publications Volunteer Keep Learning Become a Volunteer Our People Make a Gift Marine Education Lab & Field Experiences Homeschool Career Day Summer Day Camp COVID-19 Update: (updated Jan. 2022) Great news - We are now accepting registrations for in-person lab and field experiences occurring in Winter and Spring 2022! Teachers and group leaders can review our current class offerings and logistics and submit a trip request on our lab and field experiences website. We are also planning to host our summer day camps in person this summer - registration and logistics are available on our day camps website. Please note that our plan to host in-person programming is subject to change at any time pending updated safety procedures and guidelines associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. We thank you for your continued patience and understanding and look forward to serving you and your group during your next trip to the coast! Mask update effective March 12, 2022: Masks are welcome but no longer required at OSU. Those at higher risk should continue to wear masks. Please note these conditions are subject to change at any time. Contact the Marine Education Coordinator with any questions or concerns via email or phone (541-867-0233). Our Goal Oregon Sea Grant's education program is dedicated to increasing marine science literacy in the classroom and in daily life, for people of all ages and backgrounds. As part of that effort, we provide formal classes and labs for students of all ages, professional development support for science teachers, and a broad range of formal and informal learning opportunities to thousands of adults and children who each year who come to the Hatfield Marine Science Center Visitor Center which is operated by Oregon Sea Grant. All programs are built around marine science, tied to state and national STEM standards, and offer opportunities for learning, exploration, and fun. There are many ways for you, your group, or your family to learn about marine science at Hatfield. Explore our webpage to see the best options for you! Program Impact "We brought our 7th graders to your facility and students were able to collect marine samples to look at under the microscope. They are still talking about this experience. Can't wait to bring more 7th graders back to your facility." ~7th-grade teacher "The programs are great because they are hands-on, interactive, and provide access to things we could never get in the classroom" ~2nd-grade teacher Lab and Field Experiences Homeschool Career Day Day Camps Educator Resources Publications ‹ Marine Science Q&A up Lab and Field Experiences › Lab and Field Experiences Homeschool Career Day Day Camps Educator Resources Publications Contact Info Oregon Sea Grant Oregon State University 1600 SW Western Blvd Suite 350 Corvallis OR 97333 Corvallis Office: 541-737-2714 Visitor Center: 541-867-0100, #2 E-mail Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram