Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Oregon Sea Grant » Hatfield Visitor Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Visit Us Frequently Asked Questions Exhibits OctoCam OctoFAQ Crustaceans Erosion Tank Regional Class Research Vessel Science for Sustainable Fisheries The Sandbox Tidepool Touch Tanks Tsunami Wave Tank Exhibit Proposal Form Exploring Our Coast Marine Science Q&A Marine Education Lab and Field Experiences Build a Habitat Animal Adaptations Speedy Science Squid Dissection Rocky Intertidal Ecology Estuary Investigations Plankton Lab ROV Design Challenge Homeschool Career Day Day Camps Day Camp FAQs Educator Resources Publications Volunteer Keep Learning Become a Volunteer Our People Community Members Teachers Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Visit Us Frequently Asked Questions Exhibits OctoCam OctoFAQ Crustaceans Erosion Tank Regional Class Research Vessel Science for Sustainable Fisheries The Sandbox Tidepool Touch Tanks Tsunami Wave Tank Exhibit Proposal Form Exploring Our Coast Marine Science Q&A Marine Education Lab and Field Experiences Build a Habitat Animal Adaptations Speedy Science Squid Dissection Rocky Intertidal Ecology Estuary Investigations Plankton Lab ROV Design Challenge Homeschool Career Day Day Camps Day Camp FAQs Educator Resources Publications Volunteer Keep Learning Become a Volunteer Our People Make a Gift Welcome to the Hatfield Visitor Center! What to expect when visiting vc_rez_qr_code.jpg Currently, we require visitors to make a reservation which is good for an hour-long visit. The QR code (left) also goes directly to reservations. Reservations are required: Reservations must be made online before your visit. Days/Hours: Thursday - Monday, 10 AM - 4 PM; closed Tuesday - Wednesday Fee: $3 for visitors ages 5 and up; payment is online-only, Visa or MasterCard accepted. Time: Visits are 1 hour long. Face coverings: Per OSU guidelines masks are welcomed but no longer required. Registration Hours and Location Admission Facebook Snap Shots from the VISITOR CENTER rose_volunteer_at_vc.jpg Science a la Carte Rolls into VC Rose, a VC volunteer, is piloting a new interpretive science project for our visitors - Science a la Carte. Informal, hands-on presentations are made from a cart rolled out for visitors and then put away when it is not in use. The first topic for Science a la Carte is sea otters. Our volunteer docents discuss otters and kelp forest health, the current state of otters in Oregon, and compare sea and river otter characteristics. octopus NEWS We are delighted to announce that our resident Giant Pacific Octopus is back in the main tank of the Visitor Center. She’s a curious and inquisitive gal, and we hope you can visit us and see what she’s up to. If you are curious about these eight-armed wonders, check out this frequently asked questions page. Below is a video of a resident octopus playing with its toys. octopus_with_toys.jpg Why did the octopus cross the reef? To get to the other tide! rcrv_family_narrow_16x9.jpg Regional Class Research Vessel This interactive simulator let's you experience what it feels like to be at the helm of a large research vessel and steer it through Yaquina Bay. crab_at_vc_exhibit_16x9.jpg Oregon Coast Crustaceans This exhibit showcases crustaceans found along the Oregon coast. By displaying these animals in smaller interconnected tanks, it is possible to keep more than one species in harmony. More Exhibits vc_sand_table_16x9.jpg Augmented Reality Sandbox Visitors of all ages are welcome to play in this sandbox. At this exhibit, you move the sand in the sandbox and watch how the contour lines, projected on the sand, change. What is this creature? moonglow_anemones2.png It's a Moonglow AnEMONE moonglow_anemones1.png Moonglow anemones live in intertidal and shallow subtidal zones throughout the Pacific Northwest. They are often found partially or fully buried in the sand with their body column stretched down into the sand to find a solid place to attach themselves. They can also be found in holes in rocks carved out by boring clams or urchins. Unlike their more common cousins green anemones, moonglows are often found singly or in small groups. While they look delicate, any animal that lives in the intertidal zone has to be hardy to survive in the ever-changing conditions. You can see these incredible animals in their natural habitat at local beaches like Seal Rock State Park, and in the Visitor Center, currently residing with the Northern Kelp Crab in the Crustacean exhibit! This text is based on an article by Emily Bjornsgard for our March volunteer newsletter (pdf). Upcoming Events Do you have a group interested in exploring the Visitor Center? You can make a reservation for your group here. Hours Open: 10 AM - 4 PM Thursday - Monday Reservations Required Closed: Tuesday - Wednesday Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years Day Location Hatfield Marine Science Center Visitor Center 2030 SE Marine Science Drive Newport, OR 97365-5229 Phone: 541-867-0100; Option 2 Email Map and Driving Directions Click on "More Options" to get directions from your location. About Us Exhibits Exploring Our Coast Marine Education Volunteer Our People About Us › Contact Info Oregon Sea Grant Oregon State University 1600 SW Western Blvd Suite 350 Corvallis OR 97333 Corvallis Office: 541-737-2714 Visitor Center: 541-867-0100, #2 E-mail Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram