Skip to Main Content Experience Dartmouth - Apply Here! Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help Search Postings (200) View all open Postings below, or enter search criteria to narrow your search. Keywords Posted Within Any time period Last Day Last Week Last Month Position Number Employment Category No Selection Regular Full Time Regular Part Time Regular Full Time w/end date Regular Part time w/end date Temporary Full Time Temporary Part time Union Posting? No Selection SEIU IATSE Not a Union Position Division No Selection A&S ADVAD CSV CSVC DDSAX F&A FOM GEISEL HUMR LIB OOCOM PRES PROV SVPAO THAY TUCK VPAR VPDEV VPSA Remote Work Eligibility: No Selection Remote eligible Hybrid Onsite only Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next View Results (200) Position Number Employment Category Department Posted Date Assistant Vice President for Finance and Treasury Management ADMN – Administration, FIN/ACCT – Finance and Accounting 1010989 Regular Full Time Finance and Administration 05/31/2022 Leads, directs and manages the planning, oversight, compliance, internal control, and analysis functions central to Dartmouth’s policies and procedures, for two departments within F&A: Treasury and Procurement Services.Treasury includes the management of debt, working capital, cash and short-term investments, and capital funding programs and reserves. Procurement Services is responsible for... View Details Bookmark Associate Director of Athletics Finance for Ticketing and Sales ATHL – Athletics 0063900 Regular Full Time Athletics 05/24/2022 Oversees the Sales office and manages the operations of sales activities within the athletics department. Develops and Implements strategies to meet the department’s sales needs. Acts as administrator of the sales software and database (AudienceView), point of sales devices, and financial reconciliation of all sales. Hires and oversees the ticket sales staff and maintains the annual budget. Con... View Details Bookmark Research Coordinator RSCH – Research 1126135 Regular Full Time Center for Technology and Behavioral Health 05/31/2022 The Research Coordinator (RC) will be part of a dynamic, collaborative team at the Northeast Node of the National Drug Abuse Treatment Clinical Trials Network, housed at the Center for Technology and Behavioral Health (CTBH) at the Geisel School of Medicine. The RC will support the Node administratively and play a key role in a broad array of research projects, including those that examine the ... View Details Bookmark Laboratory Technician III RSCH – Research 1127264 Regular Full Time Biochemistry 05/31/2022 To be a member of a dynamic basic biomedical research lab (6-7 lab members), conducting research projects addressing a range of topics concerning the mammalian actin cytoskeleton, mitochondrial dynamics, and cell motility. Experimental systems employed could include cell-free biochemistry, mammalian cell culture, and microscopy (live- and fixed-cell). In addition, to help with the day-to-day ru... View Details Bookmark Industrial Hygienist ADMN – Administration, RSCH – Research, TECH – Technical 1128119 Regular Full Time EHS 05/31/2022 Under general oversight of the Research and Occupational Health Associate Director, this position oversees the Dartmouth-wide comprehensive Occupational Health Programs to ensure the minimization of risk related to injury and non-compliance with regulations. Program management is accomplished through, planning, implementation, providing regulatory guidance and oversight, technical assistance, c... View Details Bookmark Research and Chemical Hygiene Officer ADMN – Administration, RSCH – Research, TECH – Technical 1128118 Regular Full Time EHS 05/31/2022 Direct and oversee the comprehensive Chemical Hygiene Safety Program that exists to ensure the safety of all Dartmouth employees and students, as well as the public, from sources of chemicals and hazardous wastes. The Chemical Hygiene Officer (CHO) also act as a representative for the broader Dartmouth Research and Laboratory Safety Programs by participating in emergency response actions and mu... View Details Bookmark Operations Assistant Finance FIN/ACCT – Finance and Accounting 1125433 Regular Full Time NCCC 05/31/2022 To manage the daily financial and related administrative activities to facilitate an efficient infrastructure supporting the department’s multidisciplinary goals. The role will focus on keeping and updating financial records, computingservice center bills and charges, customer service to staff, faculty, students and external customers, and process financial transactions (orders, invoices, other... View Details Bookmark Program Manager, Revers Center For Energy, Sustainability And Innovation ADMN – Administration 1128133 Regular Full Time Tuck Center for Energy 05/28/2022 Manages and delivers programs, events, and marketing activities for the Tuck Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation according to Tuck’s mission, strategy, and institutional priorities. View Details Bookmark Assistant Planner ADMN – Administration, TECH – Technical 1128131 Regular Full Time Campus Planning Design & Construction 05/25/2022 Reporting to the Director of Campus Planning, the Assistant Planner will be part of a team who guides the future physical development of Dartmouth. The Planner is responsible for supporting the full range of campus planning functions with an emphasis on planning analyses and space planning; capital projects, including feasibility assessment, programming and preliminary design; and planning that... View Details Bookmark Research Assistant III RSCH – Research 1128135 Regular Full Time The Dartmouth Institute 05/25/2022 To support The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice in the development of national, state and regional health policy, with a particular focus on one or more of the following: evaluating health care; initiatives to engage, enable and empower patients; and/or innovative models of intervention, improvement and implementation. Works under guidance of TDI faculty and senior st... View Details Bookmark Shift Supervisor TECH – Technical 0735500 Regular Full Time Safety & Security 05/19/2022 To Serve as a Shift Supervisor, providing shift coverage and mangement of shift operations to include safety patrol, dispatching and night security for the College. View Details Bookmark Program Coordinator - Undergraduate Advising & Research ADMS – Administrative Support 1128106 Regular Full Time Undergraduate Advising and Research 05/23/2022 To provide programmatic support for Fellowship Advising and the Scholars programs in the office of Undergraduate Advising & Research (UGAR). View Details Bookmark Operations Assistant, Administrative ADMS – Administrative Support 1128128 Regular Full Time The Dartmouth Institute 05/23/2022 To manage the daily administrative activities to facilitate an efficient administrative infrastructure supporting the department’s multi-disciplinary academic and research goals. View Details Bookmark Senior Administrative Assistant ADMS – Administrative Support 1127917 Regular Full Time The Dartmouth Institute 05/23/2022 The Senior Administrative Assistant serves as the primary point of contact for access to the Director of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice and will provide executive support in a one-on-one working relationship managing a complex dynamic calendar and numerous commitments while proactively ensuring the Director’s time is allocated efficiently across the director’s... View Details Bookmark Finance Center Specialist ADMS – Administrative Support, FIN/ACCT – Finance and Accounting 1010907 Regular Full Time Arts & Sciences Finance Center 05/19/2022 The Financial Center Specialist, in collaboration with the Financial Center team, uses a proactive/collaborative approach, technical expertise, automated tools and various aspects of the financial management system to provide outstanding customer service to the Dartmouth community with emphasis on timeliness and accuracy. The Financial Center Specialist analyzes and processes transactional requ... View Details Bookmark Language Teaching Fellow STUDNTSVCS – Student Services, ADMS – Administrative Support 1127611 Regular Full Time Rassias Center 04/11/2022 The Teaching Fellow is a Dartmouth College employee immersed at New England Innovation Academy (NEIA) with school roles and responsibilities the same as NEIA faculty members. The Teaching Fellow will teach language programs for day and boarding students enrolled at NEIA.This is an academic year position from mid-August through June,located at the New England Innovation Academy in Marlborough, M... View Details Bookmark Laboratory Technician I RSCH – Research, TECH – Technical 1126928 Regular Part Time Biological Sciences 05/22/2022 To provide laboratory support for research that utilizes fruit flies to study the regulation of chromosome segregation during meiosis. View Details Bookmark Food Service Associate A HOSP – Food Services and Hospitality, UNIO – Union 0408600 Regular Full Time Dartmouth Dining Services 05/22/2022 Under close supervision, sets up and arranges serving areas and dining room in College dining facilities. Serves food from service stations and steamtables to servery guests. Stores leftover food items and cleans up kitchen utensils and equipment and the work and dining room areas at the completion of the shift. Assists with daily catering orders as needed. Serves as cashier/greeter as assigned. View Details Bookmark Media Relations Strategist COMM – Communications (Print & Media) 1128094 Regular Full Time Office of Communications 05/18/2022 The media relations strategist supports the communication goals of Dartmouth by managing, protecting, and elevating the institutional brand. Reporting to the asocciate vice president for communications, the incumbent acts as a strategic partner to stakeholders across campus and develops proactive communications strategies to manage the media relations aspects of politically sensitive, highly vi... View Details Bookmark Manager, Power Management Integration Center RSCH – Research 1126109 Regular Part Time Thayer School 05/16/2022 The Manager, Power Management Integration Center (PMIC) manages the operations of the PMIC, including coordinating research projects and project proposals, organizing technical meetings, leading Center communications, and serving as a central contact point. View Details Bookmark Career Services Manager ADMN – Administration, STUDNTSVCS – Student Services 1010667 Regular Full Time The Dartmouth Institute 05/20/2022 Lead the career services function for students and alumni for the graduate programs at the Geisel School of Medicine. Works closely with individual program leadership so that all of these activities align to promote and ensure the success of all students and alumni within each program. The Career Services Manager will exemplify a commitment to excellence, to diversity, and to serving the needs ... View Details Bookmark Assistant Coach - Womens Basketball ATHL – Athletics 0029001 Regular Full Time M&W Intercollegiate 05/19/2022 To participate as part of a decision making team (coaching staff) under the direction of the head coach in planning, coaching, recruiting, administering, and promoting the basketball program within NCAA, Ivy League, and institutional standards. The Assistant Coach plays a critical role in achieving the overall goals of the basketball program by providing important recommendations, suggestions a... View Details Bookmark Research Software Engineer II IT – Information Technology 1128122 Regular Full Time Rsch Comp 05/19/2022 The Research Software Engineer II (RSEII) will develop and support software and data science serving the entire research community. Collaborating with PIs, researchers and students throughout the entire research project life-cycle, from grant-writing, to planning, execution, publication and dissemination. The RSEII will produce scientific and research related code that runs on Dartmouth HPC env... View Details Bookmark Laboratory Technician III TECH – Technical 1128108 Regular Full Time Molecular and Systems Biology 05/19/2022 To help manage the lab and conduct a variety of experiments in support of research studies on brain development and behavior using the zebrafish model. The position will involve general lab duties, preparing constructs, and recovering and applying transgenic tools. View Details Bookmark 2nd College Grant Caretaker STUDNTSVCS – Student Services 0127500 Regular Full Time Outdoor Programs 04/16/2022 The Second College Grant Caretaker advances the educational mission of the Outdoor Programs Office (OPO) in the Second College Grant, a 27,000-acre property in northern New England. The Grant is a unique research, learning, and recreational environment for students, staff, faculty, and guests. The Caretaker leverages this property through educational program design and execution, maintenance of... View Details Bookmark Director, Master of Engineering Management Program ADMN – Administration, STUDNTSVCS – Student Services 1000308 Regular Full Time Thayer School 05/18/2022 The Director of the MEM Program is responsible for working with the MEM Executive Director for ongoing delivery, maintenance, growth, and evolution of the MEM Program; working in collaboration with Thayer School faculty, staff, and administration to identify and prepare the next generation of MEM program graduate leaders to engage with industry in corporate-sponsored class projects, in finding ... View Details Bookmark Senior Research Administrator FIN/ACCT – Finance and Accounting 1128129 Regular Full Time The Dartmouth Institute 05/18/2022 To provide financial and administrative management and analysis for several complex operating and project budgets including multiple funding sources, multi-site research projects, or program projects. Applies a thorough understanding of the principles and practices of financial and grants management in the accomplishment of financial and administrative activities. View Details Bookmark Director of Alumni Engagement ADMN – Administration, DEVE – Development / Advancement 1011487 Regular Full Time Volunteer Engagement 05/18/2022 In support of Dartmouth’s Alumni Relations mission, the Director of Alumni Engagement provides program leadership to engage volunteers and build connection between alumni and Dartmouth. Provides strategic oversight, vision, and leadership for alumni through volunteer engagement and in partnership with more than 200 recognized and active alumni organizations (including classes, clubs, and groups... View Details Bookmark Assistant Director DEVE – Development / Advancement 1012055 Regular Full Time Conferences and Events 05/18/2022 In collaboration with the Director of Advancement Events and other Advancement staff members, contributes to Advancement’s strategic and tactical development of events and programs that promote specific division objectives by engaging alumni, parents, and friends to support the priorities of Advancement and the College. View Details Bookmark Chief of Staff - Office of Communications ADMN – Administration, COMM – Communications (Print & Media) 1128105 Regular Full Time Office of Communications 05/18/2022 The Chief of Staff for Communications (COS) serves as a key strategic advisor to the Vice President for Communications (VP), working in partnership with the senior leadership in the Office of Communications (OC) to refine and implement a communications strategy and roadmap for Dartmouth. Reporting to the VP, the COS will help prioritize and drive the activities of the OC while planning and form... View Details Bookmark Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next Dartmouth College Office of Human Resources | 7 Lebanon Street Suite 203 | Hanover, NH 03755 | Ph 603.646.3411 | jobs@dartmouth.edu To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.