Skip to main content Diversity Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty & Research Interdisciplinary Communities News About Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty Department News Department Events Diversity and Community Resources Mechanical engineering is among the most diversified of the traditional engineering disciplines. Mechanical engineers design and build machines and devices that enable humans to live and work in space, in the air, on the ground, and under water. Their machines can extend our physical capabilities, improve our health and standard of living, and impact the environment in which we live. Naturally, much of what engineers can or cannot do depends on the materials they have available to tackle their tasks. This is why engineers and material scientists work closely together with the goal of tailoring not only the mechanical, but also chemical and electrical properties of materials to make new applications possible. Read more from Department Chair Udo Schwarz >> Areas of Research view all Soft Matter & Complex Fluids Combustion Physics of Novel Materials Amorphous Materials department faculty view all Udo D. Schwarz Department Chair Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science & Chemical & Environmental Engineering Corey S. O'Hern Director of Undergraduate Studies Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science & Physics Jan Schroers Director of Graduate Studies Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science 05/17/2022 New SEAS fund will help nurture Yale-borne ideas that benefit humanity Technologies created in the labs of the Yale School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) are used to treat cancer, deliver clean water to communities where it is desperately needed, and... learn more... Charles Ambler Undergraduate Alumnus, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science “The spark of curiosity that was fostered during my Yale career has stayed with me to this day, helping me to look at engineering problems from a variety of angles.” School of Engineering & Applied Science | Yale University17 Hillhouse Avenue • U.S. Mail: P.O. Box 208292 • New Haven, CT 06520–8292 • Phone 203–432–4200 Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Security Copyright Accessibility Facebook Twitter