Skip to main content Diversity Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty & Research Interdisciplinary Communities News About News & Events News Events Yale Engineering Magazine Recent News Department <Any>Applied PhysicsBiomedical EngineeringChemical and Environmental EngineeringComputer ScienceElectrical EngineeringMechanical Engineering and Materials Science 05/17/2022 New SEAS fund will help nurture Yale-borne ideas that benefit humanity Department: Applied Physics, Biomedical Engineering, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Technologies created in the labs of the Yale School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) are used to treat cancer, deliver clean water to communities where it is desperately needed, and... learn more... 05/16/2022 An Intelligent Quantum Sensor Department: Electrical Engineering A team of researchers has built an intelligent sensor – the size of about 1/1000 of the cross-section of a human hair – that can simultaneously detect the intensity, polarization and wavelength of... learn more... 04/27/2022 Yale Announces $5M Roberts Innovation Fund to Commercialize Engineering Faculty Discoveries Department: Applied Physics, Biomedical Engineering, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science In recent years, innovations from Yale’s School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) faculty have aided in cancer treatment, provided clean water to developing countries and advanced the... learn more... 03/24/2022 Unique Yale Master's Program Will Combine Surgery and Engineering Department: Applied Physics, Biomedical Engineering, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science In medicine, one size does not fit all. This is especially true for orthopaedic surgery, where medical devices and surgical approaches designed specifically for a patient's anatomy are linked to... learn more... 03/22/2022 Shedding Light on Lasers’ Powers Department: Applied Physics, Electrical Engineering Hui Cao keeps finding new ways for lasers to improve our world This article originally appeared in Yale... learn more... 02/22/2022 Yale to make landmark investments in engineering and applied science Department: Applied Physics, Biomedical Engineering, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Yale University today announced bold new investments in the School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) and in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) that will accelerate the university's... learn more... 01/27/2022 More Control in Delivering Light to Human Tissue and Other Systems Department: Applied Physics, Electrical Engineering In recent years, scientists have been able to transmit light through opaque surfaces, such as white paint or human tissue, which had once been considered impossible. However, a technique for... learn more... 01/19/2022 Less wattage, more brain power Department: Computer Science, Electrical Engineering Since they came into use by physicians and researchers, Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCIs) or Brain-Machine Interfaces (BMIs) have provided ways to treat neurological disorders and shed light on how... learn more... 12/13/2021 Four SEAS Faculty Members Make ‘Highly Cited Researchers’ List Department: Applied Physics, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Electrical Engineering Four Yale Engineering faculty members were included in Clarivate Analytics’ 2021 ranking of “Highly Cited Researchers.” Each year, the company collects scientific and research data that identifies... learn more... 12/07/2021 Xia Named Fellow of Optica Department: Electrical Engineering Electrical engineer Fengnian Xia has been elected as a Fellow of Optica. Optica’s board of directors elected 106 members from 24 countries to the Society’s 2022 Fellow Class. This year’s... learn more... 11/10/2021 Karbasi wins Bell Labs Prize for Brain Mapping Technology Department: Computer Science, Electrical Engineering Amin Karbasi, associate professor of electrical engineering, and Mehraveh Salehi (Ph.D. ’19, Electrical Engineering) won second place at Nokia’s Bell Labs Prize ceremony Tuesday for their work on... learn more... 08/16/2021 SEAS Welcomes its Latest Faculty Members Department: Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Cybersecurity, quantum computing, machine learning, and fluid mechanics are just some of the subjects of expertise of recent SEAS faculty hires in the Electrical Engineering, Mechanical... learn more... 07/29/2021 Yale Scientists Take Lead Roles in Two NSF-Funded AI Institutes Department: Computer Science, Electrical Engineering Yale researchers are taking a major role in two artificial intelligence (AI) institutes, each funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF). learn more... 06/22/2021 SEAS Entrepreneur Q&A: Monika Weber on Launching a Start-up While at Yale Department: Electrical Engineering Dr. Monika Weber, CEO and founder of Boston area-based Fluid-Screen, co-invented the bacterial and virus detection and identification technology that her company is based on while still a... learn more... 06/03/2021 Researchers make ultracompact on-chip computational infrared spectrometer Department: Electrical Engineering An international team of researchers has developed a mid-infrared spectrometer smaller than the diameter of a human hair. learn more... 1 of 20 ›› School of Engineering & Applied Science | Yale University17 Hillhouse Avenue • U.S. Mail: P.O. Box 208292 • New Haven, CT 06520–8292 • Phone 203–432–4200 Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Security Copyright Accessibility Facebook Twitter