Skip to main content Diversity Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty & Research Interdisciplinary Communities News About Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Action Plan Resources Committee Dashboard SEAS Commitment to Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging The School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) at Yale strives to create an inclusive and supportive environment for all members of its community to learn, work, and live our lives together. We acknowledge, welcome, and celebrate our differences, including those related to age, race and ethnicity, gender and gender identity, nationality, immigration status, sexual orientation, religion, disability status, and socioeconomic status. We work to prevent implicit biases from negatively impacting our community. Motivated by the understanding that research and education benefit from the supportive involvement of all people, we are committed to broadening participation and diversity in our departments and in our professions. We actively support the recruitment, retention, and success of undergraduate and graduate students, postdocs, staff, and faculty from varied backgrounds. Spring 2022 SEAS DEIB Workshops As part of the SEAS DEIB plan, we are committed to offering evidence-based diversity training for the SEAS community. Our goal is for all staff, faculty, postdocs and graduate students in our community to attend one of these workshops. These workshops below were offered in the fall; you’re welcome to attend the same workshop and/or a new one. Workshop Date, Time Facilitator Location SEAS Point of Contact Inclusive Teaching (for graduate students and postdocs) March 8, 4- 5 p.m. Suzanne Young Zoom Sabrina Whiteman Leading Inclusive Lab Meetings March 11, 2-3 p.m. Jenny Frederick Zoom Michael Loewenberg Inclusive Teaching (for faculty and staff) March 14, 3-4:30 p.m. Melissa Scheve IN PERSON: Poorvu 120C Michael Loewenberg Implicit Bias March 18, 10:30-12 p.m. Darin Latimore IN PERSON: Teal Room, 17 Hillhouse Sabrina Whiteman In addition, we encourage all SEAS community members to take advantage of the multitude of opportunities available to us, with belonging-related events happening nearly every day. Upcoming campus opportunities for staff: Everyday Unconscious Bias, 4/6, 11am Respecting All Connecticut Families: The Legal Parent-Child Relationship for Unmarried, Same-Sex, and Nonbiological Parents, 4/14 4-5:15 p.m. Admission is free; registration is required. Who is a parent in Connecticut? The Connecticut Parentage Act, which came into effect in January 2022, is the most significant update to Connecticut’s parentage laws in decades. It ensures that all children in the state have equal access to the security of a legal parent-child relationship regardless of the circumstances of their birth or the marital status, gender, or sexual orientation of their parents. Learn more about parentage in Connecticut from Professor Douglas NeJaime, the CPA's primary drafter. Douglas NeJaime, the Anne Urowsky Professor of Law, will be in conversation with Deborah Stanley-McAulay, Associate Vice President for Employee Engagement and Workplace Culture. This is a Belonging at Yale event, introduced by Kimberly Goff-Crews, Secretary and Vice President for University Life. OUCH! That Stereotype Hurts, 4/22, 12 pm For more information and to register, visit Yale's Training and Certification website (connection to the Yale VPN is required to access the site). Resources: - Best Practices for Inclusive Teaching in Yale Computer Science, Yale CS Dept - Inclusive Lab Meetings in Engineering, Jenny Frederick, Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning: Ten simple rules for productive lab meetings (also many good references) Ten simple rules for building an antiracist lab Reflections and Actions for Creating an Inclusive Lab Environment To Build an Inclusive Culture, Start with Inclusive Meetings Inclusive Zoom meetings Action Plan Goals and actions strategically developed for SEAS to prioritize diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging as fundamental in the pursuit of academic excellence. READ MORE » Resources A collection of resources at Yale, including links to policies, anonymous reporting hotlines, mental health & wellness, affinity groups, cultural centers, and many more resources. READ MORE » Committee History and current membership of the SEAS DEIB committee as well as a form to anonymously contact us. READ MORE » Dashboard Data about SEAS graduate student body composition, as well as statistics about admissions, retention, and job placement. READ MORE » School of Engineering & Applied Science | Yale University17 Hillhouse Avenue • U.S. Mail: P.O. Box 208292 • New Haven, CT 06520–8292 • Phone 203–432–4200 Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Security Copyright Accessibility Facebook Twitter