Skip to main content Diversity Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty & Research Interdisciplinary Communities News About Biomedical Engineering Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty Diversity Department News Department Events Faculty Openings We are a young department — founded in 2003 — but we build on decades of research and education in medicine and engineering at one of our nation's oldest and most distinguished universities. Biomedical Engineering at Yale has two related goals: first, the use of the tools and methods of engineering to better understand human physiology and disease; second, the development of new technologies for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of human disease. Read more from Department Chair James S. Duncan >> Areas of Research view all Biomedical Imaging Biomolecular Engineering Drug Delivery Tissue Engineering department faculty view all James S. Duncan Department Chair Ebenezer K. Hunt Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering & Diagnostic Radiology Lawrence h. Staib Director of Undergraduate Studies Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Radiology and Biomedical Imaging & Electrical Engineering Richard E. Carson Director of Graduate Studies Professor of Biomedical Engineering & Diagnostic Radiology and Director, Yale PET Center Mark Saltzman Co-Founder, Yale Center for Biomedical and Interventional Technology Goizueta Foundation Professor of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering and Founding Chair of Biomedical Engineering 02/22/2022 Yale to make landmark investments in engineering and applied science Yale University today announced bold new investments in the School of Engineering & Applied Science (SEAS) and in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) that will accelerate the university's... learn more... Erin Steenblock Graduate Alumnus, Biomedical Engineering "One of the greatest assets of Yale’s Biomedical Engineering program is its extensive connections to the basic science and clinical departments throughout the Yale School of Medicine." School of Engineering & Applied Science | Yale University17 Hillhouse Avenue • U.S. Mail: P.O. Box 208292 • New Haven, CT 06520–8292 • Phone 203–432–4200 Site Map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Security Copyright Accessibility Facebook Twitter