Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Secretary Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Trustees of Columbia University Governing Documents Honors and Prizes Secretaries of the University Board of Trustees Trustees Emeriti Recent Honorees Honorees 1945-Present Process Submit a Nomination Office of the Secretary Home Welcome to the Office of the Secretary of Columbia University. Established in 1895, the Office of the Secretary has primary responsibility for facilitating the governance of the University. The office directly supports the work of the Board of Trustees, including the staffing of quarterly board meetings, annual board retreats, committee meetings, and orientation for new Trustees. The office also maintains a directory of trustees and updates the University Charters and Statutes. In addition, the office oversees the process for selecting honorary degree recipients and the winners of the University Medal for Excellence. The Office of the Secretary also undertakes, from time to time, special projects on behalf of the president and the University Trustees. Trustees Thank President Bollinger Earlier today, President Lee C. Bollinger announced that he will step down at the end of the 2022-2023 academic year, his 21st year as president of Columbia University. Lee’s presidency has proven to be one of the most consequential in all of Columbia’s 268-year history. His leadership has had a profound impact on the University and will leave behind a rich foundation upon which a new era for Columbia can flourish. Building knowledge, creating space for the exploration of new ideas, and examining what is needed for the betterment of future societies are just some of the themes of Lee’s tenure. But at heart he is an educator, and every new building project, academic initiative, and fundraising campaign that he undertook was in service of creating a world-class environment for learning and teaching. Columbia’s four campuses have been transformed as a result. Read the full letter. I Need Help With Academic Appointments Appointment or reappointment of officers of instruction and the terms of appointment are first confirmed in writing by the department chair or dean. They are then subject to approval by the Provost of the University. Upon approval, the Office of the Provost issues formal letters of appointment on behalf of the Secretary of the University. Questions regarding academic appointment letters may be directed to Pearl Spiro, Associate Provost for Academic Appointments (408 Low Library, 212-854-3813, ps27@columbia.edu). Obtaining Blue Seal Letters Blue Seal Letters enable faculty to receive appropriate courtesies for observation and study while traveling; they are addressed to officials in charge of archives, government agencies, institutes of health, and institutions of learning, libraries, and museums. To obtain a Blue Seal Letter, send a request via email to secretary@columbia.edu with the following information: Name Department Tenure Status Travel Dates and Requested Permissions Contact Information Processing takes approximately one week. Frequently Asked Questions How do I obtain information on University Trustees? An official list and official biographies of University Trustees are available on the Board of Trustees page. Where can I submit a nomination for University Honors and Prizes or the Medal for Excellence? Information regarding the process, background, and form for nominating candidates can be found in the Honors and Prizes section of our website. I have a question about my appointment letter. Questions regarding academic appointment letters may be directed to Pearl Spiro, Associate Provost for Academic Appointments (408 Low Library, 212-854-3813, ps27@columbia.edu). See All Contact Us Office hours are 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. 211 Low Library, MC 4324 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 secretary@columbia.edu 211 Low Library535 West 116th Street, Mail Code 4324 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us secretary@columbia.edu Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close