Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Secretary Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Trustees of Columbia University Governing Documents Honors and Prizes Secretaries of the University Board of Trustees Trustees Emeriti Recent Honorees Honorees 1945-Present Process Submit a Nomination Office of the Secretary You are here: Home Board of Trustees Board of Trustees The Trustees of Columbia University Overall governance of the University lies in the hands of its Board of Trustees. The trustees select the president, oversee all faculty and senior administrative appointments, monitor the budget, supervise the endowment, and protect University property. Zhu Chen Wanda M. Holland Greene Victor Mendelson Tracy K. Smith Thelma Golden Susan Meiselas Shirley Wang Shazi Visram Rolando T. Acosta Robert Owen Paxton Robert Langer Robert Darnton Peter Awn Patrick Gaspard Padma Desai Molly Ola Pinney Martin Duberman Mark Gallogly Lynn Sykes Lu Li Lisa Carnoy Lee C. Bollinger Keith Goggin Kathy Surace-Smith Karen Brooks Hopkins Julia Bacha Joseph A. Greenaway, Jr. Jonathan Rosand Jonathan Lavine João Gilberto Jeh Johnson Jamie Kern Lima and Paolo Lima Jacques Pépin Fermi Wang Eric Holder, Jr. Elizabeth Diller Duchesne Drew Douglas Chalmers Dean Dakolias David Greenwald Claire Shipman Bradley Efron Ban Ki-Moon Arthur Mitchell Andrew F. Barth Amanda M. Burden Allen Hyman Admiral Michael Mullen Adam Pritzker Adam Pritzker is the Founder and CEO of Assembled Universe, an investment group developing the next generation of consumer, software, and financial services companies. Assembled Universe's subsidiaries include Assembled Brands Capital, a partnership with Oaktree Capital Management to provide growth capital to a consumer brands, Kid Made Modern, a DIY arts-and-crafts company to inspire kids through creativity, Khaite, a women’s ready-to-wear collection that reimagines classic American sportswear, and Assembled Financial, consumer financial services company serving underbanked communities. Adam is also the Co-Founder and Chairman of Future Now, a non-partisan, not-for-profit organization dedicated to improving Americans’ lives by winning state legislative majorities and working with them to achieve goals for the common good. Future Now serves over 800 lawmakers committed to Americas Goals, a progressive blueprint for state lawmakers with model legislation and policy research. Adam co-founded General Assembly, a leading education company providing workforce-training in technology, business, and design, which has trained over one million students since inception. General Assembly was acquired by The Adecco Group in 2018. Adam serves as a Trustee of Columbia University, where he studied economics and sustainable development with Jeffrey D. Sachs and graduated with a B.A. in Social Anthropology. Abigail Black Elbaum Sort by People Department Sort by Group Function Expertise Keyword filter: Filter AllLetter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit 211 Low Library535 West 116th Street, Mail Code 4324 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us secretary@columbia.edu Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close