Skip to main content < University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Trustees & Governance More Trustees & Governance The Trustees Statutes of the Trustees Trustees Meeting Schedule Open Trustee Meeting Liaisons Divestment & Proxy Voting Proxy Voting Divestment Ad Hoc Committee on Divestment Social Responsibility Advisory Committee Penn Medicine Board Use of University Name Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Advisors More Advisors Advisors Guidelines Advisors Membership Centers Advisors Membership Schools Univ Council More Univ Council Bylaws Steering Committee Status Monthly Reports Steering Annual Reports Committees Open Forum Membership Meeting Materials Ceremonies More Ceremonies Diplomas Commencement Commencement Speakers Honorary Degrees Honorary Degree Recipients Honorary Degree Nominations Commencement Speaker Nomination Medal of Achievement Convocation Accessible Seating for Commencement Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Office of the University Secretary University of Pennsylvania Diplomas FAQs Contact Us The Office of the University Secretary supports effective University governance, managing the work of the University Trustees, its leadership and its committees. The Office also supports the efforts of Penn’s 15 School and Center Boards of Advisors boards. Working closely with Trustee Board Chair Scott L. Bok, Interim President Wendell Pritchett, Interim Provost Beth A. Winkelstein and as well as Penn’s Deans, Center Directors, and Development and Alumni Relations Offices, our Office seeks to ensure the continuity of Penn’s dedicated and diverse volunteer leadership through board cultivation and development, and board member engagement through effective meeting planning and communication. The Office of the University Secretary also manages the work of the University Council and its committees. Board of Trustees Board of Advisors University Council Our Office also directs key institutional and ceremonial programs such as Commencement and Convocation, oversees the Honorary Degree, Medal for Distinguished Achievement and Commencement speaker selection processes, issues all University diplomas, provides visitor protocol assistance, and manages other special events. Ceremonies Learn more about institutional and ceremonial programs such as Commencement and Convocation, Honorary Degree, Medal for Distinguished Achievement and Commencement speaker selection processes, and University diplomas. Go to Commencement, Convocation and more In addition, the Office of the Secretary manages all aspects of the processes by which questions of Divestment and Proxy Voting are addressed, including the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on Divestment and the Social Responsibility Advisory Committee. Finally, our Office maintains custody of the University seal and regulates the use of Penn's name, trademarks and insignia. More detailed information about the work of the Office of the University Secretary is found on this site. I encourage you to contact us for further assistance. Medha Narvekar Vice President and University Secretary DIVESTMENT Divestment & Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on Divestment PROXY VOTING Proxy Voting & Social Responsibility Advisory Committee University Seal and Penn's Name The Office of the University Secretary maintains custody of the University seal and regulates the use of Penn's name, trademarks and insignia. Use of University Name COMMENCEMENT Learn About the Ceremony FAQs Answers to Questions DIPLOMAS Diplomas and Replacements Address Office of the University Secretary 1 College Hall, Room 211 Philadelphia, PA 19104-6303 Phone Phone (215) 898-7005 Fax (215) 898-0103 Contact Us Office of the University Secretary Location Campus Map University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement