Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life Belonging at Yale Student Life University Events Commencement Services & Resources People Home > Services & Resources > Land Acknowledgment Statements Land Acknowledgment Statements Words of recognition and thanks frequently open events or are found in written event programs. You may notice that some individuals and units at Yale begin an event by acknowledging the relationships of indigenous peoples and nations to the land on which the event is taking place, or record these relationships in an event program. This is especially true if an event has connections to indigenous communities, histories, or cultures. Different units have different aims for adopting this practice of “land acknowledgment.” For example: It’s a way to show recognition and respect. It can inspire ongoing engagement with indigenous peoples and nations. And it can help create broader awareness of important histories. Land acknowledgements are most often offered in a welcome to the audience, in opening remarks, or in an event program. The following statement is approved university language to be used at university events and in documents that include a land acknowledgment. Yale University acknowledges that indigenous peoples and nations, including Mohegan,1 Mashantucket Pequot,2 Eastern Pequot,3 Schaghticoke,4 Golden Hill Paugussett,5 Niantic,6 and the Quinnipiac7 and other Algonquian8 speaking peoples, have stewarded through generations the lands and waterways of what is now the state of Connecticut. We honor and respect the enduring relationship that exists between these peoples and nations and this land. Pronunciation guide: 1 mow.hee.gn 2 mash.an.tuck.et pee.kwot 3 east.ern. pee.kwot 4 skat.ih.kohk 5 gold.en. hill po.gaw.sett 6 ni.han.tic 7 kwihn.ih.pee.ac 8 al-gon-kwihn Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 1 Prospect Street, Sheffield-Sterling-Strathcona, New Haven, CT 06511 Mailing Address: PO Box 208230, New Haven, CT 06520-8230 Phone: 203.432.6602 | Fax: 203.432.7307 | Email: secretary.office@yale.edu Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr