Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life Belonging at Yale Student Life University Events Commencement Services & Resources People Home > Student Life > Use of Outdoor Spaces Use of Outdoor Spaces Requests for Permission Registered groups and organizations from Yale’s schools who want to use the university’s outdoor spaces for an event must apply for and obtain permission as provided below. Please provide as much information about the event as possible when requesting space, and include the purpose, time, duration, and location of the activity, as well as the expected number of attendees. To allow for the proper consideration and approval of requests, permission should be requested 72 hours in advance or with lead time appropriate to the event. Requests will be considered based on several factors, including: Weather and impact on the grounds, and the existing condition of the grounds Safety and security Time of year (whether classes are in session; whether other University sponsored events are scheduled such as orientations, receptions, reunions or commencement events) Possible disruption to regular or essential operations of the university Potential for significant infringement on the rights of others, including other users’ ability to access buildings and navigate campus and the potential for noise disruptions Set-up required Duration Regulations that apply to use of outdoor space: When requesting use of an outdoor space on campus and in planning an event, the following should be taken into account: Pathways and entryways to buildings must be kept clear and accessible. Amplified sound is not permitted on weekdays during the academic term, other than from 12 noon to 1:00 pm and between 5-6:30 p.m. Amplified sound may be further restricted in areas near academic buildings or residences, or in consideration of other events occurring on campus. The activity must not promote an outside commercial interest. The activity must not involve the collection or solicitation of money unless advance permission is obtained. No firearms or other weapons are permitted on Yale’s campus or grounds. Grills will not be allowed in most outdoor spaces. In some circumstances grills may be permitted on Old Campus or in the courtyards of residential colleges but only after approval of the supervisor of those spaces and with the approval of Fire Code Compliance Services. Please call: 203-432-9923. Prior approval from the fire marshal is required for the use of any materials involving electricity, heat or fire. No wax candles or other live fires will be allowed at vigils, memorial services or other community or campus events. Grounds must be left in their original state. Charges will be assessed to groups and organizations who leave the grounds in disrepair after the event. Vehicular activity is not allowed on grassy areas. Additional requirements may apply as part of any permission, in the discretion of the granting office. Discrimination and Harassment Concerns Guidance Regarding Free Expression and Peaceable Assembly for Students at Yale Guidelines for community engagement during the pandemic How to Stay Safe and Healthy at a Public Demonstration Missing Student Notification Policy Political Campaign Activity Sexual Misconduct Response & Prevention Use of Outdoor Space Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 1 Prospect Street, Sheffield-Sterling-Strathcona, New Haven, CT 06511 Mailing Address: PO Box 208230, New Haven, CT 06520-8230 Phone: 203.432.6602 | Fax: 203.432.7307 | Email: secretary.office@yale.edu Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr