Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Secretary Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Trustees of Columbia University Governing Documents Honors and Prizes Secretaries of the University Board of Trustees Trustees Emeriti Recent Honorees Honorees 1945-Present Process Submit a Nomination Office of the Secretary You are here: Home Honors and Prizes Honors and Prizes Honors and Prizes Each year at Commencement the University bestows honorary degrees on several esteemed individuals who exemplify the ideals of the University through their significant scholarly, artistic, or societal achievements or contributions. This is the highest honor the University can bestow on an individual, and the Trustees endeavor to ensure recognition for achievements across all of the various areas of study and fields of academia. Honorary degrees are awarded in the following categories. The Arts The Humanities and Social Sciences The Natural, Applied and Pure Sciences Public Life and Government Professor Emeritus/Emerita Honorees do not need to be graduates of Columbia. The University Medal for Excellence is also awarded at Commencement to an alumnus or alumna under 45 years of age whose record in scholarship, public service, and/or professional life is outstanding. Graduates from all divisions of the University, including Barnard College and Teachers College, are eligible for the Medal. Please note that no honorary degree or University Medal for Excellence will be awarded to any person who is a full-time regular officer of the University. Neither the University Medal for Excellence nor honorary degrees are awarded in absentia. (Review and download a PDF of all previous honorees.) Recent Honorees Zhu Chen Tracy K. Smith Thelma Golden Susan Meiselas Shazi Visram Robert Owen Paxton Robert Langer Robert Darnton Peter Awn Patrick Gaspard Padma Desai Molly Ola Pinney Martin Duberman Lynn Sykes Karen Brooks Hopkins Julia Bacha João Gilberto Jamie Kern Lima and Paolo Lima Jacques Pépin Eric Holder, Jr. Elizabeth Diller Douglas Chalmers Bradley Efron Ban Ki-Moon Arthur Mitchell Amanda M. Burden Allen Hyman Admiral Michael Mullen Sort Department Group Function Expertise Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit 211 Low Library535 West 116th Street, Mail Code 4324 · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us secretary@columbia.edu Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close