Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life Belonging at Yale Student Life University Events Commencement Services & Resources People Welcome The Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life provides leadership to the support, cultivation, and celebration of Yale’s diverse community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni. In collaboration with faculty, administration, staff, student leaders from across campus, and with alumni, the office leads the university’s work to further diversity, equity, and inclusion in service of the university’s mission, fostering an environment in which all members of the community can contribute, grow, and feel a sense of belonging. The Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life crafts the vision for student life for all undergraduate, graduate, and professional students at Yale, furthering the university’s aspirations to be the most student-focused research university in the world. The office supports the celebration and commemoration of the contributions of the Yale community by producing all major ceremonies, including Baccalaureate, Commencement, Opening Assembly, Veterans Day, and other special events. The Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life processes all university diplomas and letters of introduction, and manages the awarding of prizes (departmental, academic, college, and athletic). The office is also responsible for overseeing the academic calendar, annual reports, and registration of non-undergraduate organizations. Kimberly M. Goff-Crews is the secretary and vice president for university life. News Bells Will Ring in Harkness Tower to Mark Pandemic Anniversary March 7, 2022 Members of the Yale University Guild of Carillonneurs Evan Hochstein ‘23, Mitchell Dubin ‘25, and Joyce Liao ‘25, will perform musical selections on the Yale Memorial... More news... Secretary Kimberly M. Goff-Crews Kimberly M. Goff Crews is Secretary and Vice President for University Life. Read more about the Secretary Remembrances We come together to honor those who have died since March 2020 of COVID-19 or other causes. Visit the Remembrances page. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 1 Prospect Street, Sheffield-Sterling-Strathcona, New Haven, CT 06511 Mailing Address: PO Box 208230, New Haven, CT 06520-8230 Phone: 203.432.6602 | Fax: 203.432.7307 | Email: secretary.office@yale.edu Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr