Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life Belonging at Yale Student Life University Events Commencement Services & Resources People Home > Student Life > Missing Student Notification Procedure Missing Student Notification Procedure The university annually informs each student who resides in on-campus housing of the option to identify an individual to be contacted if the student is missing. For students under age 18 who are not emancipated, the university is required by law to notify a custodial parent or guardian in the event a student is missing. When students register for courses electronically, students are asked by the Registrar to designate an individual other than their first emergency contact, if they so desire. Students are notified that their contact information will be registered confidentially, that the information will be accessible only to authorized campus officials, and that the information may not be disclosed, except to law enforcement personnel in furtherance of a missing person investigation. Under the university’s missing person notification procedures, the university will notify Yale Police Departmentand any other appropriate law enforcement agency immediately after the time that any student who lives in on-campus housing is determined to be missing. If a student who lives in on-campus housing is missing for more than 24 hours, the university will notify the individual either listed as the emergency contact or identified by the student. If a student is under 18 years of age and not emancipated, the student’s parent or guardian as well as the student’s designated contact person will be notified within 24 hours that the student is missing. While this requirement is focused on students who live on campus, the university collects this contact information for all students, including those who live off campus. Reports of missing students should be made immediately to YPD. In addition, residential college heads or deans, or deans of academic or student affairs, can also be notified; they in turn will notify YPD. For more information, contact YPD (203) 432-4400. Discrimination and Harassment Concerns Guidance Regarding Free Expression and Peaceable Assembly for Students at Yale Guidelines for community engagement during the pandemic How to Stay Safe and Healthy at a Public Demonstration Missing Student Notification Policy Political Campaign Activity Sexual Misconduct Response & Prevention Use of Outdoor Space Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 1 Prospect Street, Sheffield-Sterling-Strathcona, New Haven, CT 06511 Mailing Address: PO Box 208230, New Haven, CT 06520-8230 Phone: 203.432.6602 | Fax: 203.432.7307 | Email: secretary.office@yale.edu Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr