Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content Safety Exit University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Menu Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Definitions & Policies Sexual Violence Relationship Violence Stalking Sexual Harassment Resources Get Help Help A Friend Get Involved Traveling Abroad Resource Guide [PDF] Educational Programs Student Groups Staff & Faculty Programs About PVP Contact Us Our Team Frequently Asked Questions PVP Home Welcome to Penn Violence Prevention Penn Violence Prevention (PVP) engages the Penn community in the prevention of sexual violence, relationship violence, stalking, and sexual harassment on campus. We foster collaborative relationships across campus to ensure a survivor-centered, multi-faceted approach to support services and primary prevention. Through collective community action, we are committed to ending interpersonal violence by addressing gender inequity, social injustice, and oppression through outreach and education. Penn Violence Prevention is open and available to support you during this time. All campus and confidential resources remain available to students. Request a training Confidential Resources Interpersonal Violence Faculty & staff programs Penn Coronavirus Get Help We know that starting to look at options and resources after having an experience related to harm or violence can be frightening or overwhelming. Here are some options for what to do immediately after an incident. Get Help Resources email pvp call 215.898.6081 CONTACT SPECIAL SERVICES 24/7 “Who Are You? Being an Active Bystander” Request the PAVE training presentation for your graduate or undergraduate student group. Submit a request form Sign up for PVP's newsletter! Penn Violence Prevention's newsletter is sent via email once a month to members of the Penn community. Our newsletter highlights PVP educational opportunities, including our Supporting Survivors and Anti Violence Advocates training dates, as well as events around campus that are related to the work we do! Sign up for pvp's newsletter Previous Next Announcements Sexual Misconduct Policy 11 months ago The University has published the updated Sexual Misconduct Policy, which includes the Sexual Harassment Policy, the Sexual Violence, Relationship Violence, and Stalking Policy, and the Consensual Romantic and Sexual Relations in the Workplace and Educational Setting Policy. This policy is effective August 14, 2020. Sexual Misconduct Policy Read More Connect with us! Facebook Twitter Instagram Mailchimp Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset