Loading... HOME Quick Links Office of the CIO University IT Policies Anti-Virus Software UT Austin Disaster Recovery Planning (UT Ready) Acceptable Use Acknowledgement Form (for staff/faculty) Security Exception Request Stolen Equipment Report Form Engagement Request Form General Network Device Registration Hall of Fame Why You Should Work in Cybersecurity Policies Information Resources Use and Security Policy Acceptable Use Policy for University Employees Acceptable Use Policy for University Students Digital Millennium Copyright Act System Hardening Guides Policies, Standards, and Guidelines Continued *New* Minimum Security Standards Research SUPPORT TOPICS Security Awareness Compromised Credentials Education & Outreach Procedural Documentation Getting Anti-Virus Improve your Security Posture Vulnerability Management Program Report Violation Contact Search Search form Digital Millennium Copyright Act Table of Contents Introduction Process for DMCA Takedown Notices Involving Personally Owned Systems Process for DMCA Takedown Notices Involving University Owned Systems Process for DMCA Pre-suit Settlement Notices Process for DMCA Related Subpoenas Requesting Identifying Information Revision History Approvals 1. Introduction The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), described as the most dramatic change to copyright law in a generation, was the 105th Congress's effort to update copyright law for the digital environment. WARNING: Under the DMCA, The University of Texas at Austin reserves the right to terminate computing services of users who repeatedly infringe upon the rights of copyright owners. If you have questions about whether you may be infringing on another's copyright, please see the UT Libraries Copyright Crashcourse. Designated Agent to Receive Notification of Copyright Infringement Claims: Cam Beasley Telephone: (512) 475-9476 FAX: (512) 475-9454 E-mail: DMCAagent@utexas.edu 2. Process for DMCA Takedown Notices Involving Personally Owned Systems The DMCA Agent: Verifies the report adheres to DMCA specifications. Identifies the responsible user. Forwards the report to the responsible user and informs the user of the university's policies and legal obligations to respond to legal requests for further information. The DMCA Agent also points the user to best practices that are available online. Copies the notice to Student Judicial Services (SJS), for informational purposes. No further action is taken by the DMCA Agent. If multiple offenses occur, the DMCA Agent will inform SJS and the student may be required to take additional awareness training and may also lose privileges to use the campus network. 3. Process for DMCA Takedown Notices Involving University Owned Systems The DMCA Agent: Verifies report adheres to DMCA specifications. Identifies the responsible user. Forwards the report to the responsible user and informs the user of the university's policies and legal obligations to respond to legal requests for further information. The DMCA Agent also points the user to best practices that are available online. Notices are also copied to the respective supervisor. Disciplinary actions are generally left to the discretion of local management. If no response is received within twenty-four hours of identifying the user, the connection is disabled until the local technical support contact (TSC) contacts the DMCA Agent. If multiple offenses occur, the DMCA Agent will inform the Provost or other appropriate management so that the appropriate disciplinary action can be taken. 4. Process for DMCA Pre-suit Settlement Notices The DMCA Agent: Verifies the report adheres to DMCA specifications. Identifies the responsible user. Forwards the report to the responsible user and informs them of the university's policies and legal obligations to respond to legal requests for further information. The DMCA Agent also points the user to best practices that are available online. Recommends the user consult with Legal Services for Students, or other legal counsel to determine what future actions are necessary. No further action is taken by the DMCA Agent. 5. Process for DMCA Related Subpoenas Requesting Identifying Information The DMCA Agent: Receives verified lawful requests from the Office of Legal Affairs. Identifies the responsible user. Provides timely response to the requestor with requested identifying information, if it is available. Informs the responsible user that the university has responded to a subpoena request, which identified them as being associated to an alleged copyright violation. Recommends the user consult with Legal Services for Students, or other legal counsel to determine what future actions are necessary. No further action is taken by the DMCA Agent. 6. REVISION HISTORY Revision History Version Date New Original DMCA.html 6/18/2013 Converted back to HTML DMCA.pdf 4/26/2012 Converted web page to PDF 7. APPROVALS Approvals Name Role Members Date Cam Beasley Chief Information Security Officer 08/24/2015 Information Security Office Copyright © 2006-21, Information Security Office. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Accessibility Policy