Skip to Content Institute for Security Policy and Law Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission, Vision, & Goals PeopleExpand Collapse section Director Deputy Director Staff Affiliated Faculty Distinguished Fellows Military Fellows & Scholars Partners Graduate & Research Assistants Alumni & Students Affiliated Student Organizations Support SPL Our WorkExpand Collapse section Academic ProgramsExpand Collapse section CAS in National Security & Counterterrorism Law CAS in Security Studies CAS in Postconflict Reconstruction Syracuse University ICCAE Program on Security in the Middle East Becker Lecture Series Everett Speaker Series Affiliated Student Organizations Research ProjectsExpand Collapse section Law, National Security, & Counterterrorism New Frontiers in Science, Cyber, & Technology Security Governance Security In the Middle East & Islam Homeland Security Archived Projects Public ServiceExpand Collapse section DOS S/GP Evaluation The Prevention Project: Organizing Against Violent Extremism News Calendar Blog Video PublicationsExpand Collapse section Staff & Faculty Publications Journal of National Security Law & Policy Alumni & StudentsExpand Collapse section Affiliated Student Organizations Career Resources Academic Resources Syracuse University ICCAE Contact Search Search Institute for Security Policy and Law A multidisciplinary, university-based center for the study of national and international security. Prospective Students Close dialog Our Academic Programs Study Abroad Programs & Fellowships Affiliated Student Organizations Our Amazing Alumni! Our sponsors: College of Law & Maxwell School Contact Us Share us! Featured Pages Intelligence Community Center of Academic Excellence Law & Policy of Artificial Intelligence Academic Programs Climate Change & National Security Journal of National Security Law & Policy Previous slide Next slide Essential Network Link "The connections I made in my classes have been essential to building my professional network. I was given unique opportunities to explore domestic and international legal issues, and I recommend SPL to any law student interested in national security, intelligence, or international law." Colin Tansits, JD/MPA ’17 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T11:10:03-04:00 Colin Tansits, JD/MPA ’17 "The connections I made in my classes have been essential to building my professional network. I was given unique opportunities to explore domestic and international legal issues, and I recommend SPL to any law student interested in national security, intelligence, or international law." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19410/ Strong Foundation Link "SPL has helped me establish a strong foundation in professionalism and a knowledge base in the national security field. The people I met will continue to be good friends and important contacts as I begin my career." Kyle P. Lundin, JD/MPA ’16 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T10:43:15-04:00 Kyle P. Lundin, JD/MPA ’16 "SPL has helped me establish a strong foundation in professionalism and a knowledge base in the national security field. The people I met will continue to be good friends and important contacts as I begin my career." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19401/ Reaffirming a Passion Link “I enjoyed the PCR program and learned a lot—especially in Humanitarian Action—which helped reaffirm my passion for the field of international development and encouraged me to work for the United Nations.” Ruitong (Flora) Zhou, MPA ’17 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T11:10:27-04:00 Ruitong (Flora) Zhou, MPA ’17 “I enjoyed the PCR program and learned a lot—especially in Humanitarian Action—which helped reaffirm my passion for the field of international development and encouraged me to work for the United Nations.” https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19411/ Networking Pros Link "I owe much of my future career and academic successes to SPL. The faculty not only provided high caliber expertise in the classroom, but acted as advisors and networking pros throughout my time at Syracuse University." Christopher Waters L'22 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2021-04-14T10:56:51-04:00 Christopher Waters L'22 "I owe much of my future career and academic successes to SPL. The faculty not only provided high caliber expertise in the classroom, but acted as advisors and networking pros throughout my time at Syracuse University." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/networking-pros/ Deciding Factor Link "SPL was one of my deciding factors to attend the SU College of Law. Looking back, becoming involved with this organization was one of the best decisions I ever made." Ryan Cole L'11 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T10:42:12-04:00 Ryan Cole L'11 "SPL was one of my deciding factors to attend the SU College of Law. Looking back, becoming involved with this organization was one of the best decisions I ever made." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19398/ Incredible Projects Link "The Institute connected me to incredible projects and employers, and it is where I completed some of the most fulfilling advocacy work in my academic career." Maggie Mabie, JD/MPA '19 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2019-04-30T15:36:12-04:00 Maggie Mabie, JD/MPA '19 "The Institute connected me to incredible projects and employers, and it is where I completed some of the most fulfilling advocacy work in my academic career." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/20855/ Amazing Opportunities Link "Taking Institute classes and working with its faculty provided a priceless experience, with truly amazing job opportunities and formative professional relationships I will maintain long after the end of my academic career." Shelby Mann L'19 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2019-07-03T08:54:58-04:00 Shelby Mann L'19 "Taking Institute classes and working with its faculty provided a priceless experience, with truly amazing job opportunities and formative professional relationships I will maintain long after the end of my academic career." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/21151/ Valuable Insight Link "SPL's reputation was the reason I chose to attend law school at Syracuse University. I have gained valuable insight, experience, and professional connections as a student and research assistant that I would never have been able to find elsewhere." Haley Parsons L'15 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T10:32:07-04:00 Haley Parsons L'15 "SPL's reputation was the reason I chose to attend law school at Syracuse University. I have gained valuable insight, experience, and professional connections as a student and research assistant that I would never have been able to find elsewhere." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19394/ Perfect Match Link "Combining my Information Management master's degree with SPL's Security Studies program was a perfect match and definitely assisted me in getting my first job." Marina Polachek G'19 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2019-05-10T09:21:40-04:00 Marina Polachek G'19 "Combining my Information Management master's degree with SPL's Security Studies program was a perfect match and definitely assisted me in getting my first job." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/20888/ Making Connections Link "The experience I gained from SPL goes well beyond knowledge of the black letter law. I learned to quickly analyze problems while incorporating policy and ethical considerations and to effectively convey the results of that analysis to the appropriate audience. Most importantly, I made connections with practitioners in the field, especially alumni, that helped launch my career." Ryan D. White, JD/MPA '18 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T11:09:07-04:00 Ryan D. White, JD/MPA '18 "The experience I gained from SPL goes well beyond knowledge of the black letter law. I learned to quickly analyze problems while incorporating policy and ethical considerations and to effectively convey the results of that analysis to the appropriate audience. Most importantly, I made connections with practitioners in the field, especially alumni, that helped launch my career." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19408/ Unique Asset Link "SPL is a unique asset of the College of Law and the Maxwell School of Citizenship. As a student and Graduate Assistant, I have seen how the interactions between law and policy students creates an incredibly beneficial interdisciplinary academic environment." Frank E. Garrison, MPA '19 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T10:43:43-04:00 Frank E. Garrison, MPA '19 "SPL is a unique asset of the College of Law and the Maxwell School of Citizenship. As a student and Graduate Assistant, I have seen how the interactions between law and policy students creates an incredibly beneficial interdisciplinary academic environment." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19402/ Giants in the Field Link “Through SPL I participated in projects that have reached actual clients and that introduced me to giants in the field. I cannot imagine a better network and foundation of knowledge than the one the Institute has provided.” Molly White L’16 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T11:34:50-04:00 Molly White L’16 “Through SPL I participated in projects that have reached actual clients and that introduced me to giants in the field. I cannot imagine a better network and foundation of knowledge than the one the Institute has provided.” https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19422/ Hard Work Pays Off! Link "Being a part of the SPL's community coupled with hard work is a near guarantee for postgraduate success!" Kristina Cervi L'19 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2019-05-01T09:56:58-04:00 Kristina Cervi L'19 "Being a part of the SPL's community coupled with hard work is a near guarantee for postgraduate success!" https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/20857/ Creative Application Link "In the classroom I learned the laws that apply to national security issues; in simulations, I developed skills to creatively apply these laws to complex security policies; and in research, I learned disciplined habits that have given me a firm grasp of the theoretical underpinnings of our nation's legal and political choices." Chris Beeler L'15 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T10:37:58-04:00 Chris Beeler L'15 "In the classroom I learned the laws that apply to national security issues; in simulations, I developed skills to creatively apply these laws to complex security policies; and in research, I learned disciplined habits that have given me a firm grasp of the theoretical underpinnings of our nation's legal and political choices." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19397/ They’re Everywhere! Link "SPL alumni are everywhere in the national security world, and the invaluable advice and recommendations I received from my predecessors have helped me gain employment in the federal government after graduation." Zachary D. Johnson L'16 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T11:09:32-04:00 Zachary D. Johnson L'16 "SPL alumni are everywhere in the national security world, and the invaluable advice and recommendations I received from my predecessors have helped me gain employment in the federal government after graduation." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19409/ Trending Issues Link "Participating in SPL has been an invaluable experience that I will carry with me throughout my career. I’ve been able to dive into trending issues in national security, such as the Internet of Things, presidential decision-making, and use of governmental powers. I recommend SPL to any student considering studying national security!" Sehseh Sanan L'21 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2021-04-19T08:48:56-04:00 Sehseh Sanan L'21 "Participating in SPL has been an invaluable experience that I will carry with me throughout my career. I’ve been able to dive into trending issues in national security, such as the Internet of Things, presidential decision-making, and use of governmental powers. I recommend SPL to any student considering studying national security!" https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/trending-issues/ Opening Doors Link "SPL has inspired my continuing education in security studies and opened doors to professional opportunities.” Ryan Lester, MPA ’16 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2018-06-22T10:42:42-04:00 Ryan Lester, MPA ’16 "SPL has inspired my continuing education in security studies and opened doors to professional opportunities.” https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/19399/ Priceless Link "Simply put, I could not imagine completing law school without SPL. The coursework, personnel, and experiences are priceless to any student who has hopes of developing a more secure nation. The courses are practical, taught by experts in the field, and the Institute offers outside the classroom experiences to further support its students." Christopher Waters L'22 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism 2021-04-14T10:53:52-04:00 Christopher Waters L'22 "Simply put, I could not imagine completing law school without SPL. The coursework, personnel, and experiences are priceless to any student who has hopes of developing a more secure nation. The courses are practical, taught by experts in the field, and the Institute offers outside the classroom experiences to further support its students." https://securitypolicylaw.syr.edu/testimonials/priceless/ 0 0 Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism Share us! Tweets by @SU_ISPL News & Headlines SPL, CSET Publish Groundbreaking AI Framework for Judges December 8, 2021 As artificial intelligence transforms the economy and American society, it will also transform the practice of law and the role of courts in regulating its use. What role should, will, or might judges play in addressing the use of AI? And relatedly, how will AI and machine learning impact judicial practice in federal and state… Militarizing Civilian Emergencies? Professor William C. Banks Interviewed for the NATO M4CE Project November 23, 2021 Professor Emeritus William C. Banks recently was interviewed as part of the M4CE Project, an initiative of the NATO Foundation for Global Governance and Sustainability, on the subject of military intervention in domestic natural and man-made emergencies: “At the Foundation for Global Governance and Sustainability (FOGGS) we appreciate the role that military personnel and equipment… Professor Mark Nevitt: Key Takeaways From the Glasgow Climate Pact November 17, 2021 (Lawfare | Nov. 17, 2021) Nearly 200 nations signed the Glasgow Climate Pact on Nov. 13. Acknowledging the increasingly strong connection between climate change and its role as a threat accelerant, the pact explicitly states that climate change is a “social, economic and environmental threat.” It also called on world leaders to “strengthen the global… Read More News 300 Dineen Hall, Syracuse University College of Law | securitypolicylaw@law.syr.edu | 315.443.2284 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy