Loading... HOME Quick Links Office of the CIO University IT Policies Anti-Virus Software UT Austin Disaster Recovery Planning (UT Ready) Acceptable Use Acknowledgement Form (for staff/faculty) Security Exception Request Stolen Equipment Report Form Engagement Request Form General Network Device Registration Hall of Fame Why You Should Work in Cybersecurity Policies Information Resources Use and Security Policy Acceptable Use Policy for University Employees Acceptable Use Policy for University Students Digital Millennium Copyright Act System Hardening Guides Policies, Standards, and Guidelines Continued *New* Minimum Security Standards Research SUPPORT TOPICS Security Awareness Compromised Credentials Education & Outreach Procedural Documentation Getting Anti-Virus Improve your Security Posture Vulnerability Management Program Report Violation Contact Search Search form Consider supporting the Cybersecurity Operations Center at The University of Texas at Austin. Donate Tools and Services Quick Links (Click the icons to be redirected) STACHE a password management service CHOMP a vulnerability management service SPLUNK a log monitoring and detection service UT Ready a disaster recovery planning service ISORA a governance, risk and compliance service Be Vigilant. Protect Your Privacy. Your privacy matters at all times. Whether it’s a government organization or a low-key hacker, someone will always be interested in not only your personal data but the devices that hold it. Click the logo button above or click one of the following buttons to learn more about protecting your data. We recommend you begin with the top 10 list. Top-10 List Social Media Phishing Passwords Malware Physical Security Privacy Updating ABOUT THE INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICE The mission of the Information Security Office (ISO), as required by state law, is to assure the security of the university's Information Technology (IT) resources and the existence of a safe computing environment in which the university community can teach, learn, and conduct research. The ISO collaborates with campus IT leaders and university audit, compliance, and legal units to support the university's teaching, research, and public service missions. Contact Us Follow The Information Security Office! Get the most relevant cyber security news, tips and tricks, and UT security updates right on your feed! Incident Management The ISO manages incident response, investigation, and reporting. This includes performing network intrusion detection and conducting forensic criminal and administrative investigations, receiving and processing security incident complaints, and overseeing recovery, and restoration for security-related events. The ISO takes permitted or required actions to protect university IT resources in consultation with appropriate executive management. Policy and Standards The ISO provides direction for university security policies and practices to protect critical resources and services and aid campus units with department security goals and compliance requirements. The ISO creates security policies and standards for approval by university leadership, and evaluate existing and emerging security-related laws, regulations, and policies for compliance goals. Management Support The ISO assists technology managers with security administration, implementation, and management. This includes testing and evaluating security technologies, advising on security related technology projects, and aiding management of security technology, with special emphasis on mission critical IT resources. Monitoring and Testing The ISO conducts institutional security testing and monitoring in support of policy enforcement and operational assurance. The ISO monitors computer and network resources for suspicious activity and test information resources for security vulnerabilities. This includes performing network intrusion detection, conducting security scanning of university computers, testing IT Web-enabled services, and conducting intelligence analysis to identify security threats. The ISO assures all departmental security monitoring and testing activities are compliant. Risk Management The ISO maintains a campus-wide information security risk management program to evaluate threats and vulnerabilities and assure creation of appropriate remediation plans. This supports for assessing security risk, creating and monitoring security plans, and aiding disaster recovery planning. Information Security Office Copyright © 2006-21, Information Security Office. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Accessibility Policy