Disaster Distress Hotline: 1-800-985-5990 Crisis Help Presented by Tulane School of Social Work Home Meditate Get Moving Connect Indulge Select Page SELF-CARE RESOURCES Provided by Tulane University School of Social Work in partnership with National Mental Health Innovation Center (NMHIC) Updates MEDITATE Take a mental break and sit quietly for a few moments. Guided Meditation Videos GET MOVING Walk around the block. Go for a bike ride. Take an online yoga class. Suggested Activities CONNECT Spend 10 minutes on the phone with a close friend. Video chat with a relative. Ways to Be Social While Distanced INDULGE Watch a movie or TV show. Create art. Play a video game. Arts & Entertainment Recommendations ADDITIONAL SELF-CARE RESOURCES  For Caregivers Tips and links for first responders, disaster responders, medical professionals, social workers, and other mental health providers.  For Parents & Teachers Parents and Teachers can help children and young adults in recognize and facilitate self-care.  For Kids These curated resources help kids practice self-care on their own or with other members of their families.  For Sleep These curated resources help kids practice self-care on their own or with other members of their families. Subscribe for Updates ABOUT TULANE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK The Tulane School of Social Work is dedicated to enhancing the well-being and equitable treatment of diverse individuals and communities through transformative education, generation of knowledge, service and community engagement. Learn More This partnership between TSSW and NMHIC curates and provides access to self-care resources for individuals during this challenging time and beyond. presented by Tulane School of Social Work in partnership with National Mental Health Innovation Center (NMHIC) Subscribe for Updates Facebook Twitter RSS © 2018 Tulane University We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok