Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments COMPASS Wednesday COMPASS Friday Department Seminar Series Environmental Science and Policy Seminars Marine Biology and Ecology Seminars Faculty Seminar Series Sea Secrets COMPASS Wednesday COMPASS Friday Department Seminar Series Faculty Seminar Series Sea Secrets Search COMPASS Wednesday COMPASS Friday Department Seminar Series Environmental Science and Policy Seminars Marine Biology and Ecology Seminars Faculty Seminar Series Sea Secrets GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Seminar Series at the Rosenstiel School Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, its departments, and its academic programs organize several seminar series with focus on different topics. Their schedules for the current semester can be found by clicking on the links below. COMPASS Wednesday Combined OCE MPO ATM Seminar Series on topics of ocean, atmosphere, and climate dynamics, usually presented by faculty members and their guests on Wednesdays. Read more COMPASS Friday Combined OCE MPO ATM Seminar Series on topics of ocean, atmosphere, and climate dynamics, usually with student seminars on Fridays. Read more Geotopics Seminar Series "Geotopics’ is the flagship seminar series organized by the Department of Marine Geosciences (MGS). Seminars are held weekly throughout the Spring and Fall academic semesters and hosted at the Rosenstiel School." Read more Marine Biology and Ecology Seminar Series Environmental Science and Policy Seminars The EVR seminar series is an effort to spark discussion and exchanges in a multidisciplinary setting. Speakers include scholars and practitioners from both the University of Miami and other institutions. Visitors are available for meetings with both students and faculty members. Read more Faculty Seminar Series Coral Gables campus location We are very excited to start our second year of the RSMAS Faculty Seminar Series!! Learn more about speakers, dates, and links to the events. Once the event becomes live you are able to register to get tickets. Read more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Seminars Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 305-421-4000 305-421-4000 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices