IE BUMPER Skip to Main MenuSkip to Content IE BUMPER Log In Log In My Menu Go to IT Self-Service Log In IT Service Requests Texas A&M University Menu Order Services Order Software My Orders My Cart IE BUMPER What are you looking for? Knowledge Base HSC Alert Emergency System Knowledge Base HSC Alert Emergency System Article: KB0019992 Published: 2020-09-10 Last modified: 2020-09-10 Overview Texas A&M Health uses the Code Maroon system for emergency alerts. For more information and instructions on signing up, please visit the Code Maroon page. HSC Alert FAQ Q: What is the purpose of the emergency alert system at Texas A&M Health? A: As mandated by Texas House Bill 2758, for the safety of faculty, staff and students, in the event of a campus emergency, a notification must be sent by using email or telephone notification and any other means the institution finds appropriate. Q: What is HB2758? A: House Bill 2758 places certain requirements upon Texas’ institutions of higher education regarding emergency alert systems. They must “establish an emergency alert system for the institution’s students and staff, including faculty.” Q: What emergency alert system will the Texas A&M Health Science Center be utilizing? A: Texas A&M Health uses TAMU's Code Maroon, powered by AtHoc, a notification system that allows designated school administrators to send time-sensitive messages to email addresses and mobile phones. Q: Why is my Texas A&M Health email address automatically added each year? A: A contact method is required by law. Q: May I add additional contact information besides my Texas A&M Health email address? A: Yes, an additional email address and a phone number may be added. Q: How much does it cost? A: The cost for email notifications is free. There may be a fee for text messaging depending on your cell phone carrier and plan Q: What will the emergency alerts tell me? A: The text messages will provide information regarding the emergency situation including but not limited to the status, actions required, and contact information to be used to get more details. The text message will typically begin with the word "EMERGENCY." Q: How many alert text messages will I receive? A: The exact number of alert messages is difficult to predict, but there should be very few. There will be occasional tests of the system, but the aim is to alert you only to emergency situations in which there is an imminent threat to public safety. You will receive messages within seconds of their transmission. If your cell phone is turned off when a text message is sent, you will receive it after you turn your cell phone on, but only if you do so within seven days from the original transmission. Q: How will my information be used? A: The personal information acquired from each individual will only be used for the purpose of emergency alerts. Q: Will my information be kept confidential? A: Yes, Texas A&M Health emergency service mobile phone numbers are not shared or sold to any other systems or services. Q: What if I change my cell phone service provider? A: When you change cell/mobile phone providers but keep your existing mobile number it is considered "ported." Depending on the mobile phone provider, it may take up to 30 days for the alert system to be updated. During the ported time period, you may not receive alerts because the alerts are sent to the previous mobile provider, which may not forward them. Q: Will I receive unsolicited messages ("spam") on my mobile phone or email account? A: No, Code Maroon enforces a "zero spam" policy that clearly prohibits unsolicited messages. Furthermore, contact information will not be made available to third-party marketers. Q: I do not want to receive alerts. Can I opt out? A: No. It is required by law to be in the emergency alert system. Article: KB0019992 Published: 2020-09-10 Last modified: 2020-09-10 Topics Accounts and ID Management Business Applications and Websites Email, Messaging and Collaboration Facilities Support General Instructional Technology Media (Print, Voice and Video) Network Professional IT Solutions Security Telecommunications Workstation Support IE BUMPER Feedback Feedback Please type feedback before submitting Your feedback has been submitted, thank you Please submit descriptive feedback after flagging an article, or it will not be modified Submit Was this helpful? Thank you Yes No Create Incident Rate this article IE BUMPER IE BUMPER Need assistance with ordering? Tell Us How We Can Help IT Self-Service Visit the sections in the new IT Self-service site Get Help Knowledge Base System Status Contact IT Chat Follow Follow @AggieITAlert on Twitter for the latest IT Alerts My NetID Account Texas A & M University Site Policies Texas A&M University