Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Title IX Office Contact Us TitleIX@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Back to Top Nav Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Back to Top Nav Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Back to Top Nav Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Student Involvement Title IX Resources 2021-2022 Share Student Involvement The Title IX Office supports student groups whose work promote the importance of sexual respect at Dartmouth. PreviousNext Sexual Assault Peer Alliance (SAPA) SAPAs are a group of Dartmouth Students invested in providing, informed, empathic, and empowerment-based support to Dartmouth students impacted by sexual and gender-based violence. They have completed a 34-hour comprehensive training program and are equipped with specialized knowledge in gender-based violence, the impact of such violence, campus resources, and providing positive, peer-advocacy support to fellow students. If you or your friends have been affected by sexual assault or intimate partner violence, the SAPAs are a trained peer resource available to help you. Email SAPA for more information. Like us on Facebook! Philosophy The philosophy of the SAPA program is based upon the following shared beliefs and values: The victim is never at fault for any assault or violence that they may encounter. Healthy sexual relationships are consensual and never coercive or exploitative. Sexual assault or intimate partner violence can happen to anyone, and sexual or intimate partner violence can be committed by anyone. Every victim is the expert in their own healing process. Sexual violence is a community issue. Training Each SAPA has completed 34 hours of training. SAPAs are required to attend two 2-hour classes a week for 7 weeks of the term and are also required to attend an all-day retreat which takes place on a weekend towards the end of the term. The training provides SAPAs with the knowledge and skills to be an informed resource to survivors of sexual and gender-based violence. SAPAs are trained to: provide compassionate response; utilize crisis intervention methods; understand medical and mental health considerations and resources; have knowledge of judicial and legal services and procedures; and talk to survivors about their various options. Training is offered 1-2 terms per year. Expectations of Active SAPAs Once training is complete, active SAPAs are expected to attend meetings as a group throughout the term where they receive booster training, debrief their experiences, plan and coordinate outreach, and continue to build community within the group of active SAPAs. Sexual Violence Prevention There are a number of ways that students can get involved with the Sexual Violence Prevention Project (SVPP) that range based on a student's area of interest, skills, and time commitment. Check-out the SVPP Get Involved page to learn more about being a Student Facilitator, member of the Student Advisory Board, Internships, and more! For questions, email SVPP@Dartmouth.edu Student and Presidential Committee on Sexual Assault (SPCSA) The purpose of SPCSA is to serve as an intermediary between students and the larger Dartmouth College community including the administration, faculty, and alumni of the college. One of the main functions of the SPCSA is to plan and implement cross-campus initiatives to address sexual violence, including but not limited to: advising the administration and student groups about sexual assault; engaging faculty; and promoting community-wide programs. We also aim to enhance the effectiveness of and communication between other working groups and individuals. Learn more about the SPCSA Main menu Dartmouth College Sexual Respect About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Ribbon Footer People Assistant Vice President for Equity and Compliance and Title IX Coordinator Kristi Clemens M.Ed. titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 9850 Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Response Gary Sund titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 3153 Find Us Address Title IX Office Parkhurst Hall 14 North Main St, Hanover NH 03755 Room 005 Hinman Box 6004 Hanover, NH 03755 603 646 0922 titleix@dartmouth.edu Link to our location on the campus map Phone: 603 646 0922 HB: HB 6004 Email: TitleIX@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback