Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Title IX Office Contact Us TitleIX@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Back to Top Nav Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Back to Top Nav Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Back to Top Nav Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Student Involvement Title IX Resources 2021-2022 Share Online Training - FAQ's Faculty and Staff training program - Frequently Asked Questions FAQ's Why have I not heard of this training before? President Hanlon announced this training as part of the Campus Climate and Culture Initiative (C3I) as the third pillar in a set of initiatives established to create a more welcoming, inclusive, and equitable environment for all Dartmouth students, faculty, and staff on 1/3/2019. Building Supportive Communities consists of interactive slides and short videos providing education on sexual harassment and violence prevention in a campus environment. This training is required every two years, even if you have participated in another training recently. Why do I have to complete this training? As part of the Measurable Actions of the Campus Climate and Culture Initiative (C3I), the mandatory Title IX training began immediately. All faculty, staff, post-doctoral scholars, and graduate and professional students are now required to complete an online sexual violence prevention program. This training is in addition to the Sexual Violence Prevention Project, a four-year education program for undergraduates, and builds on the work we are doing to advance an effective training program for every member of our campus community. I work for the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center. Why do I need to complete this training? The training is designed for all Dartmouth College faculty and staff, including Dartmouth Hitchcock employees who have a faculty appointment at the Geisel School of Medicine. I don't have time for online training, what should I do? The training takes approximately 45 minutes to two hours of your time and may be saved and returned to at your convenience. Training must be completed by the due date you have been given. What should I do if I am having trouble accessing the training online? Should you need technical support, please go to: https://everfihelp.force.com/foundry/s/topic/0TO3g000000PD1lGAG/foundry-course-issues or use the chat function. EVERFI courses are no longer be supported on the Internet Explorer browser. See the Minimum System Requirements for more information. If you need to find your Dartmouth NetID, please go to: https://lookup.dartmouth.edu/ If you need help with your password, please go to: https://dartdm.dartmouth.edu/dartDM/dartDM If you need further assistance, please contact your department's IT Helpdesk at the appropriate number below. Dartmouth College employees/faculty/students: 603 646 2999 Geisel School of Medicine employees/faculty/students, including Dartmouth Hitchcock employees : 603 650 1600 Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies employees/faculty/students: 603 646 2999 Thayer School of Engineering employees/faculty/students: 603 646 0855 Tuck School of Business employees/faculty/students: 603 646 1818 The training module seems to be "stuck" what can I do? If the Next button is not highlighted, you will need to review the slide for additional action items. The course is interactive and you will need to look for indications of what to do next (move the mouse over the page and click on anything that gets highlighted). It is easiest to do this when your window is expanded to the full screen. If you are confident you have clicked all the action items on the slide, and you are still not able to move forward, please clear your browser's cache. Also, make sure your pop-up blocker is turned off and 3rd party cookies are enabled. If you need further assistance, please use the chat function. How did you get my name? All faculty, staff, post-doctoral scholars, and graduate and professional students, including Dartmouth Hitchcock employees who have a faculty appointment at the Geisel School of Medicine are required to complete an online sexual violence prevention program and as such have all been emailed the link to the training program. I recently retired, do I still need to complete the training program? Please be in touch with us at TitleIX@dartmouth.edu I plan to retire at the end of this academic year. Do I still need to complete the training program? If you are teaching currently, you must complete the training. I work at Dartmouth Hitchcock, and don't know my Dartmouth NetID, how can I complete the training? If you need to find your Dartmouth NetID, please go to: https://lookup.dartmouth.edu/ If you need help with your password, please go to: https://dartdm.dartmouth.edu/dartDM/dartDM If you need further assistance, please contact the Geisel School of Medicine IT helpdesk at: 603 650 1600 I am a survivor of sexual assault and completing this training is difficult for me. What should I do? Please be in touch with our office at titleix@dartmouth.edu and we will make alternative arrangements. I work in a cubicle and can't play the audio; can I still complete the training? The training doesn't not need to be played via an audio system, all the words are also printed on the screen for you to read. I work part-time. Do I have to complete this training in work time? You should complete the training in paid work time. Please discuss with your supervisor if you have any issues with finding time to complete this training. The training takes approximately 45 minutes to two hours of your time and may be saved and returned to at your convenience. Training must be completed by the due date you have been given. Main menu Dartmouth College Sexual Respect About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Ribbon Footer People Assistant Vice President for Equity and Compliance and Title IX Coordinator Kristi Clemens M.Ed. titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 9850 Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Response Gary Sund titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 3153 Find Us Address Title IX Office Parkhurst Hall 14 North Main St, Hanover NH 03755 Room 005 Hinman Box 6004 Hanover, NH 03755 603 646 0922 titleix@dartmouth.edu Link to our location on the campus map Phone: 603 646 0922 HB: HB 6004 Email: TitleIX@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback