Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Title IX & Sexual Harassment Key Definitions Resources Reporting Title IX Policies Education & Initiatives Title IX Office 24/7 Help Close menu Title IX and Sexual Harassment Providence College is committed to maintaining an environment in which all students, staff and faculty are treated with dignity and respect, as created in the image and likeness of God. Sexual misconduct in all forms violates the sanctity of the human body, mind, and spirit and will not be tolerated within our community. Indeed, sexual misconduct (including sexual assault/rape) is one of the most serious violations of the standards of conduct for Providence College, and some forms of sexual misconduct are also violations of criminal law. The College strongly encourages anyone who has information regarding a possible incident to report it to the Office of Public Safety or a Title IX Coordinator, as well as to local law enforcement. Generally, all employees, except for those designated as confidential resources, are mandated reporters and must report such information when the incident involves any student. Reports should be made at the earliest possible time and within 24 hours. All supervisors, directors, managers, and human resources professionals have a responsibility to report all relevant details about an incident where either the complainant or the respondent is an employee. Reports should be made at the earliest possible time and within 24 hours. All students, staff, and faculty are responsible for being familiar with, and abiding by, the College’s standards of conduct. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.” For Title IX Coordinator contact information, please click here. Notice of Non-Discrimination If You Believe You Have Experienced Sexual Harassment/Sexual Misconduct If You Have Been Accused of Perpetrating Sexual Harassment/Sexual Misconduct How to Report Sexual Harassment/Sexual Misconduct How to Support a Friend Who Believes They Have Experienced Sexual Harassment/Sexual Misconduct 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site