Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sexual Respect Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Get Help and Support Title IX University Policy Sexual Respect Initiative Get Involved Learn More How to Get Help Off-Campus Resources Confidentiality Pregnant Students About Title IX Columbia's Title IX Coordinator Title IX FAQs University Policy for Gender-based Misconduct and Title IX Procedures Your Rights Summary of New York State "Enough is Enough" bill Confidentiality Policy Pregnancy Accommodations About the Sexual Respect Initiative FAQs Workshops How to Participate Training for Student Leaders & Athletes Workshops Online Documentaries Online Tutorials Online Video Collections Independent Projects Resources for Healing and Resilience Feedback Ways to Get Involved Presidential Advisory Committee on Sexual Assault Terms and Definitions Reports and Research Faculty and Staff Sexual Respect You are here: Home University Policy Summary of New York State "Enough is Enough" bill Summary of New York State "Enough is Enough" bill Read the full text here. The “Enough is Enough” Senate bill was signed into New York State law on July 7, 2015. Its purpose is to require all colleges and universities in the State of New York to implement uniform definitions of prohibited behavior, and prevention and response policies/procedures relating to sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking that impact students on and off campus. Enough Is Enough sets out the following guidelines under the definition of Sexual Assault: Expand all Collapse all Statewide Uniform Definition of Affirmative Consent to Sexual Activity: "Affirmative consent is a knowing, voluntary and mutual decision among all participants to engage in sexual activity. Consent can be given by words or actions, as long as those words or actions create clear permission regarding willingness to engage in the sexual activity. Silence or lack of resistance, in and of itself, does not demonstrate consent. The definition of consent does not vary based upon a participant's sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression." Consent to Any Sexual Act or Prior Consensual Sexual Activity: Between or with any party does not necessarily constitute consent to any other sexual act. Consent is required regardless of whether the person initiating the act is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol. Consent may be initially given but withdrawn at any time. Consent cannot be given when a person is incapacitated, which occurs when an individual lacks the ability to knowingly choose to participate in sexual activity. Incapacitation may be caused by the lack of consciousness or being asleep, being involuntarily restrained, or if an individual otherwise cannot consent. Depending on the degree of intoxication, someone who is under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or other intoxicants may be incapacitated and therefore unable to consent. Consent cannot be given when it is the result of any coercion, intimidation, force, or threat of harm. When consent is withdrawn or can no longer be given, sexual activity must stop. Alcohol and/or Drug Use Amnesty: Bystanders or victims that report, in good faith, any incident of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking, will not be charged with an alcohol or drug use violation of the institution's code of conduct. Students' Bill of Rights: Requires that an institution adopt and implement a "Students' Bill of Rights" as part of its code of conduct. The Bill of Rights shall include, but is not limited to, the opportunity to report a sexual assault to law enforcement or the institution, or not to report, to be protected from retaliation, and to access services and resources. The Bill of Rights shall be distributed widely to students and college community members and shall be sent electronically to students at least once annually. Response to Reports: Institutions must notify students about rights and resources available to them and how the institution will respond to reports of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking. In addition, victims will receive a short statement of their rights at the first instance of disclosure of a sexual assault: "You have the right to make a report to university police or campus security, local law enforcement, and/or state police or choose not to report; to report the incident to your institution; to be protected by the institution from retaliation for reporting an incident; and to receive assistance and resources from your institution." Campus Climate Assessments: Campus climate assessments must be conducted at least once every other year and must be developed using standard and commonly recognized research methods. Answers to such surveys remain anonymous and no individual respondent is identified. High-level results of such surveys must be posted on the institution’s website provided that no personally identifiable information shall be shared. Options for Confidential Disclosure: Institutions must use plain language when notifying students about the laws surrounding confidentiality and privacy, listing confidential and private resources that students can reach out to, and providing technical information about how institutions will respond to requests for confidentiality. Student Onboarding and Ongoing Education Campaign: Institutions must develop and implement a year-round, ongoing campaign on sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking education and prevention. Privacy in Legal Challenges to Conduct Findings: Unless there is a waiver or court determination, a student's identifying information is deemed confidential and shall not be included in any proceedings brought against an institution seeking to vacate or modify a finding that a student was responsible for violating the institution's rules. Reporting Aggregate Data to the State Education Department: Institutions must annually report aggregate data and information about reports of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault. This shall include the total number of reports received, open and closed investigations, outcomes of such investigations, and penalties imposed on perpetrators. Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close