Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Title IX Office Contact Us TitleIX@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Back to Top Nav Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Back to Top Nav Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Back to Top Nav Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Title IX Resources 2021-2022 Dartmouth Bystander Initiative (DBI) Sexual Violence Prevention Project (SVPP) Share Training & Workshops Dartmouth offers innovative, community-engaged workshops and programs that advance understandings of sexual respect and gender equality and educate our campus community about sexual or gender-based harassment, sexual assault, sexual exploitation, dating or domestic violence and stalking. For more information please contact: Title IX titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 0922 005 Parkhurst Hanover NH 03784 Contact the Title IX Office to schedule a workshop. PreviousNext Strengthening Our Response to Sexual Misconduct Workshop What is Title IX and how does it apply to sexual misconduct? How do we respond compassionately when a colleague or student discloses some form of sexual misconduct? This workshop focuses on the role faculty and staff play in preventing and addressing sexual or gender-based harassment, sexual assault, sexual exploitation, relationship & interpersonal violence or stalking on campus. Participants learn and practice culturally responsive, trauma-informed strategies on how to support those who have been affected by sexual misconduct. This workshop also helps participants to identify the challenges and barriers that survivors/Reporting Persons/Complainants and Responding Persons may face when seeking resources and support. Participants acquire knowledge of available on and off-campus resources, including advocacy, medical, and legal services. For information about workshops please contact the Title IX Office via email or call 603 646 0922. Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Program The Rape Aggression Defense Course was developed to empower women through self-defense. The RAD Systems objective is “to develop and enhance the options of self-defense, so they may become viable considerations to the woman who is attacked.” This course includes crime prevention/risk reduction techniques, voice commands, and basic self-defense techniques. The program also has a lifelong self-defense return policy that allows the women to return to a RAD class anytime, with any instructor, anywhere, free of charge for a lifetime of practice. Students may receive physical education credit for participating in the RAD course. Dartmouth has sponsored the RAD program since 1995, offering Basic RAD and Advanced RAD courses. For more information or to sign up for the course, please contact one of the instructors through the Department of Safety and Security at (603) 646-4000. The department has 3 trained instructors: Sgt. Rebel Roberts offers Basic, Advanced, and Keychain courses. She is also a radKIDS instructor. Sgt. Roberts as the Vermont Rape Aggression Defense State Director. Sgt. Greg Timmins and Audrey Ranieri offer Basic courses. Main menu Dartmouth College Sexual Respect About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Ribbon Footer People Assistant Vice President for Equity and Compliance and Title IX Coordinator Kristi Clemens M.Ed. titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 9850 Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Response Gary Sund titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 3153 Find Us Address Title IX Office Parkhurst Hall 14 North Main St, Hanover NH 03755 Room 005 Hinman Box 6004 Hanover, NH 03755 603 646 0922 titleix@dartmouth.edu Link to our location on the campus map Phone: 603 646 0922 HB: HB 6004 Email: TitleIX@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback