Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Sexual Misconduct Resources Information for Victims Ways to Report Confidential Reporting Formal Complaints Informal Complaints Reporting to Police Reporting to Temple's Administration Policies Preventing and Addressing Sexual Misconduct Sexual Harassment Student Conduct Code University Employees Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Definitions Consent Domestic Violence Relationship Abuse and Violence Sexual Assault Sexual Exploitation Sexual Harassment Sexual Misconduct Stalking Clery Act Campus Security Authority Statistics Annual Crime Statistics Security & Fire Safety Report Prevention Initiatives Committee Report It's on Us Campaign ≡ Menu Information for Victims Ways to Report Confidential Reporting Formal Complaints Informal Complaints Reporting to Police Reporting to Temple's Administration Policies Preventing and Addressing Sexual Misconduct Sexual Harassment Student Conduct Code University Employees Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Definitions Consent Domestic Violence Relationship Abuse and Violence Sexual Assault Sexual Exploitation Sexual Harassment Sexual Misconduct Stalking Clery Act Campus Security Authority Statistics Annual Crime Statistics Security & Fire Safety Report Prevention Initiatives Committee Report It's on Us Campaign If you are reporting a crime in progress or require emergency service, call 911 or 1-1234 (215-204-1234) immediately. Temple University is committed to preventing and addressing sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, harassment and stalking. Sexual assault can threaten a person's safety, well-being, educational experience and career. Temple University will not tolerate sexual assault. The university seeks to achieve an environment at Temple that is both free of sexual assault and consistent with constitutional protections and personal freedoms. Temple encourages members of the university community to promptly and accurately report all criminal actions; to utilize the university’s sexual misconduct education and prevention programs; and to understand the policies, procedures and disciplinary sanctions associated with sexual misconduct. Report an Incident See ways to report information and get help. Sexual Misconduct Reporting Form More information Resources Learn more about on-campus and community resources for those affected by sexual misconduct. More information Prevention Initiatives Findings from Temple’s Presidential Committee on Campus Sexual Misconduct. More information Temple University 1801 N. Broad St Philadelphia, PA 19121 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions TUMail TUPortal Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright Temple University. All rights reserved.