Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Title IX Office Contact Us TitleIX@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Back to Top Nav Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Back to Top Nav Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Back to Top Nav Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Share Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 The Sexual Misconduct Survey closed on March 17, 2022. The results of the survey will be posted here. We remain committed to confronting sexual and gender-based harassment and misconduct on our campus, and in order to address those behaviors and the climates that perpetuate them, we must better understand our own challenges. Engaging in regular climate surveys is one way that we can capture this information while preserving anonymity. To view past surveys please go to: 2021 Survey 2017 Survey 2015 Survey 2022 Sexual Misconduct Survey - FAQ's What is this survey? This survey was provided by the New Hampshire Task Force established under RSA 188, and is required by the Task Force to be used by all New Hampshire Institutions of Higher Education. The survey seeks to understand prevalence of sexual and gender-based misconduct on our campus. There are also questions about your knowledge of and engagement with campus resources. Didn't we just do this last year? Yes. However, the New Hampshire specific law went into effect just before we launched that survey, and the "base set" of questions required by the state was not ready for us to include in our survey. Why should I complete the survey? It's important to understand the experiences that the Dartmouth community has had with sexual and gender-based misconduct, even if they have chosen not to report to the Title IX Coordinators. The survey results will inform the practices of the Title IX Coordinators, the Sexual Violence Prevention Project, and a number of other areas of campus committed to reducing sexual and gender-based harassment and violence. What if I haven't experienced any sexual or gender-based misconduct? Should I still fill it out? Absolutely. The more people within our community who complete the survey, the more accurate the results will be. Is this really confidential? Yes. Nothing that you disclose in the survey will be attributed to your DartID in any way. Your responses are voluntary and confidential. Responses will analyzed and reported in aggregate. What happens to the information collected? The data will be shared in aggregate with the community. Please see the reports linked above. Does responding to the survey mean that I am making a report to the Title IX Coordinator? No. Disclosures made in the survey are not considered reports to the Title IX Coordinators. If you wish to meet with the Title IX Coordinators to make a report or discuss your options, please email titleix@dartmouth.edu for an appointment. How long will the survey take? It should only take about 15 minutes of your time. I don't have a computer. Can I take the survey on my phone? Yes. The survey can be accessed on a mobile device. Do I have to take this survey? It is voluntary, but we hope you will consider the importance of sharing your experience with our office. The best climate surveys have a wide variety of respondents with different experiences, so we hope you will take part! Main menu Dartmouth College Sexual Respect About About the Title IX Office Syllabus Statement Title IX Annual Report People News Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Update Regarding Executive Order Get Help Now Reporting & Support Report an Incident Title IX Formal Complaint Form Know Your Rights - Know Your Options Title IX Resources Get Help in an Emergency Surveys Quick Reference Guides Resources for Responsible Employees Compliance Title IX About Title IX Coordinator Pregnancy and Parenting Policies & Procedures Definitions Archived Title IX Policies and Procedures Sexual Misconduct Survey 2022 Training Faculty and Staff Online Training Program Training & Workshops Faculty Training Training attended by Title IX Staff Training attended by Investigators, Hearing Panels and Appellate Bodies Training for Responsible Employees New Student Orientation Presentations Student Involvement Ribbon Footer People Assistant Vice President for Equity and Compliance and Title IX Coordinator Kristi Clemens M.Ed. titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 9850 Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Response Gary Sund titleix@dartmouth.edu 603 646 3153 Find Us Address Title IX Office Parkhurst Hall 14 North Main St, Hanover NH 03755 Room 005 Hinman Box 6004 Hanover, NH 03755 603 646 0922 titleix@dartmouth.edu Link to our location on the campus map Phone: 603 646 0922 HB: HB 6004 Email: TitleIX@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback