Skip to main content | San Francisco Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Site Search Home About San Francisco Regional CouncilOther Regions About Toggle Dropdown San Francisco Regional CouncilOther Regions Events Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Admissions Toggle Dropdown Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Alumni Alumni ProfilesNorthern California Alumni Club Alumni Toggle Dropdown Alumni ProfilesNorthern California Alumni Club Giving Contact Us Toggle navigation Home AboutToggle Dropdown for About San Francisco Regional CouncilOther Regions Events AdmissionsToggle Dropdown for Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact AlumniToggle Dropdown for Alumni Alumni ProfilesNorthern California Alumni Club Giving Contact Us Home /Admissions Admissions This is an exciting time to attend Syracuse University! Syracuse University is home to 14,500 undergraduate students from all 50 states and over 120 countries. More than 200 Syracuse University students hail from the Bay Area alone! This is a particularly exciting time to be a Syracuse University student. Opportunities to learn “for the world, in the world” are bigger and better than ever, with new academic programs, high-tech facilities like Newhouse 3 and the Life Sciences Complex, and immersion programs in locations across the country and around the world. Students can select from more than 200 majors and 100 minors offered at 11 schools and colleges, the student/teacher ratio is 16:1, and the average class size is just 25 students. Click on any of the links below to learn more about attending Syracuse University! Undergraduate admissions Graduate school Academics Student life Visit campus Apply to Syracuse University Admitted Student Events Get a taste of Syracuse University without leaving home The best way to decide whether a particular college is the right choice for you is by visiting in person. But if you’re not able to travel to Syracuse, the Bay Area is home to a vibrant community that bleeds Orange—and we invite you to attend an admitted student program nearby. It’s your chance to learn all about the Syracuse University family from local alumni, parents, and friends. Admitted student events are hosted by a senior Office of Admissions staff member, offering admitted students and their families an opportunity to learn more about academic and student life at Syracuse University. Learn more about admitted student events Admissions Contact Camille Crites G'14 Associate Director of Admissions, Southern California 818.561.7375 ccrites@syr.edu About Camille Camille graduated with a bachelor's degree in international relations and economics from the University of California at Davis and earned a master's degree from the Syracuse University Maxwell School of Public Affairs and Citizenship. She moved to Florence, Italy in 1985 and began a career in import/export with the Macy's buying office. She joined Syracuse University in Florence in 1990, and held a number of positions, including summer programs coordinator, field trip co-coordinator, partner school liaison, events coordinator, academic advisor and registrar. In 2011, she was promoted to assistant director for academics, which includes academic program development. She has represented Syracuse University at high school fairs in Italy since 2010. She was named to her current position in October 2014. Peter Hagan '03 Associate Director of Admissions 315.443.1595 pjhagan@syr.edu About Peter Peter joined Syracuse University’s admissions staff in 2003, shortly after graduation. A frequent speaker and panelist on issues of college admission at schools nationwide, he oversees recruitment from several regions in the United States, coordinates events for prospective students, and works with students and alumni who volunteer to support the Office of Admissions. He lives in Fayetteville, New York, with his wife Karina G’08, assistant director of residence life at Syracuse University, and their two sons. In This Section Admissions Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Admissions Contact Footer Section Syracuse University San Francisco Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, NY 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.247.6978 Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Make a Gift San Francisco Links Upcoming Events Admissions Planned Giving Give Now Contact Us Sitemap Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Syracuse University Alumni Syracuse University Admissions Syracuse University News Athletics Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. All rights reserved. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top