Skip to main content | San Francisco Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Site Search Home About San Francisco Regional CouncilOther Regions About Toggle Dropdown San Francisco Regional CouncilOther Regions Events Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Admissions Toggle Dropdown Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact Alumni Alumni ProfilesNorthern California Alumni Club Alumni Toggle Dropdown Alumni ProfilesNorthern California Alumni Club Giving Contact Us Toggle navigation Home AboutToggle Dropdown for About San Francisco Regional CouncilOther Regions Events AdmissionsToggle Dropdown for Admissions Prospective Student EventsAdmitted Student EventsAdmissions Contact AlumniToggle Dropdown for Alumni Alumni ProfilesNorthern California Alumni Club Giving Contact Us Home /Alumni Alumni We have 5,000 reasons to love the Bay Area There are more than 5,000 people in the San Francisco Bay Area who got their start at Syracuse University. Armed with their degrees and shaped by their experiences on and off the Syracuse University campus, our alumni are making a difference, finding success, and supporting Syracuse University in northern California and beyond. Read more about how the Syracuse University Alumni Association can help you stay connected. Join the Syracuse University Alumni Club of San Francisco If you’re looking for Orange in the City by the Bay, you can find it! The Syracuse University Alumni Club of San Francisco has hundreds of active members and hosts dozens of events throughout the year. Syracuse University alumni clubs around the world draw thousands of grads together to enjoy a wide variety of social and educational programming. Events range from faculty speakers to career networking opportunities, to game-watching events and evenings at the theater. Join our Facebook page and keep up with Syracuse University news from the Bay Area! Attend an Event Events are a great way to network with alumni, family, and friends in the area! The Office of Alumni Engagement, schools and colleges, and campus partners all plan a full calendar of events in the area. Be sure to check out our Career and Professional Development events! Get Social Follow Syracuse University in the Bay Area on social to stay up to date with events, updates from campus, and so much more! Syracuse University in the Bay Area Social Media Syracuse University Alumni Club of San Francisco Facebook: @NorCalOrange Syracuse University Alumni Club of San Francisco Twitter: @SUNorCalOrange For a more complete list of social networking and media platforms, go to Syracuse University’s Social Media Directory. Stay Connected Syracuse University Alumni Website The ’Cuse Community is Syracuse University’s original social network. Need to update your address, e-mail, or current employment? Want to search for college friends, submit a class note, or read about your fellow classmates? Join today—membership is free and exclusive to Syracuse University alumni! ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts The ’Cuse Conversations Podcast, hosted by John Boccacino ’03, Chris Velardi ’95 and the Office of Alumni Engagement communications team, allows listeners to hear directly from the talented and outstanding Syracuse University alumni who are making a difference in their communities, as well as current students and faculty members. Young Alumni Engagement Are you an Alum who graduated within the last 10 years? Then you're part of Generation Orange! Being GenO means that you get special discounts on Office of Alumni Engagement events and unique opportunities for special programs designed to help you on your emerging life and career post 'Cuse! Learn more about Generation Orange programs. Volunteer Interesting in volunteering? Fill out the volunteer form and we will get back to you. Career Services Just because you're not a student doesn't mean you can't utilize Syracuse University's vast Career Services network! Learn all the ways we can help you advance your career. Be sure to check out our Career and Professional Development events! Update Your Info We love to hear from you and all you're doing in the area as we look to connect students and alumni within this Orange network. The best way to make sure you can connect for mentoring or hiring opportunities. Update your information on Cuse Community! Have a Cuse Community Account or want to get one? Go to cusecommunity.syr.edu, and click "Sign In." If you want to set up an account, click First Time Login. Don't want a Cuse Community Account but still want to update? Go to alumniupdate.syr.edu and update your address so we know you're in the area! We'll start sending you information on regional programs! Give to the Part of Syracuse University that Means the Most to You Do you want to ensure that students today get the same or even better Orange experiences you had when at 'Cuse? Consider making a gift to the part of Syracuse University that means the most to you. In This Section Alumni Alumni Profiles San Francisco Alumni Club Update Your Info Footer Section Syracuse University San Francisco Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, NY 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.247.6978 Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Make a Gift San Francisco Links Upcoming Events Admissions Planned Giving Give Now Contact Us Sitemap Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Syracuse University Alumni Syracuse University Admissions Syracuse University News Athletics Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. All rights reserved. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top