Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Bills & Payments Bills & Payments Other Ways to Pay Monthly Payment Plan Bills & Payments Overview Getting Started Bills & Payments Basics Billing Schedule Logging into SSOL Authorizing a Payer Your Account Statement Paying Your Bill Options for Managing Payments Unpaid Bills Other Ways to Pay Online Check Mail Wire Payment Plan Sponsored Students Tuition Exemption AmeriCorps Awards College Savings Plans Getting Refunds Credit Balances and Refunds Stipend Awards Direct Deposit For Parents For Administrators Monthly Payment Plan On This Page: How To Sign Up | Cost | Payment Methods | Plan Availability | Estimating Your Payments | Monthly Plan Features | Contact Us | Sign-Up Dates and Schedule Payment Plan Columbia offers a monthly payment plan to enable you to pay tuition and fees over several months, rather than in one payment. You can sign up for the fall semester beginning in July. Columbia offers this plan through the Nelnet service provider, which is integrated with the monthly E-Bill. The payment plan is not a loan. If you are using the payment plan and also borrowing private student loans, you have the right and ability to select the education loan provider of your choice, free from penalty. You are not required to use any lender promulgated by the payment plan provider. While there is a modest, non-refundable application fee charged by Nelnet, there are no interest charges or credit checks. The Payment Plan is available for the Fall term, Spring term, the annual academic year plan (Fall & Spring), or Summer term. Please note that a late fee is not assessed when students are on a monthly payment plan. Students who are allowed to register because they are on a payment plan or because they have made a payment will have that registration reversed if the payment is canceled or unable to be completed due to lack of funds. How to Sign Up STUDENTS 1. Log in to Student Services Online (SSOL) and click on “Account Detail and E-Billing.” 2. Click on “View E-Bill and Use the Monthly Payment Plan.” AUTHORIZED PAYERS 1. Go to the secure e-billing website and log in with the username and password set up by your student. 2. Select the "Payment Plan" option from the menu on the left side of the page. To Top Cost $45 annual enrollment fee $25 enrollment fee per term (Fall, Spring, & Summer terms) $30 returned payment fee if a payment is returned To Top Payment Methods Automatic bank payment (ACH) Note that a credit or debit card may be used to pay the enrollment fee. (An additional convenience fee will be assessed.) To Top Plan Availability The payment plan is available June 8 each academic year. Students may choose to sign up for one of the following options: Fall Term: August - December Spring Term: January - May Annual (Fall and Spring Terms): August - May Summer Term: June - July* Note: Summer Term plan enrollment begins on May 1. To Top Estimating Your Budget and Monthly Payments Tuition and Fees for each new academic year are approved and posted by July. You will have the opportunity to adjust your budget if you are adding and dropping classes. When estimating, remember to also subtract financial aid awards and outside scholarships, add any Housing, Dining, or other fees, and take into account any sponsored payments or outside scholarship you may expect. To Top Monthly Payment Plan Features Automatic Rebalance of Amount in Payment Plan: If your term bill amount changes, the system will automatically recalculate your new total amount, as well as your updated monthly payment amount. This automatic recalculation will happen twice per term. You and any authorized payers will receive an automated email notification once the account is rebalanced. Manual Rebalance of Amount in Payment Plan: After you have signed up for the payment plan, if you anticipate a payment from a source not listed in your E-Bill, for example a sponsored payment or outside scholarship, you can adjust the amount budgeted for your payment plan by logging in to the E-Bill and updating the total amount you wish to pay via the plan. The system will recalculate your monthly payment based on your changes. To Top Contact Information NELNET Telephone: 1-888-470-6014 Hours: Monday through Friday 8:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Student Service Center Telephone: 212-854-4400 Hours: Monday through Friday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. To Top Sign-Up Dates and Schedule Columbia’s payment plan is flexible and offers three options: Fall Term Only Spring Term Only Annual / Academic Year (Fall and Spring Terms) - For plan management purposes, the Annual plan is considered as two separate plans, one for the Fall term and the other for the Spring. The percentages collected during late enrollment in the Fall term only apply to the balance established for the Fall term. Summer Term Only Note: Payments are automatically deducted on the 5th of every month from the bank account you authorized during sign-up. FALL TERM PLAN 5 Payments, $25 enrollment fee. Plan enrollment closes after November 26. Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Months of Payments June 1 - August 3 none 5 August - December August 4 - August 27 20% 4 September - December August 28 - September 24 40% 3 October - December September 25 - October 27 60% 2 November & December October 28 - November 14 80% 1 December SPRING TERM PLAN 5 Payments, $25 enrollment fee. Plan enrollment closes after April 24. Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Months of Payments November 15 – December 31 none 5 January - May January 1 - January 27 20% 4 February - May January 28 - February 24 40% 3 March - May February 25 - March 25 60% 2 April & May March 26 - April 26 80% 1 May ANNUAL / ACADEMIC YEAR PLAN (Fall and Spring Terms): 10 Payments, $45 enrollment fee. Plan enrollment closes after November 25. For plan management purposes, the Annual plan is considered as two separate plans, one for the Fall term and the other for the Spring. The percentages collected during late enrollment in the Fall term only apply to the balance established for the Fall term. Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Months of Payments June 1 - August 3 none 10 August - May August 4 - August 27 20% * 9 September - May August 28 - September 24 40% * 8 October - May September 25 - October 27 60% * 7 November - May October 28 - November 14 80% * 6 December - May * This percentage is based on the amount dedicated to the Fall term portion of the payment plan. SUMMER TERM PLAN 2 Payments, $25 enrollment fee. Plan enrollment closes on June 25. Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Months of Payments May 1 - June 4 none 2 June - July June 5 - June 25 50% 1 July To Top Back: < Paying Your Bill Next: Unpaid Bills > Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York