Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Student Financial Services About Contact Us Appointments SFS Webinars Apply Steps to Financial Aid Transfer Students Graduate Students Non-Matriculated Students International Students Study Abroad Temple University Japan Campus Summer Financial Aid Helpful Website Links Financial Aid Types Scholarships Grants Educational Loans Federal Work Study Tuition Remission Veterans Benefits Basic Needs Tuition and Billing Forms Policies Consumer Information Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act FAQs ≡ Menu About Contact Us Appointments SFS Webinars Apply Steps to Financial Aid Transfer Students Graduate Students Non-Matriculated Students International Students Study Abroad Temple University Japan Campus Summer Financial Aid Helpful Website Links Financial Aid Types Scholarships Grants Educational Loans Federal Work Study Tuition Remission Veterans Benefits Basic Needs Tuition and Billing Forms Policies Consumer Information Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act FAQs You are here Home Apply Apply To apply for financial aid you need to complete the Free Application for Financial Aid (FAFSA). This is the only action required to apply for most financial aid at Temple University. There are some scholarships and non-Pennsylvania state grants that require separate applications. Visit the Financial Aid Types section of our website for more information. We encourage all students to apply for financial aid. Many students also may find that they need support beyond financial aid in order to afford food, utilities, and other basic needs. You may be eligible for programs that reduce your expenses and/or help you cover them. To explore these options, we encourage you to call BenePhilly at 1-844-848-4376, download MyCompass PA app, or visit COMPASS.state.pa.us. If you pay for utility bills, consider signing up for the gas and electric savings programs to help reduce costs. When you call, remember that for many programs only the income of your household matters—not your parents’ household—and often financial aid does not count as income. Steps to Financial Aid Reviewing the financial aid steps will help to ensure that you understand all of the factors involved in receiving and retaining financial aid. Transfer Students If you plan to transfer to Temple University, you'll need to update your FAFSA and notify your current school in order to make a smooth transition. Learn more. Non-Matriculated Students Students taking required courses in order to matriculate into a degree program or for required PA teacher certification may have Federal Direct Loan eligibility. Learn more. International Students Resources are available to help international students pursue an education at Temple University. Study Abroad Did you know that you may be eligible to receive financial aid for education abroad programs? Temple University Japan Campus (TUJ) Federal financial aid is available to students admitted directly to TUJ. In This Section Steps to Financial Aid Transfer Students Graduate Students Non-Matriculated Students International Students Study Abroad Temple University Japan Campus Summer Financial Aid Helpful Website Links FEDERAL SCHOOL CODE: 003371 Temple University, Philadelphia, PA Temple University Student Financial Services Mailing Address: 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 All payments must be sent to the Bursar’s Office. Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact SFS Quick Links: Bursar's Office Financial Literacy Registrar's Office TUportal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers At Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved.