Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Student Financial Services About Contact Us Appointments SFS Webinars Apply Steps to Financial Aid Transfer Students Graduate Students Non-Matriculated Students International Students Study Abroad Temple University Japan Campus Summer Financial Aid Helpful Website Links Financial Aid Types Scholarships Grants Educational Loans Federal Work Study Tuition Remission Veterans Benefits Basic Needs Tuition and Billing Forms Policies Consumer Information Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act FAQs ≡ Menu About Contact Us Appointments SFS Webinars Apply Steps to Financial Aid Transfer Students Graduate Students Non-Matriculated Students International Students Study Abroad Temple University Japan Campus Summer Financial Aid Helpful Website Links Financial Aid Types Scholarships Grants Educational Loans Federal Work Study Tuition Remission Veterans Benefits Basic Needs Tuition and Billing Forms Policies Consumer Information Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act FAQs File your FAFSA File your FAFSA Complete the 2022-2023 FAFSA beginning October 1st for the upcoming school year. Temple's priority deadline for grant funding is February 1st. Learn more Now you can get in line to visit SFS via your phone! Now you can get in line to visit SFS via your phone! Students/Parents can now join the Student Financial Services queue remotely from your phone. Download the Qless App to get expected wait time information prior to visiting the office. Join Our Virtual Line! Home Steps to Financial Aid Eligibility Determination Students must meet certain eligibility requirements to receive and retain financial aid & complete all Financial Aid requirements within the SFS dashboard. Understanding Your Aid Offer Financial aid offers are available in the student's TUportal. Financial Aid Types Temple University offers scholarships, grants, loans and work-study to eligible students. Complete the FAFSA All students seeking financial aid at Temple University should complete the FAFSA beginning October 1st IMPORTANT INFORMATION Temple University FAFSA Code: 003371 Coronavirus and Forbearance Info for Student Borrowers and Parents. Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) waiver. Access the SFS webinar series videos, slides and presentation notes here. Temple CARES Act, HEERF II and HEERF III information (FAQs and reporting) here for all students. The 2022-23 FAFSA application is available to be completed online now, fafsa.gov. Temple's priority deadline to complete is February 1st. Grant funding is limited and never guaranteed from year to year. Financial aid offers for newly admitted (fall 2022) undergraduate students began in mid-February. Take a look at our Incoming Student & Family Handbook for more information. Newly admitted graduate student financial aid offers began in March and returning student financial aid offers will begin in late June for students enrolled for fall semester with verification/requirements complete. Summer financial aid offers are available in early May. Complete all Financial Aid Requirements ASAP by selecting the Student Financial Services section within the Cost & Aid tab of your TUportal. This will take you to the SFS Dashboard (temple.studentforms.com). *Google Chrome is recommended* To receive and retain financial aid, including the student Federal Direct Loan and Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students, all students (undergraduate, graduate & professional) must meet certain eligibility requirements. Temple University Student Financial Services Mailing Address: 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 All payments must be sent to the Bursar’s Office. Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact SFS Quick Links: Bursar's Office Financial Literacy Registrar's Office TUportal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers At Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved.