Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Bills & Payments Bills & Payments Direct Deposit Bills & Payments Overview Getting Started Bills & Payments Basics Billing Schedule Logging into SSOL Authorizing a Payer Your Account Statement Paying Your Bill Options for Managing Payments Unpaid Bills Other Ways to Pay Online Check Mail Wire Payment Plan Sponsored Students Tuition Exemption AmeriCorps Awards College Savings Plans Getting Refunds Credit Balances and Refunds Stipend Awards Direct Deposit For Parents For Administrators Direct Deposit Play the video to learn how you can have student account refunds, stipends, work-study payments, or University paychecks deposited directly to your bank account. Direct deposit to a U.S. checking or savings account is the University's preferred method for issuing stipends to students. This saves the time of picking up and processing a paper check, and makes the funds available much sooner. To enroll in direct deposit, you will need your bank routing number and your savings/checking account number. This information is available on the bottom of your checks or directly from your bank. See a sample check displayed below. These numbers are not on your debit card. It is the student's responsibility to update banking information. Incorrect banking information for direct deposit will result in a delay in the receipt of funds. Students are encouraged to re-type banking information in the SSOL Direct Deposit web page in order to ensure accuracy. Set Up Your Direct Deposit For Refunds and Stipends: All Students (Domestic and International) Note to International Stipend Recipients: you can also go to my.columbia.edu to enter or update your direct deposit information. 1. Log into Student Services Online (SSOL) and select "Direct Deposit Authorization" from the menu on the left side of the page. (Click or tap image above to zoom.) 2. You will arrive at the "Direct Deposit" page. Use your bank account information to complete the form in the grey area, under "Direct Deposit Information." Click the "Submit" button. (Click or tap image above to zoom.) For Payroll (Federal Work-Study Participants and Non-Work-Study Student Employees) 1. Go to my.columbia.edu. Enter your UNI and password in the authentication page that follows. 2. Log in by clicking on the "People at Columbia (PAC)" icon. (Click or tap image above to zoom.) 3. Once logged in, click on "Payroll and Compensation”. You will arrive at the "Direct Deposit" page in PAC. Click on the plus sign found under “Accounts and then click on "Add Account”. (Click or tap image above to zoom.) (Click or tap image above to zoom.) 4. Enter your bank account information and click “save”. (Click or tap image above to zoom.) Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York