Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us Branches & Agencies Executive Branch Legislative Branch Judicial Branch Agencies Initiatives Have an Idea? Resources What's Going On? Get Involved About Us Branches & Agencies Initiatives Resources What's Going On? Get Involved Search About Us Branches & Agencies Executive Branch Legislative Branch Judicial Branch Agencies Initiatives Have an Idea? Resources What's Going On? Get Involved 2022-2023 Executive Officers President Jamie Williams-Smith, Vice President Chika Nwosu, and Treasurer Tatiana Alvarado serve as your 2022-2023 Student Government Executive Officers. Inauguration Learn about key initiatives from the 2021-2022 Student Government Executive Board as well as initiatives to come from the 2022-2023 Student Government Executive Board. TMH Recap > For the Canes. By the Canes. The mission of the 2021-2022 Student Government Executive Board is to advocate for all undergraduate students by cultivating productive relationships and creating a culture of justice and equity through inclusive collaboration, effective communication, environmental consciousness, and school spirit. Reach Out Share an Idea Join Us Land Acknowledgement As cited by Native American and Global Indigenous Studies, "The University of Miami acknowledges the ancestral and traditional territories of the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Council of the Original Miccosukee Simanolee Nation Aboriginal Peoples and the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida who are the original owners and custodians of the land upon which we stand and learn." University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Student Government Shalala Student Center 1330 Miller Dr, Suite 210A Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices