Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About the Nolan School Celebrating 100 Years History Leadership Dean’s Welcome Diversity & Inclusion Events Programs All Programs Undergraduate Executive Education Graduate Programs Faculty & Research Faculty and Research Faculty Search Centers Institutes Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Recruiting Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (EBV) Home Industry Industry & Program Events Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (EBV) In Service to those who have Served The Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration has always welcomed military personnel, and we have placed a particular emphasis on assisting recent veterans who want to pursue a business. Our major effort is Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (EBV), which provides entrepreneurial training and education specifically geared to twenty-first-century veterans with service-related disabilities. The Cornell Nolan School is one of a network of colleges and universities that provide this program at no cost to our veterans who are developing their entrepreneurial businesses. The Nolan School’s three-phase program welcomes veteran entrepreneurs who seek to develop a hospitality industry business, particularly in the food and beverage segment. We are especially excited to meet with our program participants on campus for nine days of personal interaction. The Nolan School began hosting EBV in 2012 in association with the Leland C. and Mary M. Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship. This is part of Lee and Mary Pillsbury’s vision for encouraging business formation through the United States as a way to improve the nation’s economy and to open the way for a new generation of business leaders. Because of their personal drive and organizational abilities, few people are in a better position than veterans to develop and operate successful businesses. As shown below, EBV features online study, nine days of learning at the Nolan School on the Cornell campus, and twelve months of follow-up support. All of this is at no cost to the veteran participants. 2018 EBV-Cornell program EBV in the media Veterans at Cornell EBV's Three Phases Phase 1: Online Training A rigorous 30-day, online curriculum focused on basic skills of entrepreneurship and promotion of self-awareness of individual strengths moderated by the Nolan School entrepreneurship faculty. Phase 2: Residency Nine-day residency at the Nolan School: students learn the core components of a business plan from Cornell’s world-class faculty and accomplished entrepreneurs. Phase 3: EBV-Technical Assistance Program Twelve months of ongoing support and mentorship from faculty experts and a robust, comprehensive network of mentors, resources and national partnerships. Spotlights Featured EBV Alumnus: Ken Notari Ken Notari had long been interested in entrepreneurship, and after a 20-year military career, he and his wife Dani were already on the path to starting their own business. But it was after he attended EBV that everything fell into place… Learn More Support EBV You can become part of this important effort to support our country’s veterans and to improve the nation’s business climate. Learn More Business bootcamp helps vets launch startups For eight years, Michael Dailey served in the U.S. Army, making sure troops were well-fed in places like… Learn More About EBV Founded in 2007 at the Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University, EBV has emerged as a national education initiative—the EBV consortium. The consortium is composed of the following ten institutions: Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University, Florida State University’s College of Business, UCLA Anderson School of Management, Mays Business School at Texas A&M University, University of Connecticut’s School of Business, Purdue University’s Krannert School of Management, E.J. Ourso College of Business at Louisiana State University, Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration, Saint Joseph University’s Erivan K. Haub School of Business, and the Trulaske College of Business at the University of Missouri. EBV Video 2016 EBV 2015 EBV 2014 EBV 2013 EBV EBV Newsroom Contact Us ebv-cornell@cornell.edu EBV National Office, ebvinfo@syr.edu, 315.443.8791 Event Sponsorship Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (EBV) is a month-long experiential training program in hospitality entrepreneurship and small business management. At no cost, disabled veterans of Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom participate in 20 days of online training followed by a week of on-campus sessions led by the Nolan School faculty, Cornell University community, and Culinary Institute of America. Interested in sponsoring this event? Please reach out to ebv-cornell@cornell.edu. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Industry Contact Us Corporate Engagement Opportunities Industry & Program Events Cornell Hospitality Icon & Innovator Awards Cornell International Hospitality Summit Cornell Receptions at Industry Events Cornell MMH Reception Cornell Reception at ALIS Cornell Reception at IHIF Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (EBV) 2013 EBV 2014 EBV 2015 EBV 2016 EBV 2017 EBV 2018 EBV EBV Application EBV Newsroom Hotel Ezra Cornell Recruiting Best Practices Recruiting Opportunities Planning Your Visit Big Red Threads Quick Links Directory Visit Library Facilities News Articles & Features Media & Press For Parents & Families The Latest: COVID-19 Hospitality industry resources Business insights from our experts Contact Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Statler Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Intranet Publications Hotelie Magazine Cornell Hospitality Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Nolan Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.