Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About the Nolan School Celebrating 100 Years History Leadership Dean’s Welcome Diversity & Inclusion Events Programs All Programs Undergraduate Executive Education Graduate Programs Faculty & Research Faculty and Research Faculty Search Centers Institutes Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Recruiting Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Hospitality and Real Estate Management Programs Home Programs Undergraduate Graduate Executive Education The Cornell Nolan School’s Premier Hospitality Management Degree Programs Benefit from the best hospitality education you can get, at the only hospitality management program in the Ivy League. Our educational approach to the business of hospitality prepares you for success in your business, leadership, or entrepreneurial career. At Cornell, our unique, innovative, AACSB-accredited hospitality management degree programs blend cutting-edge instruction with hands-on experiential learning. Our award-winning faculty are research pioneers, industry experts, and outstanding educators who put their students’ success first. At the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration, you’ll find an exceptional student experience and a welcoming Hotelie community you’ll love. Undergraduate Hospitality Management Program A strong business foundation focused on service. The Nolan School’s Bachelor of Science degree in hotel administration offers a variety of hospitality management courses for undergraduates including marketing, finance, real estate, operations, and more. Our AACSB-accredited business degree is your entrée into the world’s most exciting industry and a rewarding, rich career. Learn more Graduate Hospitality Management Programs Advanced degrees for your business or research career Our powerful hospitality management graduate programs help you harness your innovative spirit, problem-solving skills, and passion for service, whether you aspire to industry or thought leadership. Find the perfect hospitality management master’s or doctoral program for your career path. Master of Management in Hospitality Master of Management in Hospitality In only 12 months, earn a graduate degree that prepares you to be a leading force in the industry. Choose an MMH degree specialization in service marketing, operations and analytics, entrepreneurship, food and beverage management, or self-directed study. Self-directed studies may include revenue management, digital marketing, restaurant entrepreneurship, or wine marketing and distribution. Executive Master of Management in Hospitality Executive Master of Management in Hospitality The 20-month Executive Master of Management in Hospitality program empowers hospitality professionals to earn their master’s degree primarily online without pausing their careers. The program includes virtual events and two in-person residencies to enable students to collaborate with each other and faculty members. Baker Program in Real Estate Baker Program in Real Estate Immerse yourself in real estate with our two-year, comprehensive, and multidisciplinary experience featuring specialized concentrations, treks, internships, and networking — and enjoy endless opportunities to launch your career. Master of Science & PhD in Hotel Administration If you aspire to a career in teaching and conducting groundbreaking research in hospitality management, our highly competitive MS and PhD are for you. Gain broad-based industry knowledge, research proficiency, and teaching skills to thrive in academia. Master of Science & PhD in Hotel Administration Executive Education Programs Take your career to the next level with the Nolan School’s accredited programs Experience Cornell excellence, designed for the global hospitality professional and focused on your individual or organizational requirements. Choose classroom, online, and custom programs formulated with flexibility and the working professional’s schedule in mind. Online Learning for Hospitality Management Online Learning Enjoy the flexible, results-focused virtual learning of eCornell, tailored to the schedule and requirements of working professionals. Learn at your own pace while working with classmates all over the globe, building your network, and gaining valuable education and skills to succeed in hospitality. Hospitality Certificate Programs Custom Programs We work with you to tailor our hospitality content to your organization’s specific requirements. Study on the beautiful Cornell campus, have our faculty teach at your offices, or enjoy online learning content customized for you. Executive Education Certificate Programs The Nolan School offers certificates in hospitality management, hospitality leadership, digital marketing, financial management, hospitality labor and employment law, wines, and many more. Explore our rich selection of certificate programs to add to your industry knowledge and expertise. Choose Your Nolan School Program and Apply Your Nolan School adventure starts here Whether you’re a high school student, a college student currently in another program, or an industry professional considering a degree or certificate, the Nolan School has the right program for you. Here’s how to apply to our undergraduate, graduate, and executive education programs in hospitality management. Undergraduate How to Apply First Year Transfer International Graduate Master of Management in Hospitality (MMH) Executive Master of Management in Hospitality (EMMH) Baker Program in Real Estate MS and PhD Programs in Hospitality Executive Education Online Learning Classroom Programs Custom Programs Current Student Thinking about exploring a new program — or navigate here by accident? If the former, browse above to learn more. Otherwise, head to the Current Students page for more information. Quick Links Directory Visit Library Facilities News Articles & Features Media & Press For Parents & Families The Latest: COVID-19 Hospitality industry resources Business insights from our experts Contact Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Statler Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Intranet Publications Hotelie Magazine Cornell Hospitality Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Nolan Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.