Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About the Nolan School Celebrating 100 Years History Leadership Dean’s Welcome Diversity & Inclusion Events Programs All Programs Undergraduate Executive Education Graduate Programs Faculty & Research Faculty and Research Faculty Search Centers Institutes Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Recruiting Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Graduate Programs Baker Program in Real Estate Baker Program in Real Estate A Master’s Program Where FINANCE & DEVELOPMENT Meet REAL ESTATE. Gain experience and develop your career with the Master of Professional Studies in Real Estate – The Baker Program. The Cornell Baker Program in Real Estate prepares professionals with a comprehensive, multidisciplinary, and flexible real estate master’s degree. Through specialized concentrations, treks, internships, and the powerful Cornell network, you’ll graduate with endless opportunities in the real estate industry. What makes the Baker Program in Real Estate different? This two-year graduate real estate program is the most comprehensive and versatile degree of its kind. It combines concentrations, experiential learning, and an internship, which prepares and equips students with far more than what a one-year program can provide. Offering more than five areas of concentration, and both domestic and international real estate development treks, Baker Program in Real Estate students’ knowledge and understanding of the global real estate business is second to none. You will graduate with a competitive skill set and unmatched experiences as you jumpstart your real estate career. Baker Program in Real Estate at a glance Degree Awarded Master of Professional Studies in Real Estate from Cornell University Location Cornell University campus in Ithaca, New York Program Format Full time and in person with a local residency requirement Program Schedule Fall start; four semesters with a summer internship Baker Program in Real Estate highlights Whether you’re just beginning your career, or looking for ways to strengthen your real estate knowledge, or looking to make a switch into real estate, the Baker Program in Real Estate allows flexible specialization opportunities to bridge knowledge gaps and give you the specific tools you need for success. Unlike most programs, the Baker Program focuses on both the finance and development aspects within the real estate trade, giving you a comprehensive skill set to apply to your career path. Master's Program Curriculum: Specialized and real-world experience With our master’s in real estate program, you’ll not only learn business principles in class, but also put them into action within the context of the real estate sector. Industry engagement is a cornerstone of the Baker Program in Real Estate with weekly seminars and a summer internship designed to foster real-world experience and connections. More about the Baker Program in Real Estate curriculum A tight-knit and diverse cohort Treks are a distinct way for real estate master’s degree students to broaden and deepen their perspective of commercial real estate. Each year, Cornell’s faculty, the largest full-time real estate faculty in the country, create treks for students to visit with local developers around the world, meet with alumni, tour domestic and global real estate landmarks, and gain practical knowledge that can be applied to any of the five Cornell real estate concentrations. The Cornell Real Estate student experience Building your area of specialization The Baker Program in Real Estate offers a broad range of specializations, helping students identify and hone their expertise. With concentrations in the five following areas, the choices of individualization are vast: International Real Estate Real Estate Consulting and Market Analysis Property, Asset, and Portfolio Management Development and Sustainability Real Estate Finance and Investments …or an independent concentration Choose your own path of real estate concentration What’s next? Learn more about the Baker Program in Real Estate admissions process. All prospective real estate graduate students should apply to the program through the Cornell Graduate School. The Baker Program in Real Estate admissions team will review your application and credentials. If you’re just getting started, please review our admissions page to learn about the admissions process and criteria to apply, and consider attending an event or connecting with the admissions team. Visit Campus Visit Cornell University and the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration to learn more about the Baker Program in Real Estate, meet with admissions, or connect with current students. Plan your visit Connect With Admissions Let us know you’d like to hear from us, and we’ll send you information on upcoming events, the application process, and the Baker program in general. — Request information Application Deadlines Round Deadline Round 1 December 1 Round 2 January 15 Round 3 March 1 Round 4 (Final) April 15 Applicants may be admitted, denied, or waitlisted until later in the admission cycle. Admission notifications are typically released 6-8 weeks after each deadline. All required components must be received in order for your application to be considered. Start Your Application Upcoming Baker Program admissions events Please see the bottom of the main Baker Program website for upcoming events. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Apply Now Executive Education Amicale Internationale des Chefs de Reception Brochure PDF Download Page Catalog Faculty Faculty profile General Managers Program (GMP) Apply Courses Course Schedule Online Certificates Certificate Courses Course Professional Development Program (PDP) Apply Certifications Certification Courses Course Professional Development Program 2020 Professional Development Program 2020 Schedule Schedule Deutsche Hospitality and Cornell University Leading Hotels of the World Melia Hotels International Testimonial Submission Confirmation The Iberostar Group Which Executive Education Programs are Right for You? WorldHotels Graduate Programs Baker Program in Real Estate Cornell-Peking MMH/MBA EMMH Master of Management in Hospitality Careers 2018 Employment Report – Master of Management in Hospitality 2019 Employment Report – Master of Management in Hospitality Master of Management in Hospitality (MMH) Career Outcomes Curriculum Degree Requirements Industry Immersive Experiences MMH Specializations International Kyoto MBA & Cornell MMH Dual Degree Opportunity MMH Admissions Application Requirements Connect, Visit, or Request Information Frequently Asked Questions Tuition, Financing, and Scholarships MMH Student Experience Student Experience Master of Science & PhD Programs in Hotel Administration Academics Degree Requirements Faculty & Advising Executive Advising MS vs. MMH PhD Student Course Requirements and Research Methods Courses How to Apply Eligibility Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financing MS & PhD Awards and Scholarships Student Employment Request Information Undergraduate How to Apply Transfer Option Frequently Asked Questions Student Experience Centers & Institutes Cornell Nolan School Student and Alumni Profiles Engagement and Inclusion Programs Hotelie Credentials Establishment About Us Menu Hotel Leadership Development Program SHA Spaces & Places Undergraduate Academics Academic Advising Executive Conversations Courses Degree Requirements and Curriculum Experiential Learning Dean’s Distinguished Lecture Series 2016 – 2017 Speakers 2017 – 2018 Speakers 2018 – 2019 Speakers 2019 – 2020 Speakers 2020 – 2021 Speakers 2021 – 2022 Speakers Past DDLS Speakers Hotel Ezra Cornell Past HEC Programs Student Involvement Specializations and Minors Undergraduate Minor in Real Estate Undergraduate Application Requirements Undergraduate Careers Employment Statistics Employment Statistics Undergraduate Career Outcomes 2019 What Is Hospitality Management Welcome, Cornell Nolan School admitted students! Why the Nolan School Visit Us Request Information Quick Links Directory Visit Library Facilities News Articles & Features Media & Press For Parents & Families The Latest: COVID-19 Hospitality industry resources Business insights from our experts Contact Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Statler Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Intranet Publications Hotelie Magazine Cornell Hospitality Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Nolan Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.