Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About the Nolan School Celebrating 100 Years History Leadership Dean’s Welcome Diversity & Inclusion Events Programs All Programs Undergraduate Executive Education Graduate Programs Faculty & Research Faculty and Research Faculty Search Centers Institutes Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Recruiting Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home About the Nolan School Newsroom and Publications Faculty in the News Faculty in the News Starbucks Is Closing All Its U.S. Stores for Diversity Training Day. Experts Say That’s Not Enough (Time, May 2018) One-time, mandatory training sessions don’t often have a positive impact on the workforce—especially if the kind of messages and lessons from a training sessions aren’t repeated throughout an employee’s career at the company. “Think of it as a muscle: if you’re not using it, you kind of lose it,” said Jamie Perry, assistant professor of human resources management. Hotel Butler Service Is Really Nice. Is It Worth the Price? (The New York Times, May 2018) According to Reneta McCarthy, senior lecturer in services operations management, the concept of butlers dates at least as far back as the 18th century in Europe, when a butler was a male who was in charge of the dining and entertainment in wealthy households. “Eventually, the idea of butlers seeped into the hotel space in Europe,” she said. “And more recently, in an effort to differentiate themselves in a competitive market, more and more top-end hotels are touting that they have butlers to pamper their guests.” As lifestyle brands enter the hospitality business, hotel rooms double as showrooms (The Washington Post, April 26) “Creating a holistic hospitality experience is so much more than having the right interior design and furnishings, and these brands need to think through what kinds of intangible experiences can further complement and elevate the brand experience in the hospitality space,” said Helen Chun, associate professor of services marketing. “They also need to establish operational standards, deliver on services, and engage with right partners to make this work.” Marriott Rewards merger with Starwood, Ritz-Carlton programs brings mixed reviews (USA TODAY, April 2018) “The merged Marriott loyalty program is a mixed blessing for its members,” said Chekitan Dev, professor of marketing. “Whether the new program is better or worse in terms of its value will depend on the way it is structured. Starwood Preferred Guest Members are huge fans of the program, more so than Marriott Rewards members. So, Marriott would be well-served to make the new program as close to the Starwood program as possible.” Hating tipping is easy. Fixing it is almost impossible. (The Washington Post, March 2018) Tipping culture is strong, notes Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, who has been studying it for three decades—so strong that only an airtight prohibition could stamp it out. “Once a few people start tipping,” Lynn notes, “it puts social pressure on others to do the same.” With Hotels Becoming Social Spots, More Private Spaces for Guests (The New York Times, March 2018) Credit the trend toward private spaces in hotels to millennial travelers, said Chekitan Dev, professor of marketing. Millennials, he said, “are interested in what I call ‘private public’ spaces where private spaces can be secluded giving them a feeling of exclusivity while, at the same time, public in that they can socialize with a group of friends.” Cornell SC Johnson to train young Rwandans in hospitality industry (Cornell Chronicle, March 2018) Said Rohit Verma, Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management, “Building on the unique strengths of Cornell’s School of Hotel Administration, we will provide educational training to youth in Rwanda in the areas of hospitality and business management and prepare them to take leadership roles in the growing service industry in their home country.” Cornell to Help Establish University in Hanoi in Collaboration with Vietnamese Company (The Cornell Daily Sun, March 2018) “Cornell is the first major U.S. university to take the leading role in shaping higher education in this fast-growing region of the world,” said Rohit Verma, Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management. “This partnership also brings new resources to Cornell that can be used to strengthen our current program offerings in Ithaca.” Cornell to collaborate with Vingroup to establish VinUniversity in Hanoi, Vietnam (Cornell Chronicle, March 2018) “The Cornell SC Johnson College of Business is pleased to collaborate with Vingroup and provide extensive consultation in a variety of areas, drawing from a wealth of expertise at multiple colleges and units at Cornell,” said Rohit Verma, Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management. “We’re looking forward to working with Vingroup in the creation of a new university to benefit the citizens of Vietnam.” How Skipping Hotel Housekeeping Can Help the Environment and Your Wallet (The New York Times, February 2018) “So that’s better from a water perspective,” said Jeanne Varney about hotels incentivizing customers for forgoing housekeeping during their stays. “You get the benefit of not using cleaning chemicals in the rest of the room. Not running vacuum cleaners saves energy.” The Limitations of American Restaurants’ No-Tipping Experiment (The New Yorker, February 2018) Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, says that a customer who routinely tips 15 percent will see a gratuity-included restaurant as more expensive than a traditional restaurant with menu prices 15-percent lower. “In fact, a customer who routinely tips 20 percent”—making his or her total bill higher than the gratuity-included alternative—”will still view the no-tipping restaurant as more expensive.” Stymied by regulators, Airbnb looks to luxury vacations, hotels for growth (Reuters, February 2018) “Airbnb (is) figuring out how do we grow at the same levels that investors are expecting us to grow, given some of the regulatory headwinds,” said Christopher Anderson, director of the Center for Hospitality Research. “That comes down to more breadth of inventory.” Are Hotels Gouging When Doubling, Tripling Or Quadrupling Rates? (Forbes, November 2017) The rate fluctuations at hotels “are nothing compared to what we commonly see on any airline flight,” said Christopher Anderson, director of the Center for Hospitality Research and professor of services operations management. Hotels “have long been less aggressive in pushing prices higher during high-demand periods,” he added. The ability to push prices higher during high demand enables hotels to “make travel more affordable in the long run for more consumers.” Tipping May Be the Norm, but Not for Hotel Housekeepers (The New York Times, October 2017) “Tipping etiquette experts have said for 20 years or more that you should tip hotel maids. But even I don’t do it all the time,” said Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. “Half the time I don’t have the proper change in my pocket or I forget.” In New York City, a New Moxy Hotel Has a History (The New York Times, September 2017) “That first Moxy was an instant hit because it combined everything that many travelers, and especially millennials, are looking for in a hotel, including buzzy public spaces and a sweet price point,” said Reneta McCarthy, senior lecturer in services operations management. “All of the Moxys since then have been successful for these same reasons.” Hotel Tonight Faces off With Expedia, Priceline With Advanced Bookings (U.S. News & World Report, September 2017) “Hotel Tonight is going to be seen as the same as the other companies,” said Christopher Anderson, director of the Center for Hospitality Research and professor of services operations management, regarding veteran online travel companies’ efforts to keep pace with the startup’s bold initiatives. Airports (Like Carriers) Use Twitter to Ease Travelers’ Concerns (The New York Times, August 2017) Steven Carvell, professor of finance, sees social media efforts as an antidote to the stress of traveling. “Airports can’t control the check-in standards for the airline and can’t control security for luggage.” Hotels find alternatives to room service (USA TODAY, August 2017) “Room service can be complicated and expensive to operate well,” says Chekitan Dev, professor of services marketing. “In areas where there are local restaurants that can deliver a variety of food (like) New York City or where grocery delivery is readily available, it makes sense to outsource in-room dining to third parties.” Best tippers? Gender and political affiliation may factor into how you tip at restaurants (USA TODAY, July 2017) A 2008 study conducted by Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, found that both black and white customers tip black servers less than their white counterparts. Changing design of hotel rooms (San Francisco Chronicle, May 2017) Stephani Robson, senior lecturer in properties development and management, said business travelers should expect to experience such design flaps as removal of desks from guestrooms as hotel chains try to figure out how their customers work. “We’re going to see more tensions in the next few years, like with the desks, as hotels try to capture smaller and smaller slices of the market,” she said. Drink Up, Business Travelers. The Minibar Is on the Way Out. (The New York Times, May 2017) Stephani Robson, senior lecturer in properties development and management, confirmed that hotel-room minibars are becoming extinct. “They take up space and energy and they require a lot of labor to maintain,” she said. HSMAI Announces 2017 Revenue Management Professionals of the Year and Vanguard Lifetime Achievement Honoree (San Francisco Chronicle, May 2017) The Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association International (HSMAI) will present the Vanguard Award for Lifetime Achievement in Revenue Management to Sheryl Kimes, professor of services operations management, at its upcoming Revenue Optimization Conference (ROC) Americas on Wednesday, June 28 in Toronto, Canada. Coffee Shops Skip Wi-Fi to Encourage Customers to Actually Talk (The New York Times, May 2017) Alex Susskind, associate professor of food and beverage management, said he saw the lack of Wi-Fi as a detriment. Customers develop a “habituated expectation” and would be surprised not to have it. “That kind of bucks the trend of what most people go to coffeehouses for,” he said. A Hotel for Every Traveler, Sometimes Several Under One Roof (The New York Times, May 2017) Cathy Enz, associate dean for academic affairs and the Lewis G. Schaeneman Jr. Professor of Innovation and Dynamic Management, said that when a company has too many brands aimed at similar customers in the same segment, they can all start to look alike. They are left to compete just on price, she said, a situation most companies try to avoid. Security Line Blues? Maybe Some Cool Jazz Will Help (The New York Times, May 2017) “Arts are one of the few things an airport authority can do to control the traveler experience,” said Steven Carvell, professor of finance. “They take the traveler out of the space they are in, so they are not attending to their anxiety.” Is wine healthy? (CNN, April 2017) Wines from warm climates often have 14% to 15% alcohol, according to Stephen Mutkoski, professor emeritus of wine education and management. And the higher the alcohol content, the more calories in wine. With More Tipping Options Comes More Confusion (The New York Times, April 2017) Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, said that it was “easy to overestimate people’s awareness and knowledge of the social norm” when it came to tipping. Over all, he said, helping consumers with their tipping decisions was something they liked. “When a company facilitates tipping, that just makes it easier on the customer.” In the Bahamas, a Long-Awaited Opening for Baha Mar Resort (The New York Times, April 2017) Delayed hotel openings are common, but Baha Mar’s trajectory is unusually long, said Reneta McCarthy, senior lecturer in services operations management. “There’s been a lot of buzz about this project and drama surrounding it for years,” she said. “It’s an ambitious venture, and all eyes will be on it to see how it fares.” Familiar Names at the Store Want You to Stay With Them, Too (The New York Times, March 2017) According to Stephani Robson, senior lecturer in properties development and management, retail companies that open hotels had to work with companies that had hotel experience. “You need partners and financing,” she said. Hoteliers Comb the Ranks of Tech Workers to Gain an Edge (The New York Times, February 2017) Kate Walsh, interim dean, says she is seeing more companies coming on campus to hire students who are specializing in areas like digital marketing and business analytics. “They want foodies who code,” she said. SAY AHHH: Spa and wellness businesses surging (Ithaca Journal, January 2017) “People are not so much concerned about how long they will live, but how healthy they will be when they are older,” said Reneta McCarthy, senior lecturer in services operations management, discussing the growing appeal and popularity of the spa and wellness indstry. “In the past, I had bad migraine headaches and was prescribed a massage by a doctor. The massage made it so I could function.” How Travelers Should Tip During the Holidays (and How Much) (The New York Times, December 2016) Reneta McCarthy, senior lecturer in services operations management, says that from December 15 through January 1, tipping at least 25 percent above the usual tip amount to anyone who serves you when you’re traveling is a much appreciated gesture. “Remember that these people are working hard through a very hectic season, and it’s nice for you to show them that you recognize this,” she said. Med costs, insurance worry New Yorkers, survey shows (Cornell Chronicle, November 2016) Most people aren’t worried about the quality of American health care, “but they’re clearly telling us where they’re hurting—in the pocketbook,” said Rohit Verma, the Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management. “They’re blaming that pain on two causes: hospital and doctor bills, and the regulatory policies that govern health insurance in this country.” Soothing Ruffled Guests: Hotels Meet Threat of Bad Reviews (The New York Times, October 2016) Christopher Anderson, director of the Center for Hospitality Research and professor of services operations management, suggests that smaller hotels ask all guests to submit reviews to online travel sites like TripAdvisor. The larger review pool will “be more representative of guests in general,” Anderson said, and not be as heavily weighted by the more extreme responses. With Room Service and More, Hospitals Borrow From Hotels (The New York Times, August 2016) A hospital patient arriving for a specific medical issue needs to have attention to all parts of mind and body to reduce stress and improve outcomes, said Rohit Verma, dean of external relations of the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, executive director of the Cornell Institute for Healthy Futures, and Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management. Stuck With a Pricey Hotel Reservation? Maybe You Can Sell It (The New York Times, May 2016) “It’s definitely not going away,” said Christopher Anderson, associate professor of services operations management, about the practice of reselling nonrefundable hotel-rooms reservations. “Automatically canceling and rebooking is scarier to hotels because it has an adverse effect on pricing and profitability.” Uber to riders: Tips are still optional (San Francisco Chronicle, April 2016) “I think Uber went out of its way (from its beginning) to discourage tipping because it fits their business model,” said Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. “They want to be all about convenience and to appeal to the sizable segments of the population that don’t really want to tip.” Would you pay to make a reservation at a hot new restaurant? You might have to. (The Washington Post, April 2016) Sherri Kimes, professor of services operations management, has been researching customer opinions about the practice of paying for reservations, with unequivocal results. “Overall, people thought it was horrible. Looking at it from a pure academic standpoint,” she said, such systems “seem very logical,” because they acknowledge that diners are buying not just food but a restaurant’s space and time. “But just because something is logical doesn’t mean that customers like it.” Why do we tip? (PBS, March 2016) “I think that there are five basic motives for tipping,” said Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. “Some people tip to help the server, to supplement their income and make them happy. Some people tip to get future service. And then other people tip to avoid disapproval: You don’t want the server to think badly of you. And some people tip out of a sense of duty.” Uber to riders: Tips are still optional (San Francisco Chronicle, April 2016) “I think Uber went out of its way (from its beginning) to discourage tipping because it fits their business model,” said Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. “They want to be all about convenience and to appeal to the sizable segments of the population that don’t really want to tip.” At Microhotels, the Price Is Right and the Space Is Tight (The New York Times, March 2016) “There’s much less labor than a traditional hotel,” said Stephani Robson, senior lecturer in properties development and management, regarding microhotels. Here To Stay: How Indian-Born Innkeepers Revolutionized America’s Motels (NPR, March 2016) “They really did change franchising,” says Jan deRoos, the HVS Professor of Hotel Finance and Real Estate, on the impact of motel proprietors who can trace their heritage to the Indian state of Gujarat. He says Gujaratis played a huge role in the expansion of Best Westerns and Days Inns across the country, partly because they were willing to relocate to out-of-the-way places like Canton, MS, or Plainville, OH. Remember That Wedding Where We Ate Elk? (The New York Times, February 2016) Where food was once an afterthought, “it’s become a far more important part of the wedding,” said Alex Susskind, associate professor of food and beverage management. “Now weddings are more about what you’re serving as opposed to where you’re having it.” Comforts of a Hotel That’s Close to Home in Dangerous Weather (The New York Times, January 2016) Hotels are looking to replace lost business with any incremental revenue, said Christopher Anderson, associate professor of services operations management, “and even capture a guest who otherwise might not stay and introduce them to their product.” Online Booking Makes Hotel Loyalty Harder to Keep (The New York Times, January 2016) “It’s a tricky transitional period,” said Christopher Anderson, associate professor of services operations management. The industry, he said, is adopting new technologies but at the same time the hotels are very competitive in vying for customers. Hotel Reservations Are Becoming More Complicated, and Costly to Cancel (The New York Times, December 2015) “Hotel reservations have long been way too flexible,” Christopher Anderson, associate professor of services operations management, wrote in an email. They have been slow to become more restrictive because of competition, he added. Airports Create Hotel Complexes, Aiming to Become Destinations (The New York Times, October 2015) Steve Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs, addresses the trend of airports getting into the hotel business. “San Francisco, New York, Denver, and Atlanta are all international gateway airports,” and have gotten the message “to make the airport a destination in and of itself.” Who’s the Boss When You Work for a Franchise or Contractor? A Trade-Off for Large Franchises and Companies (The New York Times, September 2015) In a New York Times debate piece, Arturs Kalnins, associate professor of strategy, discusses the labor implications of evolving franchisor/franchisee duties. “If franchisors want to avoid being considered a joint employer, all they have to do is stay out of franchisees’ decisions about their workers and workplaces.” Why hotels must make room for innovation—and little bunnies: A talk with Cathy Enz(Accenture.com) Cathy Enz, the Lewis G. Schaeneman Jr. Professor of Innovation & Dynamic Management, discusses the role of innovation in hotels, and how the industry must foster and encourage it. “Commercializing new ideas means rethinking, reinventing, and modifying the status quo—it’s not about what worked yesterday.” No Need to Call the Front Desk, Just Send a Text (The New York Times, June 2015) Reneta McCarthy, senior lecturer in services operations management, urges hotels to be judicious in their use of texting to communicate with customers. “One thing that’s critical is making sure that the hotel does not text too frequently. How many texts is appropriate? And should the first text that is sent to someone ask that person if they are O.K. with the business texting them?” Howard Chong receives Academic Venture Fund award Howard Chong, assistant professor of services marketing, is the principle investigator behind one of eleven projects chosen as Academic Venture Fund (AVF) award recipients for 2015. His project—”Real Savings from Home Retrofits”—seeks to compile real-world data on energy savings achievedby retrofitting homes. Hotels make high-tech part of high-class (CBS News, May 2015) Mona Anita K. Olsen, assistant academic director of the Leland C. and Mary M. Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship and visiting assistant professor of management and organizational behavior, says that while use of technology can set hotels apart from competitors, it has to be done well to avoid detracting from the overall service experience. Once a TA, Cheryl Stanley ’00 takes over SHA’s venerable Intro to Wines class (Cornell Alumni Magazine, May/June 2015) Cheryl Stanley ’00, lecturer in food and beverage management, continues an SHA tradition, teaching Intro to Wines, having once served as a TA for the course. Hotels Embrace Sustainability to Lure Guests and Cut Costs (The New York Times, April 2015) Rohit Verma, Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management, says hotel guests who participate in sustainability programs are generally more satisfied with their stay. Why some restaurants are doing away with tipping (The Washington Post, April 2015) Although research by Professor Michael Lynn—Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management—indicates tips don’t necessarily motivate waiters to perform better, he says tipping is too ingrained in restaurant culture to go away. Drawing upon the senses leads to good wine memories (Cornell Chronicle, April 2015) Thinking in pictures and shapes—rather than mere words—will lead to improved consumer sensory memories about wine, said Kathy LaTour, associate professor of services marketing. Uber picks up more corporate business (Marketplace, April 2015) Commenting on the increasing popularity of ride-sharing provider Uber among corporate customers, Rohit Verma—Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management—says that since they’re not spending their own money, business customers are generally more focused on convenience than price. Conference Centers Offer Companies Meeting Space Without Strings (The New York Times, April 2015) Steve Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs and academic director of the Leland C. and Mary M. Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship, asks “How are hotels going to respond?” given the rising popularity of standalone conference centers. Leonardo DiCaprio Builds an Eco-Resort (The New York Times, April 2015) “No hotel can be truly sustainable because you have to fly to get there,” comments Jan Katz, senior lecturer in management and organizational behavior, on ecotourism. Why McDonald’s Wage Hike Won’t Help Most Of Its Employees (Yet) (Time, April 2015) Dave Sherwyn, John and Melissa Ceriale Professor of Hospitality Human Resources and academic director of the Cornell Institute for Hospitality Labor and Employment Relations, says the McDonald’s decision to make a public statement about its new wage policy illustrates how quickly discussions about low-paying jobs have shifted recently. 10%? 20%? Apps Are Changing How We Tip (The New York Times, March 2015) “The big issue here is that this is putting a new social pressure on customers,” Professor Michael Lynn, Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management and professor of services marketing, said of tipping apps. “It’s up to me to leave the change in the tip jar, or not. Yet when you turn the screen around and I have to explicitly click ‘No Tip’ in front of you, that’s a lot harder.” Voices: At Cornell, learning about wine is serious business (USA TODAY, March 2015) Cheryl Stanley ’00, lecturer in food & beverage management—who teaches Introduction to Wines—discusses the course format, and the value of knowing wine as a life skill. Will A Tipped-Wage Hike Kill Gratuities For New York’s Waiters? (NPR, February 2015) “Customers will look at the menu price, and because it’s higher, they’ll think you’re more expensive,” said Michael Lynn, Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, as restaurants experiment with paying servers hourly wages, eliminating tipping, and making up the difference with higher prices. CORNELL CLOSE-UPS | Professor Cheryl Stanley ’00: The Woman Behind the Wine (The Cornell Daily Sun, February 2015) Cheryl Stanley ’00, lecturer in food & beverage management, teaches one of the most popular courses at Cornell: Hotel Administration 4300: Introduction to Wines, open to all students age 18 and over, from all majors across the university. Through the course, Stanley spends each semester sharing her extensive knowledge of, and passion for, wine. $3 Tip on a $4 Cup of Coffee? Gratuities Grow, Automatically (The New York Times, January 2015) Tipping as an American practice stretches back centuries. “There are records of George Washington and Thomas Jefferson giving tips to their slaves,” said Professor Michael Lynn, who has studied changes in tipping habits. In the 1940s, he said, the average restaurant tip was about 10 percent. “It’s very clear that tip sizes have increased over time,” he said. Why This New McDonald’s Lawsuit Could Be Big Trouble for Fast Food (Time, January 2015) “This is the tip of the iceberg,” said Professor Dave Sherwyn of a case arguing corporate responsibility for franchisee actions. “The next step is going to be in discrimination litigation and wage and hour litigation.” From Gluten-Free Beer to Kombucha, Alcohol Options for Health-Conscious Drinkers (CNBC, January 2015) “There’s gluten-free beer, seaweed beer, beet beer, all kinds of fruit beer,” said Giuseppe Pezzotti, senior lecturer. “They’ve been around, but they’ve been local.” Now, “you’re seeing them all over the place.” Jalopy-driving waitress gets tip of a lifetime: a shiny car (NBC News, December 2014) “It’s wonderful that there are people out there who do things like this,” said Mike Lynn, Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management and professor of services marketing. “It’s human nature to identify and try to help real people.” PKF-HR Forecasts Broad-Based RevPAR Growth (CNBC, December 2014) “Moody’s Analytics, our economic forecasting agent, projects that the U.S. is on track to reach full employment by 2016,” said Jack Corgel, Robert C. Baker Professor of Real Estate and Director of Graduate Studies for the Baker Program in Real Estate. Study: Restaurant Customers Favor Payment Technology (The Cornell Daily Sun, November 2014) Profs. Kimes, Verma, & McCall comment on the proliferation of payment technology & benefits to proprietors and patrons. Dual-degree program with CEIBS poised to bolster tourism (CNBC, October 2014) “These graduating students are expected to take executive positions in both US- and China-based hospitality, travel, and tourism companies,” said Professor Rohit Verma of the recently announced dual-degree collaboration between SHA and CEIBS. “They will be uniquely qualified to cater to the needs and preferences of visitors from each country to the other.” Why Jewelry Stores Hide The Price Tags (NPR, September 2014) “If I reject the item, it looks as though it’s too expensive for me, that I’m not as wealthy or generous as I might want to appear,” said Professor Michael Lynn. Envelopes in Marriott hotels invite tips for maids (U.S. News & World Report, September 2014) “30% of people stiff the maid,” says Professor Michael Lynn, commenting from his research on hotel tipping. SHA professor weighs in on LeSean McCoy tip debacle (Fox News, September 2014) “Unless there’s a really egregious problem, you should be tipping,” said Professor Michael Lynn, while also scrutinizing the restaurant owner’s actions: “Is it good business practice? No. No one wants to go to a restaurant that humiliates its customers.” Tips Don’t Add Up for Most Waiters and Waitresses (The Wall Street Journal, August 2014) As Professor Michael Lynn points out, the erratic and often poverty-level realities of tip-based pay means servers may have difficulty qualifying for a car loan or mortgage. Franchisors Fear Labor’s Big Mac Win (Time, July 2014) Professor David Sherwyn commented on a ruling moving the fine line between a corporation’s control of its franchise and the former’s legal liability for the latter’s actions. ‘Green’ is a wash in the hospitality industry: could we be doing more? (The Guardian, July 2014) Professor Rohit Verma explained that while “greening” hotels doesn’t increase demand, it does improve customer satisfaction, and investors are interested because it reduces costs. Does new-tech tipping trick you into paying more? (KPCC-FM, June 2014) Professor Michael McCall was a guest on a radio show that explored possible effects of mobile payment apps on how much people tip. Hotels Dazzle Guests With High-Tech Amenities (Forbes, May 2014) Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, says the pervasiveness of mobile technology and devices is pushing hotels to make use of new apps and systems. Meeting Rooms Past the Gates (The New York Times, May 2014) “You’re probably not going to schlep into town to go to dinner,” says Stephani Robson, senior lecturer, discussing why meeting space was more profitable at airport hotels than other types of properties, as her research shows. Now on Hotel Lists: Private-Label Wines (The New York Times, May 2014) Professor Kathy LaTour explains how wine features prominently in the hotel experience: “As millennials travel more, they’re reflecting on their hotel experience by bringing back a bottle of wine.” Hotels Embrace the Campus Nearby (The New York Times, May 2014) According to Professor Michael Giebelhausen, “The hospitality industry is focused on the customer experience right now. Hotel managers are integrating local elements and upping their games on unique offerings.” This includes syncing those offerings with the rhythms of the local college. Why Darden ditched biscuits and not breadsticks (Marketplace, May 2014) Professor Alex Susskind explains how the length of a typical visit to a casual-dining restaurant like Red Lobster, as compared to fast-casual chains, is a growing disadvantage. The Ultimate Guide To Living On Tips, Part 1: How To Earn More In Tips (Forbes, April 2014) “If servers can establish a social connection with their customers, they’ll get better tips,” said Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. Hotels Still in the Sweet Spot for Growth (Globe St.com, April 2014) “[The unemployment rate and inflation] will help suppress the increases in the less-controllable fixed component of hotel operating expenses,” says Jack Corgel, the Robert C. Baker Professor of Real Estate and senior advisor to PKF-HR. ‘Green’ deeply engrained in hotel industry (Hotel News Now, April 2014) Rohit Verma, Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor in Asian Hospitality Management, has found that hotels with various levels of sustainable certification are more resource-efficient and reap savings on the bottom line. Finger Lakes chef seeks help for mobile teaching kitchen on Kickstarter (The Ithaca Journal, April 2014) Going mobile requires an investment to outfit a traveling kitchen and obtaining health permits, but it’s certainly less expensive than a fixed restaurant and is a growing trend, said Alex Susskind, associate professor, food and beverage management. Alone Together: The Return of Communal Restaurant Tables (The Atlantic, March 2014) “It’s about money,” said Stephani Robson, senior lecturer, properties development and management. After the recession it became even harder for restaurants to meet their bottom line. “The only way to make money was either to raise prices or do more covers in the same space.” Loyalty Programs for One-of-a-Kind Hotels (The New York Times, March 2014) A recent Cornell study showed that travelers joining independent hotel loyalty programs spent more nights, and dollars, at those hotels. From Airlines to Hotels, a Quest to Help You Sleep (The New York Times, March 2014) While it may seem as if travel brands are seeking additional income from bed sales, that’s not necessarily what they’re after. “It’s more of a P.R. thing,” said Steve Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs. “It’s not going to be a huge profit percent driver for the brand.” The Empty Jar vs. the Glowing Screen (Slate, March 2014) Electronic tipping programs “increase the social pressure to tip, and that should probably cause more people to tip,” says Mike Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. Inside Airbnb’s Grand Hotel Plans (Fast Company, March 2014) “Airbnb is not a lodging brand,” says Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing. “It’s a virtual marketplace, like eBay. It’s always going to be niche, constrained by how many people want to stay in an Airbnb type of experience.” ‘Zero tip,’ some say if minimum wage rises (CNBC, February 2014) According to research by Mike Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, customers tend to tip less in states where the tipped minimum wage is higher. 5 Industries Where Women-Owned Businesses Survive Longer (Fox Business, February 2014) Depending on the industry, female-owned businesses have a greater chance of long-term success, suggests a study co-authored by Arturs Kalnins, assoc. prof, strategy. Radisson to Launch Hotel for Millennials (The Wall Street Journal, February 2014) “Several of the brands are trying to anticipate the future and are putting in a lot of time, resources and energy,” says Cathy Enz, Lewis G. Schaeneman, Jr. Professor of Innovation & Dynamic Management. Is your cruise safe? (CNN, January 2014) Robert Kwortnik, assoc. prof., services marketing, explains why cruise lines are not to blame for outbreaks on board. By-the-Hour Microstays Add to Big Hotels’ Bottom Line (The New York Times, December 2013) “Hotels own a physical asset 365 days a year,” said Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing, “and they need to maximize revenue for every square centimeter 24 hours a day.” Hilton IPO brings in $2.35B, outdoes Twitter (Yahoo Finance, December 2013) “Hilton has an advantage over competitors in several key markets due to the prime locations of its hotels,” notes Steve A. Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs. Inside the evolving hotel bathroom (The New York Times, December 2013) The New York Times turned to Stephani Robson, senior lecturer, for insight into the evolution of hotel bathrooms. Hotels set aside floors for women (USA TODAY, December 2013) “Women are more influenced by their surroundings, and therefore, the ways in which hotels can accommodate them become important,” says Judi Brownell, prof., organizational communication. “My research identified three things that are important to women business travelers and that influence their decision regarding where to stay: safety; empowerment; and pampering.” Hotels that go green gain no booking advantage, study says (The Los Angeles Times, October 2013) Going green may be a hot trend in the hospitality industry, but hotels that earn environmental certificates do not have an advantage when it comes to attracting guests, according to a study by Howard Chong, assistant professor of services marketing, and Rohit Verma, professor of services operations management. How you name it matters: ‘gambling’ vs. ‘gaming’ (Cornell Chronicle, October 2013) Is online betting fun entertainment or a seedy fraud? Your opinion likely depends on whether you label it “gambling” or “gaming,” reports a new Cornell study that shows how industry labels help shape consumer attitudes. Kathy LaTour, assoc. prof., services marketing, is co-author. How luxury hotels mine social media in the name of comfort (The Globe and Mail, October 2013) “You have to earn your stripes in the social media world, baby, or you’re done for,” said Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing. “The ground has shifted.” How Hotels Are Engineering A Better Night’s Sleep (The Huffington Post, October 2013) “The Heavenly bed changed the way that other hotels looked at innovation,” said Stephani Robson, senior lecturer, properties development and management. “What Westin did that was so smart, they recognized very early that they needed something that would set them apart and give them a marketing edge.” Should we abolish restaurant tipping? (Radio Times WHYY Philadelphia, October 2013) Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management, explains the history of tipping and why we tip what we do. Hotels fight comparison shoppers with lower, locked rates (The New York Times, September 2013) Chris Anderson, assoc. prof., services operations management, estimates that 20 percent of hotel reservations experience a price decline after the guest books the room and by the time the guest arrives. Hilton Going Public: Good or Bad for Franchisees? (Entrepreneur, September 2013) Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing, argues that going private gave Hilton a chance to grow and become more effective without being under the “financial microscope,” and that going public now could offer new opportunities for growth. Are Americans stuck with tipping? (The Los Angeles Times, September 2013) Despite several high-profile restaurants that have done away with tipping, “I think it’s very difficult to eliminate,” says Michael Lynn, the Burton M. Sack ’61 Professor in Food and Beverage Management. Making the hotel lobby a place to see and be seen (ABC News, September 2013) Steve Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs, says younger guests “very much want that sense of not feeling alone, even though they are.” Hilton pays $4M tab for dropping room service (Crain’s New York Business, July 2013) “In some ways this settlement is unprecedented not just in its amount,” said David Sherwyn, the John and Melissa Ceriale Professor of Hospitality Human Resources. “This is one of the major hotel operators in the country and its getting rid of room service [at the midtown location]. That’s a huge thing and a long-term move.” At Hotels, New Ideas Mix With the Tried and True (The New York Times, July 2013) On-site testing of new ideas is happening on a hotel-by-hotel basis, as hospitality companies across the price spectrum encourage individual locations to express themselves and offer a local difference to their guests, said Steve Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs. Hyatt, UNITE HERE end stalemate (Hotel News Now, July 2013) David Sherwyn, the John and Melissa Ceriale Professor of Hospitality Human Resources, said the agreement is a good deal for both sides. “What it shows is the belief of the inadequacy of the NLRB election,” he said. Holiday Inn Express, Marriott eye the younger traveler (USA TODAY, June 2013) “Their lifetime value is higher because they have many more years of travel ahead of them, they view travel as an entitlement more than their Baby Boomer parents did and are willing to spend on it, and their hotel brand affinities are not fully formed so they are still in play as far as their travel habits are concerned,” says Chekitan Dev, assoc. prof., services marketing. Should American restaurants abolish tipping? (NBC News, June 2013) Think about it: With tipping, diners are paying different amounts for the exact same meal, says Michael Lynn, Burton M. Sack ’61 Prof. in Food and Beverage Management—which means more generous customers are being penalized. 8 hotel fees that may surprise you (CNN, June 2013) “The smart hotels will structure offerings that are both reasonable to the consumer and add value. A few hotels will challenge the very notion of hospitality—’Mary and Joseph, there will be an additional straw fee for the manger,'” says Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing. In key Asian cities, global forces drive hotel revenues (Cornell Chronicle, June 2013) Global forces play a greater role than local factors in driving hotel revenues in eight major Asian cities, according to three SHA professors. Is end of room service in sight? (The Toronto Star, June 2013) Steve Carvell, assoc. dean for academic affairs, says room service is expensive and not a great service overall. Guests don’t feel they are getting good value and believe they’re being gouged by the hotels. Once labour costs and issues of clean-up and sanitation are factored in, “in-room dining is rarely a money maker.” Should Tipping be Banned? (Freakonomics Radio, June 2013) Michael Lynn, Burton M. Sack ’61 Prof. in Food and Beverage Management, explains the ins and outs of tipping and why, if it were up to him, he’d outlaw the custom. Workshops spread the science of selling wine (Cornell Chronicle, May 2013) “When pros talk about wine, the terminology they use can create distance between the consumer and the wine,” says Kathy LaTour, assoc. prof., service marketing. “The language should be specific, tangible and relatable.” Guilt tip: Why we reward bad service (MSN, May 2013) “The major reason people tip is to avoid social disapproval,” says Michael Lynn, Burton M. Sack ’61 Prof. in Food and Beverage Management. According to Lynn’s research, a customer who leaves a good tip might be trying to dodge the server’s envy. Checking In After Checkout (The New York Times, May 2013) Electronic surveys have a higher response rate than paper ones, according to Chris Anderson, assoc. prof., services operations management, but for all of the new variations of hotel surveys and delivery systems, most guests still ignore them. At 4 years old, Airbnb grows out of start-up role (NBC News, May 2013) Airbnb is growing up. The site recently announced a plan to ensure its users are who they say they are. “To scale, they have to become recognized for being trustworthy and effective,”says Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing. The hotel wake-up call gets personal (USA TODAY, May 2013) In the competitive race for loyal customers, many properties are getting creative with the wake-up call. Personalizing the wake-up call is an “opportunity to make that one additional brand impression,” says Chekitan Dev, assoc. prof., services marketing. Army recruits private companies to run its hotels (USA TODAY, May 2013) Chekitan Dev, assoc. prof., services marketing, expresses positive remarks on private companies taking over guest lodging at bases in the U.S. Army. Hotels check in to your head (The Washington Post, April 2013) Stephani Robson, senior lecturer, properties development and management Faculty stir up solutions at climate change forum (Cornell Chronicle, April 2013) Howard Chong, assistant professor, services marketing Say good-bye to no-shows (National Restaurant Association online, March 2013) Sherri Kimes, professor, service operations management Forget about hotel amenities, bring on the experiences (USA TODAY, March 2013) Chekitan Dev, associate professor, services marketing. Hotels look to cater for more female business travelers (CNN, March 2013) Judi Brownell, professor, management and organizational behavior Hotel towel dilemma: Replace or reuse? (CNN, March 2013) Michael Giebelhausen, assistant professor, services marketing New book reveals why brand is hospitality king (Cornell Chronicle, February 2013) Chekitan Dev, associate professor, services marketing US Airways, American merge in $11 billion deal (Philly.com, February 2013) Steve Carvell, associate dean for academic affairs How to Cook on Mars (Science Friday, February 2013) Rupert Spies, senior lecturer, food and beverage management Study quantifies financial impact of good online reviews for hotels (The Los Angeles Times, December 2012) Chris Anderson, associate professor, services operations management Cornell study links hotel reviews and room revenue (Travel Weekly, November 2012) Bed, bathrobe, and beyond (The New York Times, October 2012) Rohit Verma, professor, services operations management 10 things travel sites won’t tell you (MarketWatch.com, October 2012) Bill Carroll, senior lecturer, services marketing Where the jobs are: restaurant sector improves (USA TODAY, October 2012) Bruce Tracey, professor, human resources management When it comes to reservations, time is money (The New York Times, September 2012) Sheryl Kimes, professor, service operations management No-Hook Nation: Why Is It So Hard to Find a Place to Hang Our Stuff? (The Atlantic, August 2012) Stephani Robson, senior lecturer, properties development and management How Holiday Inn changed the way we travel (Time, August 2012) Arturs Kalnins, associate professor, strategy They’ll be cooking up a Mars menu that’s out of this world (NBC News, June 2012) Rupert Spies, senior lecturer, food and beverage management Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Campus and Virtual Tour Celebrating 100 Years Join the Celebration Our History Dean’s Welcome Dean’s Advisory Board Dean’s Council of Young Alumni Dean’s Executive Team Student Assistants to the Dean Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Facilities Live Campus View Marriott Student Learning Center Request a Room Reserve a Facility Atrium Spaces Auditorium Classrooms Computer Classrooms Conference Rooms Food Lab Group Study Rooms Interview Rooms Marriott Student Learning Center Reserving Policy The Statler Hotel History of the Hotel Students Working, and Learning, at the Hotel Welcome to the Statler Hotel History Leadership at the Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration Newsroom and Publications Cornell Nolan School Publications Annual Report Archive Cornell Hospitality Quarterly (CQ) Hotelie Magazine School Newsletter Statler News Faculty in the News News Releases PR & Media Relations Syndication With RSS Feeds Profiles MMH Profiles Aida Scarpati, MMH ’18 Emily Ambrose MMH ’16 Karoline Schwartz, MMH ’17 Lauren Feder, MMH ’17 Mairin Barnes, MMH ’14 Nicholas Meditz, MMH ’17 Rudraksh Singh MMH ’17 Tom Deighton, MMH ’16 Vishal Singh MMH ’04 Undergraduate Profiles Amanda Weinstein ’18 Benjamin Pilosof ’16 Brooke Gerstein ’15 Claire Benninger ’17 Davana Bolton ’16 Fred Ho ’16 Grant Behnke ’17 Gundeep Singh ’17 Jennifer Marcott ’18 Jeremy Schwartz ’18 Kayti Stanley ’18 Larry Robinson ’18 Lauren Mahaney ’16 Macarena Moreno ’16 Marlee Birnberg ’17 Megan Trillo ’16 Samuel Clement ’16 Sarah Monahan ’19 Savannah Woodworth ’17 Stephanie Goldstein ’17 Stephanie Peltz ’17 Tommy Ballerini ’18 Vanessa Chu ’17 The Nolan School’s Commitment to Antiracism Why the Nolan School Industry Advantages Quick Links Directory Visit Library Facilities News Articles & Features Media & Press For Parents & Families The Latest: COVID-19 Hospitality industry resources Business insights from our experts Contact Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Statler Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Intranet Publications Hotelie Magazine Cornell Hospitality Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Nolan Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.