Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Programs All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Programs Undergraduate Minors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Entrepreneurship and Innovation The entrepreneurship and innovation minor will teach you how to think like an entrepreneur and creative innovator. There is no expectation that you’ll have your own startup ideas or that you want to become a business founder; the minor is not exclusively about ideation or the practical aspects of starting a company. Instead, it offers a more general approach to stimulate entrepreneurial thinking and problem solving. This minor is also useful for those interested in becoming intrapreneurs and looking to learn how to apply an entrepreneurial approach to drive innovation in a corporate setting. With this minor, you’ll prepare for careers that include: Capitalizing on opportunities through the creation of new businesses. Working within startups or large innovative firms. Participating in initiatives to address social and environmental issues. Contributing to entrepreneurial ecosystems through consulting, finance, accounting, law, and policy. Who’s eligible for the entrepreneurship and innovation minor? All Cornell undergraduates except students enrolled in Dyson. How many credits are required? 17 core credits across areas like teams and people, entrepreneurship in practice, perspectives, and guided exploration. *This reflects updates to the minor as of April 2020. I’m interested. What’s next? After reviewing the requirements below and our FAQ and policies page, you can begin the process using the Business Minors Dashboard. Current students: You can manage your minor and track your progress using the Business Minors Dashboard. Recommended foundational coursework Introductory courses in foundational subjects such as microeconomics, accounting, finance, management, marketing, and operations can be helpful in preparing for this minor. While there are no required prerequisites to begin the minor, some courses within the minor may require a specific prerequisite course, so be sure to plan ahead! Core Requirements This minor requires coursework in four areas: 1) perspectives, 2) teams and people, 3) entrepreneurship in practice, and 4) guided exploration. It’s recommended that you take the course requirements in sequence (areas 1 through 4) to the extent possible. A letter grade of a C or better is required for all courses. Substitutions are not allowed for areas 1 through 3. Courses may not be double counted across categories. Students may not “double count” courses that overlap with the other business minors – the courses you choose may only count toward one minor. Perspectives (3 credits) The following course is required: Course Code Course Title AEM 2220 Foundational Perspectives and Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship Teams and people (2 credits) 2 credits are required. These courses will provide you with theories and frameworks for leading and working in teams. Credits earned in excess of the 2 required in this category may NOT be applied to the required 9 credits of guided exploration. Course Code Course Title HADM 4115 Managing Professional Relationships ILROB 2230 Leadership in Organizations ILRHR 4603 Work Groups and Teams ILROB 5275 Leading and Managing Teams NBA 5150 Leadership Theory and Practice NCC 5540 Managing and Leading in Organizations Entrepreneurship in practice (3 credits) 3 credits are required. These experiential courses require you to work in a team to explore an opportunity, do customer development, create a business, and deliver a written and oral presentation. Up to 4 credits earned in excess of the required entrepreneurship in practice courses may be used toward the guided exploration credits. Course Code Course Title AEM 3249 Entrepreneurial Marketing and Strategy AEM 4200 Dilemmas in Founding New Ventures HADM 4145 Business Model Innovation and Design NBA 3000 Designing New Ventures ENGRG 4610/ MAE 4610 / ORIE 4152 Entrepreneurship for Engineers Guided exploration (9 credits) 9 credits from the list below are required. You may find the three categories helpful in selecting courses about entrepreneurship and innovation in different industries and organizational settings and to align with your post-graduation plans. Up to 4 excess credits from the entrepreneurship in practice requirements may be applied to guided exploration. If you wish to count a course not listed below, you can submit a substitution petition. Only courses that relate to entrepreneurship and innovation in a non-trivial sense will be considered. Petitions must be submitted for approval PRIOR to taking the course and only 1 substitution is allowed. Universal topics Course Code Course Title AEM 3249 Entrepreneurial Marketing and Strategy AEM 3251 The Business Laboratory and New Venture Management HADM 3610 Communications for Entrepreneurs HADM 4130 Entrepreneurial Management HADM 4145 Business Model Innovation and Design HADM 4800 Law for Entrepreneurs NBA 5380 The Business Idea Factory ILRHR 6611 Seminar in Entrepreneurs and Entrepreneurial Organizations Special topics Course Code Course Title AEM 3110 Design and Innovation AEM 3385 Social Entrepreneurship Practicum: Anabel’s Market HADM 4140 Innovation and Corporate Renewal NBA 6230 / 6330 Actualizing Your Startup: Part 1 – 4 Technology Course Code Course Title AEM 3220 Digital Business Strategy AEM 4615 Digital Platform Strategy AEM 4650 / AEM 5560 / NBA 6650 The Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation ENGRG 2270 Introduction to Entrepreneurship for Engineers MAE 4340 Innovative Product Design via Digital Manufacturing NBA 6029 Leading Agile Innovation NBA 6910 Physical Product Entrepreneurship PLBRG 4050/IARD 4050 Invention and Technology Commercialization: Intellectual Property Management for Scientists, Engineers, and Entrepreneurs Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Programs Undergraduate Admissions Minors Business Minor Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Entrepreneurship and Innovation Applied Economics Food and Agricultural Business Sustainable Business and Economic Policy International Trade and Development Real Estate Policies and FAQs Graduate Executive Education Contact Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell SC Johnson Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.