Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About the Nolan School Celebrating 100 Years History Leadership Dean’s Welcome Diversity & Inclusion Events Programs All Programs Undergraduate Executive Education Graduate Programs Faculty & Research Faculty and Research Faculty Search Centers Institutes Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Recruiting Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Nolan School of Hotel Administration at the SC Johnson College of Business Why Nolan School Industry Advantages Programs Discover the Cornell Nolan School: The World’s Premier Hospitality School If you want to be the best, learn with the best. At the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration, we’ve been pioneering, reimagining, and perfecting hospitality education for a century. We push boundaries in the pursuit of excellence and define the future of our industry. Our AACSB-accredited degree immerses you in a business education infused with the foundational knowledge of hospitality, services, and real estate. The Cornell Nolan School experience combines world-class classroom instruction with hands-on experiential learning and is the only Ivy League program of its kind. You’ll join the ranks of our proud Hotelie community, which includes foremost leaders, innovators, and entrepreneurs in one of the most exciting industries around the globe. Announcements from the Nolan School Check here for critical announcements from the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration. Cornell Nolan School Celebrates A Century of Hospitality Leadership The Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration announces a yearlong celebration to commemorate the 100th anniversary of it’. Please join us as we enter a new century of impact and leadership. CELEBRATE WITH US Nolan School Ranked #1 by CEOWORLD Magazine The Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration was ranked the number one hotel management school by CEOWORDLD Magazine in the publication’s list of “Best Hospitality and Hotel Management Schools in the World for 2022.” More on the award Landmark Gift Establishes Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration A historic $50 million gift from Peter Nolan ’80, MBA ’82, and Stephanie Nolan ’84 will establish the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration. READ MORE School Highlights 1922 year founded 60 faculty 1,000+ undergraduate and graduate students 15,000+ alumni worldwide Why Study at the Nolan School? Simply put, our school provides a world-class student experience — the most advanced and innovative of its kind. If you have intellectual curiosity, creativity, and a passion for service, we’ll help you develop the knowledge and skills to thrive and succeed in your career of choice. All powered by an unmatched alumni and industry-leader network. Ours is a special and close community. As our alumni like to say, once a Hotelie, always a Hotelie! Why You Should Choose The Nolan School What Our Students Say “I chose to attend SHA [Nolan School] because of its world-class instruction, alumni network, and great post-graduation opportunities. SHA [Nolan School] is the best hospitality school in the world not just because of what we learn but how we interact with other students, professors, and alumni.” – Hannah MacDonald ‘22 “I really like how SHA [Nolan School] encourages independent work and exploration. I wasn’t sure what field I wanted to go into, but opportunities like HLDP, working at Statler, and the hands-on experience attached to the course work allowed me to explore different areas of the industry.” – Jenniviv Bansah ‘22 “Through the exposure to fields like finance, real estate, and development in my classes and clubs, I was able to unlock a different career interest. Having such a wide variety of opportunities for career and professional development has truly allowed me to explore so many fields that I had no knowledge of prior to Cornell.” – Kyra Roach ‘22 Alumni Highlights Service Excellence in All They Do Nolan School alumni are a powerful, global network of more than 15,000 Hotelies in every imaginable hospitality industry, united by their dedication to making a difference in others’ lives through service excellence. Whether they work in technology, real estate, food and beverage management, hotel management, or other fields in the business of hospitality, they are leading with innovation, emotional intelligence, and a passion for service. Elizabeth Blau ’97 FOUNDER AND CEO OF RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT COMPANY BLAU + ASSOCIATES The Nolan School Learn more Biography for Elizabeth Blau ’97 Recalling the impact of the Nolan School on her illustrious career in the hospitality industry, alumna Elizabeth Blau said, "SHA [Nolan School] truly changed the course of my professional career! The access to students, faculty, alumni and an extraordinary host of guest speakers is incomparable!" Keith Barr ’92 CEO OF IHG HOTELS AND RESORTS The Nolan School Learn more Biography for Keith Barr ’92 "My time at SHA [Nolan School] gave me a deep understanding of the hospitality industry that was underpinned by a comprehensive business curriculum and helped me form critical industry relationships," said Keith Barr, Nolan School alum and CEO of IHG Hotels and Resorts. "These factors combined to set me on the path to be a successful leader in business." View Keith Barr ’92 View Jess Petitt ’05 CHRISTINA HEGGIE ’10 GLOBAL PARTNERSHIPS LEAD FOR GOOGLE TRAVEL The Nolan School Learn more Biography for CHRISTINA HEGGIE ’10 Christina Heggie '10, is currently Global Partnerships Lead for Google Travel, she believes the Nolan School has impacted her entire career. "Attending the Hotel School [Nolan School] expanded my purview, jump started my career, and established my skill sets of communication, problem solving, and people management that I’ve used throughout life since," Heggie said. Jess Petitt ’05 Vice President of Analytics at Hilton The Nolan School Learn more Biography for Jess Petitt ’05 "The Hotel School [Nolan School] helped me build a connection between what matters most - the spirit of hospitality and taking care of fellow team members - and how I could make a difference by pursuing my strengths in understanding complex problems through data. Every year I come back to recruit that mix of passion and analytical rigor and am constantly impressed." Gilda Perez-Alvarado ’02 Global CEO of JLL Hotels & Hospitality The Nolan School Learn more Biography for Gilda Perez-Alvarado ’02 “The Nolan School taught me my craft and helped me develop my passion – global hospitality. My four years at Cornell were very impactful, but the impact extends beyond that: the friendships and network I made because of the school are incredibly invaluable.” The Nolan School’s Industry-Leading Hospitality Business Programs The Nolan School offers hospitality degrees and programs to fit any stage of your career, whether you’re an undergraduate or graduate student, or an executive professional seeking to sharpen your knowledge of a certain field or industry. Access Bachelor of Science, Master’s, PhD, and executive education custom and online program offerings below. BS in Hotel Administration Undergraduate Our signature Bachelor of Science in Hotel Administration undergraduate AACSB-accredited degree offers a variety of hospitality management courses, including real estate, marketing, finance, operations, and more. Your entrée into a fulfilling career in the world’s most exciting industry, our hotel administration degree is a rewarding, fully rounded student experience that melds classroom instruction with relevant hands-on experience to put your learning into practice. The full-time, residential program is conducted on the Cornell University campus in Ithaca, New York. Master’s & PhD Programs Graduate Our unique, Ivy League master’s programs seamlessly tie a rigorous business education into the context of hospitality, accelerating your career in hospitality, and preparing you to become a leading force in the industry. The Nolan School’s master’s programs include a Master of Management in Hospitality, Master of Professional Studies in Real Estate, and Master of Science in Hotel Administration. Or, take your MS degree in Hotel Administration one step further with the PhD in Hotel Administration. Time requirements of these individual graduate degrees vary. Custom Programs Executive Education Experience Cornell excellence, with carefully focused content designed specifically for the global hospitality professional. Whether you want to study as an individual or sign up a team from your organization, we guide you through the process and ensure you find the perfect program for your unique needs. To provide you with the highest level of convenience, we offer three modes of instruction. Choose classroom programs on Cornell’s campus, where you can network with industry peers and world-class Cornell faculty. Select online learning to study and network with peers from around the world. Or opt for custom programs to tailor content to your organization’s specific needs — you can study on the Cornell campus, or have our faculty teach at your facility. Nolan School Faculty: Expert Instructors, Practitioners, and Researchers Nolan School faculty are distinguished industry specialists and thought leaders who focus directly on research that benefits the hospitality industry, whether it’s real estate, finance, services management, human resources, food and beverage management, or organizational behavior. Expert and caring instructors, they prepare students to be emotionally intelligent, culturally aware, skilled, and technologically proficient professionals dedicated to delivering service excellence. LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR FACULTY Centers and Institutes for Industry Innovation Designed to promote industry growth and enrich the educational curriculum, the Nolan School’s six centers and institutes provide exceptional opportunities for students to work directly with our corporate members via research and internships, putting their learning into practice: Center for Hospitality Research, Center for Real Estate and Finance, Cornell Center for Innovative Hospitality Labor and Employment Relations, Cornell Institute for Food and Beverage Management, Cornell Institute for Healthy Futures, Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Leadership. EXPLORE The Nolan School’S CENTERS AND INSTITUTES Nolan School News & Insights June 1, 2022 Fintech at Cornell hosts symposium advancing research in financial economics The meeting brought together 80 academic participants from across the globe to help advance theoretical research in financial economics. May 31, 2022 Nolan Gift and Challenge Funds Boost Scholarships for SC Johnson College Students More than $66 million in scholarship funds are opening up possibilities for students across the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business. May 23, 2022 Cornell SC Johnson College Graduates Next Generation of Business Leaders The Cornell SC Johnson College of Business community is celebrating the achievements and success of the Class of 2022. Undergraduate and graduate students across the college’s robust catalog of degree […] Campus and Virtual Tour: The Nolan School’s Immersive Hospitality Experience in New York Visit us or take a virtual tour to see how our school of hospitality can transform your life and set you on course to an exciting, rewarding career. Experience the culture of an Ivy League university and see how the Nolan School has pioneered education and innovation in hospitality, the world’s largest industry. Situated in the heart of the beautiful Cornell campus, the Nolan School is located among the hills and gorges of Ithaca, consistently named one of the best college towns in the US. EXPLORE CAMPUS Upcoming Events View all Nolan School events 6/6/2022 12:00 am PIHE Advisory Board Meeting NYC 6/7/2022 12:00 am PIHE: 13th Annual Icon and Innovator of the Industry Awards Gala 6/7/2022 8:00 am CREF: Advisory Board Meeting See Where the Nolan School Can Take You: Apply Now Take the first step toward a rewarding, fulfilling career in the world’s largest and most versatile industry. Experience the Nolan School’s expert instruction, hands-on learning, outstanding student experience, challenging but caring faculty, and loyal Hotelie community. Add Cornell credentials and our century of shaping hospitality education, and you have the best start to your adventure in hospitality management. EXPLORE PROGRAMS Apply Now Quick Links Directory Visit Library Facilities News Articles & Features Media & Press For Parents & Families The Latest: COVID-19 Hospitality industry resources Business insights from our experts Contact Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Statler Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff & Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Intranet Publications Hotelie Magazine Cornell Hospitality Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Nolan Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.