Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programs Faculty Columbia Students K-12 Students and Educators News & Announcements About Us SHAPE ENG: Engineering the Next Generation Inside Engineering Engineering Speaks HK Maker Lab NSF COSMOS-NewLAW Research Experiences and Mentoring and Teaching Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) Columbia's FIRST Robotics Team Columbia University Competitions in Math The Youth Sports Lab Robogals Engineers Without Borders Columbia Space Initiative National Society of Black Engineers Society of Hispanic Pre-Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (CU SIAM) Sci-Inspire SciRISE - Scientific Research by International Students at ELLIS Other STEM Programs at Columbia Girls Who Code Columbia Engineering Outreach Programs You are here: Home Programs SHAPE - Summer High School Academic Program for Engineers SHAPE - Summer High School Academic Program for Engineers Photo by Timothy Lee SUMMER HIGH SCHOOL ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOR ENGINEERS Summer 2022 Applications Open Now! Columbia Engineering Summer High School Academic Program for Engineers (SHAPE) is a selective summer high school program for rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors. SHAPE is geared toward local students who have demonstrated an interest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Each 3-week session offers college-level courses in engineering, which are complemented by electives and workshops. We were fortunate to have a successful remote program in 2021 and we are hopeful for an in-person program in 2022. Applications for Summer 2022 are available now. Visit the links below to find out more about important dates and information for this summer. Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name Select your affiliation Prospective Applicant Parent of Applicant School guidance counselor or teacher Other Learn More clipboard icon Application & Eligibility The SHAPE application cycle for the summer of 2022 is open now! The program is for current high school students. Students are expected to have demonstrated STEM interest. institution icon Courses and Programs SHAPE will offer various courses in robotics, computer science, electrical and innovation and design. The program will include electives and workshops. question-circle icon FAQs Frequently asked questions on application, courses, programs, and tuition. dollar icon Tuition, Fees, and Scholarships Learn more about the costs associated with the program and available financial aid. Phone (646) 745-8422 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close