Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Home Get Care Toggle the sub-menu Get help now Get help anytime Self-care Report Toggle the sub-menu Report to the university Report to law enforcement Help a Friend Toggle the sub-menu How to support a friend Get Involved Toggle the sub-menu Be an active bystander Change the culture Coalition on Sexual Violence Prevention Learn More Toggle the sub-menu Recognize signs and behaviors Educational resources For parents Other resources Cornell data During COVID-19 Toggle the sub-menu Resources Maintaining relationships Safety concerns Helping a friend SHARE Sexual Harassment and Assault – Response and Education Home Get Care Toggle the sub-menu Get help now Get help anytime Self-care Report Toggle the sub-menu Report to the university Report to law enforcement Help a Friend Toggle the sub-menu How to support a friend Get Involved Toggle the sub-menu Be an active bystander Change the culture Coalition on Sexual Violence Prevention Learn More Toggle the sub-menu Recognize signs and behaviors Educational resources For parents Other resources Cornell data During COVID-19 Toggle the sub-menu Resources Maintaining relationships Safety concerns Helping a friend SHARE: Sexual Harassment and Assault – Response and Education This website provides important and timely information to the Cornell community about sexual harassment, assault, dating/domestic violence, stalking, gender discrimination, and other related forms of violence. It also offers information about Cornell services, support, reporting options, education, and advocacy. Call upon any of the offices listed on this site to learn more about available resources and response options. This website strives to be a comprehensive resource on sexual assault and related violence, one which can provide some initial options and direction for those who need support and assistance after an incident. Please note Because of the need for continued precautions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many services are still taking place online or by phone. Please use the business emails and/or phone numbers listed on this site to connect with campus and community support. Get Help Immediately If you need emergency assistance, or to report a crime, call 911. To reach the Cornell Police, call (607) 255-1111. For confidential consultation with a health care provider or counselor, students may call Cornell Health at (607) 255-5155 (24/7 for urgent concerns). Faculty and staff may call the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program at (607) 255-2673 for support and referrals. Report a Sexual Assault To contact a Title IX coordinator, email titleix@cornell.edu for a response during business hours. Learn more about how to report Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search