SHARE Sexual Harassment / Assault Advising, Resources and Education Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Sexual Harassment / Assault Advising, Resources and Education Exit this site Main Menu Menu About Submenu Letter to our Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Staff SHARE Peer Directory Community Reports Administrative Map Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Support & Services Submenu After Hours Services Our Services Request an Appointment Supportive Resources Programs & Initiatives Submenu SHARE Peers Program SHARE Allied Membership Program MAVRIC Project and Blog SCORRE Program Community Integrity Program Online Prevention Program UMatter/Respect Matters Workshops & Trainings Signature Events Anti-Violence Education Submenu Know the Facts Supporting a Survivor Understanding Consent Co-Survivor Considerations Campus Policies and Procedures State and Federal Legislation Search Search SHARE We are here to help The Sexual Harassment/Assault Advising, Resources and Education (SHARE) office is a survivor-centered, trauma-informed confidential resource on campus for the Princeton University community. SHARE provides crisis response, support, short-term counseling, advocacy, education, and referral services to those who are dealing with and/or supporting survivors of interpersonal violence and abuse including sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating/domestic violence, and stalking. Contact Us Supportive Resources Request an Appointment Princeton University Health Services (UHS) is dedicated to respecting the rights and welfare of the Transgender and Gender Diverse community by acknowledging that gender does not exist on a binary. Princeton University Health Services (UHS) is dedicated to respecting the rights and welfare of the Transgender and Gender Diverse community by acknowledging that gender does not exist on a binary. UHS strives to validate, and normalizes gender diversity and opposes all public and private discrimination on the basis of actual or perceived gender identity and expression. Further, UHS calls upon healthcare professionals to take a leadership role in working against discrimination towards Transgender and Gender Diverse individuals. In line with the best practices developed by the world’s leading medical and psychological associations, UHS supports transgender and gender nonbinary students’ access to gender affirming care, including but not limited to the initiation and continuation of gender affirming hormones and insurance coverage of surgeries and procedures for gender affirmation. Medical appointments can be scheduled with Valerie Lewis, M.D., MPH, by calling the McCosh Health Center front desk at 609-258-3141 during normal business hours. Call 609-258-3141 to make an appointment for an initial 20-minute consultation with Counseling and Psychological Services to access gender-affirming mental health support. You can also schedule your initial consultation appointment online (link is external). Gavin Jones, UHS Trans Health Team member, has IC appointments available as soon as early next week. Contact Jim Scholl or Gavin Jones to learn more about the work of the Princeton UHS Trans* Health Team Letter to our community Dear Princeton, Welcome to our new SHARE website. If you are new to Princeton or our office, please know that SHARE is a survivor-centered, trauma-informed, confidential resource on campus for you. Sexual violence on college campuses is a national epidemic. Our Princeton community is no exception, and we believe the work starts at home. SHARE is dedicated to making all of our communities safer by utilizing a socio-ecological model of violence prevention, to ensure we combat violence from all angles (individual, group, institutional, community and society). We recognize that interpersonal violence is undergirded by oppression, in all of its forms, and we direct our prevention and intervention efforts there. We anchor to building a holistic culture of respect on campus as well as skill-building on bystander intervention, consent, and healthy relationships. As a complement to our prevention programming, we provide consultative services in support of students looking to (re)establish behavioral expectations for their teams, organizations, and clubs in order to promote safe, respectful, and inclusive environments. Despite our efforts to prevent interpersonal violence and abuse, it does occur on our campus. As such, we work to ameliorate the pain and suffering that results from these acts by supporting survivors. This support can take the form of individual advocacy (assistance navigating the University and community-based systems) and counseling to facilitate emotional healing. At SHARE, our primary goal with survivors is to help empower them to make informed decisions about which options, if any, they wish to pursue, while attending closely to their intersectional needs and wellbeing. In addition to our services for survivors, a specialized SHARE provider, located outside of McCosh Health Center, facilitates a clinical and educational intervention program for those who have caused harm, to assist them in understanding the impact of their harm and gain the skills necessary to prevent it in the future. While we don’t write campus policy or have the role of enforcing policy, our advocacy efforts uplift student and survivor voices to those who have these responsibilities. Whenever possible, we look for opportunities to expand options and explore structural or institutional interventions that can increase the likelihood for more respectful interactions. Oftentimes, this takes the form of working collaboratively with campus partners and external stakeholders to improve policy, procedures and other systemic responses that impact survivors. We hope one day to work ourselves out of a job and eliminate interpersonal violence in our communities. In the meantime, we avail ourselves to survivors, co-survivors, first responders, and those who wish to partner with us in our efforts. In solidarity, Your SHARE Team (Carrie, Heather, Jackie, Jim, and Tay) Tweets by princeton_share Footer Safety Alert Emergency Exit Click the red "Exit this site" button in the upper right corner or tap the escape button on your keyboard twice at any time to leave our website immediately. Upon doing so, your web browser will open to weather.com. Special Detailed Instructions If you could be harmed by someone over visiting this site, make sure you know how to erase your browser history, and only view this site using your browser's private mode. Ok, I understand After Hours Services for Emergent Matters Call 609-258-3310 Available 24/7 for emergent matters. Please check our after hours information. Contact Us Supportive Resources Request an Appointment SHARE G14 McCosh Health Center Washington Road, Princeton, NJ 08544 Phone: 609-258-3310 Email: share@princeton.edu Facebook Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University