Skip to content Just added to your cart Qty: View cart () Continue shopping Submit Close search Search Log in Cart 0 items Return & Exchange Information Returns and Exchanges At the Columbia Climate School Shop, we have a 30 day exchange policy. If 30 days have gone by since your purchase, unfortunately we cannot offer you an exchange. To be eligible for an exchange, your item must be unused and in the same condition it was received. We require your order number or packing slip as proof of purchase to complete all exchanges. Your order number can be found in your order confirmation email. To initiate an exchange please contact CCS@grossmanmarketing.com. Please send all items for exchanges to: Columbia Climate School Shop c/o Grossman Marketing Group 21 Glenn St Lawrence, MA 01843 Shipping costs are non-refundable. Please note that we are not responsible for any returned item(s) lost or stolen while in transit to us. We suggest all returned item(s) be sent by a method that includes tracking. If you are shipping items valued over $75, please consider purchasing shipping insurance. Refunds (if applicable) No refunds, all sales are final. Exchanges (if applicable) If there is an error with your order, please send us an email at CCS@grossmanmarketing.com. We will ask you to send the items to the address listed above so we can replace them or send you the correct item(s). You will be provided with a free shipping label and will not be responsible for any additional charges due to errors we made. If an item is out of stock, a refund will be issued. Thank you, Columbia Climate School Shop Questions? Size Chart Return & Exchange Information Contact us Here! Payment methods American Express Apple Pay Diners Club Discover JCB Mastercard Visa © 2022, CCS Gift Shop Powered by Shopify Payment methods American Express Apple Pay Diners Club Discover JCB Mastercard Visa © 2022, CCS Gift Shop Powered by Shopify Use left/right arrows to navigate the slideshow or swipe left/right if using a mobile device Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh. Press the space key then arrow keys to make a selection.