Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri About Subscribe Search search search menu Topics Campus Research Students Teaching and Learning Alumni Community Impact Photos and Videos Accolades President Choi's Blog All Topics Archive Schools & Colleges MU College of Arts & Science MU Trulaske College of Business MU College of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources MU College of Education & Human Development MU College of Engineering MU School of Health Professions MU School of Journalism MU School of Law MU School of Medicine MU Sinclair School of Nursing MU College of Veterinary Medicine Events MIZZOU Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Contact & Advertise About For the Media About Subscribe Search search Campus | Community Impact | Photos and Videos Special Olympics Missouri brings State Summer Games to MU Athletes, coaches, families and special guests celebrated the opening ceremonies at MizzouRec. May 23, 2022 Contact: Jody Mitori, mitorij@missouri.edu Special Olympics Missouri’s State Summer Games opened with the parade of athletes on May 20, 2022, at Brewer Fieldhouse. University of Missouri football player Jalani Williams escorted the St. Louis metro area competitors in the parade. Read more about Williams’ summer work with Special Olympics Missouri in University of Missouri President Mun Choi’s blog. President Choi welcomed Special Olympics Missouri athletes to MU. In addition to the opening ceremonies, Mizzou hosted the Summer Games volleyball, aquatics and powerlifting competitions. Gov. Mike Parson (left); Boone County Presiding Commissioner Dan Atwill (third from right); Miss Kansas City 2022 Nicole Harrington, and Special Olympics Missouri Board of Directors Chair Cathy Bumb were also part of the opening ceremonies. Hundreds of Special Olympics Missouri athletes attended the opening ceremonies at MizzouRec. The 2022 Summer Games were the first time the competitions had been hosted at MU since 2014. The games brought more than 1,000 athletes and coaches to campus over the weekend. Corporal Joe Peart from Highway Patrol Troop I (right), a coach for Team Missouri track, carried the torch for the Law Enforcement Torch Run. He was joined by Brett Harper, Special Olympics Missouri’s Outstanding Athlete of the Year. MU Head Football Coach Eliah Drinkwitz (left), who officially opened the games, talked with Special Olympics Missouri Hall of Fame member Beth Brokamp and Williams (right) after the ceremonies. From left: President Choi, Coach Drinkwitz and Maurice Gipson, vice chancellor of Inclusion, Diversity and Equity (second from right); met athletes from Team Missouri who will be traveling to Orlando, Florida, to compete in the 2022 Special Olympics USA Games. Tweet Related Stories News Release Coming together for veterans Law and medical students team up at the Mizzou Law Veterans Clinic to secure disability benefits for Missouri veterans. Community Impact Mizzou Academy faculty help refugees College of Education faculty member Kimberly Kester teaches English to Afghan women and children. Campus They’re back Special Olympics Missouri State Summer Games come home this month to Mizzou. Students Urban garden takes root Campus community plot gives Tigers a hands-on learning opportunity. Subscribe to Show Me Mizzou Stay up-to-date on all things Mizzou when you subscribe to the Show Me Mizzou newsletter. Issues will arrive in your inbox every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Subscribe Contact us Joint Office of Strategic Communications and Marketing digitalpubs@missouri.edu 329 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-8390 Resources Accolades Archive Events Submit a Story Idea Submit an accolade Find Info For Students Faculty Families Alumni Media MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office for Civil Rights & Title IX. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy