Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri About Subscribe Search search search menu Topics Campus Research Students Teaching and Learning Alumni Community Impact Photos and Videos Accolades President Choi's Blog All Topics Archive Schools & Colleges MU College of Arts & Science MU Trulaske College of Business MU College of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources MU College of Education & Human Development MU College of Engineering MU School of Health Professions MU School of Journalism MU School of Law MU School of Medicine MU Sinclair School of Nursing MU College of Veterinary Medicine Events MIZZOU Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Contact & Advertise About For the Media About Subscribe Search search News Release | Research | Teaching and Learning How to build an ‘explainable AI’ framework to speed up the innovation process A nearly $4.9 million grant from the U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center (ERDC) is supporting the project by University of Missouri engineers. While Matt Maschmann (left) focuses on the integration of AI and machine learning into materials processing, Derek T. Anderson is working alongside him to help make AI more intelligent by determining how to better integrate human knowledge into the artificial world. May 17, 2022 Contact: Eric Stann, 573-882-3346, StannE@missouri.edu Derek T. Anderson (left) and Matt Maschmann More than a century has passed since Thomas Edison developed the first electric light bulb, yet Edison’s hallmark approach of ‘trial and error’ to reach his discovery still remains a large part of today’s inventions. Now, a team of engineers at the University of Missouri is embodying the age-old adage of “work smarter, not harder” by using artificial intelligence (AI). Supported by a two-year, $4.875 million grant from the U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center (ERDC), the team from the MU College of Engineering, including Derek T. Anderson and Matt Maschmann, are developing a theoretical framework around “explainable AI” to describe how the next-generation of AI can be integrated into the innovation process for designing new and existing materials — while also securing the trust of humans along the way. Maschmann, an associate professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering, knows this process well. For example, he’s been working with carbon nanotubes since 2003, yet Maschmann said their full potential as an engineering material is far from being realized. The same, he said, can be true for many material systems. Therefore, one of the MU team’s goals is finding a way to accelerate the discovery process by helping make better quality materials in a shorter period of time. To do this, the team is starting with how to integrate AI and machine learning into the process, said Maschmann, whose passion for developing materials began in the early 2000s during graduate school. Derek T. Anderson (left) and Matt Maschmann look at a material in the Materials Characterization and Fabrication Lab located in Lafferre Hall on the University of Missouri campus. “One of the more pressing challenges in the development of new materials, or optimization of existing materials, is the time required by the processing and characterization steps,” Maschmann said. “Making discoveries takes quite a bit of time and money. For instance, each step of a process may take a day or longer to accomplish. Therefore, in a traditional laboratory environment, scientists will repeat a process multiple times in an attempt to obtain a specific structure or property for a material guided by intuition and previous knowledge. However, if we can introduce machine learning algorithms and AI into the process, it could drastically reduce the time needed to obtain material properties of interest. My hope is this project will greatly increase the rate of discovery for developing materials while also increasing our fundamental understanding of these processes.” The team from the MU College of Engineering who will be working on the project supported by this grant. While Maschmann focuses on the integration of AI and machine learning into materials processing, Anderson, an associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science, is working alongside him to help make AI more intelligent by determining how to better integrate human knowledge into the artificial world. For instance, Anderson said while material scientists, chemists and physicists have vast knowledge about the physical world, most AI and machine learning do not yet share that same level of intelligence. “Therefore, we’re looking at how do we design the next-generation of AI and machine learning to take advantage of the existing knowledge that people have,” Anderson said. “Then, we want to use that knowledge to intelligently grow AI to be able to design smarter materials. While our efforts are focused on the ‘explainability’ side, and helping scientists and domain experts understand how these processes work, we hope to make AI smarter for everyone’s benefit in the process.” Editor’s Note: The content of the grant is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the funding agencies. Visit the University of Missouri College of Engineering to learn how the college is celebrating its 150th anniversary in 2022. MU College of Engineering Tweet Related Stories News Release MU study finds health benefits of ‘aging in place’ at TigerPlace Care at independent living facility helps older adults avoid declines in physical, mental and cognitive health outcomes. News Release Coming together for veterans Law and medical students team up at the Mizzou Law Veterans Clinic to secure disability benefits for Missouri veterans. News Release Traumatic societal events may undermine classroom behavior interventions for certain groups, MU study finds News Release Modifying the body’s immune system to help treat Type 1 diabetes Scientists at University of Missouri collaborate with Harvard, Georgia Tech to develop a novel diabetes treatment involving transplanting pancreas cells that produce insulin. Subscribe to Show Me Mizzou Stay up-to-date on all things Mizzou when you subscribe to the Show Me Mizzou newsletter. Issues will arrive in your inbox every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Subscribe Contact us Joint Office of Strategic Communications and Marketing digitalpubs@missouri.edu 329 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-8390 Resources Accolades Archive Events Submit a Story Idea Submit an accolade Find Info For Students Faculty Families Alumni Media MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office for Civil Rights & Title IX. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy