Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Showcase Home Schedule Events Academic Showcase Submission Guidelines Submit Abstract Presenting Your Research Abstract Review GPSA Research Exposition Prepare and Submit Abstracts Presenting Your Research at GPSA Scholarships 2021 Award Winners Distinguished Faculty Address State of the University Address 3-Minute Thesis Legacy of Excellence Lecture Crimson Reads Celebrating Excellence Banquet Showcase for Undergraduate Research Awards Sahlin Eminent Faculty Award V. Lane Rawlins Distinguished Lifetime Service Award Legacy of Excellence Award Presenter of the Distinguished Faculty Address Sahlin Faculty Excellence Awards Faculty Mid-Career Award President’s Distinguished Teaching Award for Career-Track Faculty Faculty Diversity Award Innovation and Entrepreneurship Award President’s Employee Excellence Awards Newly tenured and/or promoted faculty, 2022 Committees Academic Showcase Committee Steering Committee Members facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Showcase Distinguished Faculty Address Distinguished Faculty Address Recognizing a faculty member’s exemplary achievement The annual Distinguished Faculty Address honors a faculty member who has risen to the front ranks of his or her discipline through achievements in research, scholarship, and teaching. 2022 Address Keri McCarthy Professor, School of Music Mon., March 21, 4:00 p.m. Kimbrough Concert Hall Reception to follow, Room 115 The event can be experienced again at this link: https://youtu.be/sMlNB1fH1sc?t=1058 The Power of Live Music in a Post-COVID World Discover music from the past and today with Professor Keri McCarthy, Core Fulbright Scholar and internationally recognized chamber musician, soloist, teacher, and clinician. The COVID-19 pandemic made live musical performances less accessible to many people. Professor McCarthy will discuss how live music creates a sense of shared experience, uniting diverse and even divergent populations. As people emerge from their COVID silos, live music can play a powerful role in strengthening communities worldwide. With the help of all-star faculty ensembles, Professor McCarthy will take you on a toe-tapping exploration of the role of music in local and global communities. She and her colleagues will present music that spans two centuries, four continents, and a multitude of genres. Her address will not only discuss, but demonstrate, the immeasurable value of musical performance. The following faculty members will perform at the event: Julie Wieck, soprano, and Elena Panchenko, piano Aaron Agulay, tenor, and Yuna Roh, piano The Palouse Trio: Christiano Rodrigues, violin, Ruth Boden, cello, and Fabio Menchetti, piano Faculty Brass Quintet: David Turnbull and Ashley Swanson, trumpet, Martin King, horn, A.J. Miller, trombone, and Chris Dickey, tuba Jacqueline Wilson, bassoon Greg Yasinitsky, saxophone; Cesar Haas, guitar; Dave Bjur, bass; Darryl Singleton, drums Keri McCarthy, oboe The address will feature compositions by faculty members Scott Blasco and Greg Yasinitsky, as well as Yii Kah Hoe, a 2022-23 Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence from Malaysia About Professor McCarthy Keri McCarthy has built global awareness of music from Asia and the United States. Her work has resulted in performances and presentations worldwide dedicated to Asian composers and their music. It has also yielded 18 newly commissioned works for oboe or wind quintet and four commercially-released albums sharing music from Asian and Asian-American artists. In 2011 a Core Fulbright Scholarship took McCarthy to Thailand to study contemporary music. She later co-founded the Light through Music project, introducing oboe and bassoon to musicians in Myanmar. In 2016 she co-founded the Pan Pacific Ensemble, a wind quintet that has commissioned and recorded works from Asian and Asian-American composers. McCarthy founded OctOboeFest NW, which provides high-school- and college-aged oboists opportunities to learn from nationally recognized musicians. Institutions across the Northwest host the event. A service project that she co-founded brings instruments and education to underserved populations. McCarthy advises WSU’s Fulbright Student Association. Previous Presenters of the Distinguished Faculty Address 2021 Amit Bandyopadhyay Professor, School of Mechanical and Materials Engineering 2020 Patricia Hunt Meyer Distinguished Professor, School of Molecular Biosciences 2019 Maureen Schmitter-Edgecombe Professor, Department of Psychology 2018 Susmita Bose Professor, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture 2017 Douglas R. Call Professor, College of Veterinary Medicine 2016 Michael K. Skinner Professor, College of Arts and Sciences 2015 Gerald B. Berthiaume Professor, College of Arts and Sciences 2014 Raymond Reeves Professor, School of Molecular Biosciences, College of Veterinary Medicine 2013 Kenneth L. Nash Professor, Department of Chemistry, College of Arts and Sciences Complete list and videos of award winners