Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri About Subscribe Search search search menu Topics Campus Research Students Teaching and Learning Alumni Community Impact Photos and Videos Accolades President Choi's Blog All Topics Archive Schools & Colleges MU College of Arts & Science MU Trulaske College of Business MU College of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources MU College of Education & Human Development MU College of Engineering MU School of Health Professions MU School of Journalism MU School of Law MU School of Medicine MU Sinclair School of Nursing MU College of Veterinary Medicine Events MIZZOU Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Contact & Advertise About For the Media About Subscribe Search search Accolades | Campus | Community Impact | News Release | Students MU rises among national public universities and best value rankings for second consecutive year Mizzou jumped 13 spots in best value rankings, remaining No. 1 value among public national universities in neighboring states. Sept. 13, 2021 Contact: Christian Basi, 573-882-4430, BasiC@missouri.edu The University of Missouri has the No. 12 best ranked value among all other public universities within the U.S. The University of Missouri continues to rise in national rankings and is making its mark as a university that gives students a good bang for their buck. In this year’s U.S. News and World Report rankings, MU continued a positive trend moving 13 spots to No. 72 in best value of national universities. Among public national universities, MU ranked No. 12 as a best value and No. 1 among public national universities in neighboring states (Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Kentucky and Tennessee.) Other rankings also were positive as MU moved up two spots to 58 among national public universities and improved to 122 among all universities, continuing its upward trend for the second year in a row. “MU is on a bold, transformative trajectory, and these new rankings demonstrate the hard work of our faculty and staff to create the best possible environment for learning and research discoveries,” said Mun Choi, president of the university. “We are not resting; we continue to aggressively push forward and improve so that we can ensure our students will be competitive in the global workforce.” A veteran is honored at the University of Missouri Veterans Day wreath laying ceremony at Memorial Union on Nov. 11, 2019. Mizzou is currently ranked the 73rd most veteran friendly campus in the country, a 13 rank improvement from last year. Mizzou was also lauded for its veteran friendly campus, moving up 13 spots to No. 73. Two years ago, MU was ranked No. 99 in this category. “Those who have served our country deserve to have a campus that is welcoming and understands the sacrifices they have made,” said Robert Ross, director of the MU Veterans Center who is a veteran himself. “Many faculty and staff know the challenges associated with transitioning from military service to civilian life and being a college student. We take pride in serving our student veterans and ensuring they know the resources that are available to them on campus.” To achieve these improved rankings, MU faculty and staff have been working to address areas important to students and parents over the last several months. Only 50% of students who graduate from Mizzou have debt, and those who do incur debt saw their federal student debt load decrease this past year to an average of $21,275. “When graduates and their families don’t have a heavy burden of debt, it significantly increases their ability to solidify their financial footing quickly and sets them up for success,” said Latha Ramchand, provost and executive vice chancellor for academic affairs. “We take a lot of pride in our ability to keep tuition and fees low, while preparing our students to be successful in their chosen field. We have seen increases in our retention, graduate and job placements rates, but these are more impactful when the debt burden is reduced as well.” Last year, the 6-year graduation rate improved to 73%, and the retention rate increased to 89%. Tweet Related Stories News Release MU study finds health benefits of ‘aging in place’ at TigerPlace Care at independent living facility helps older adults avoid declines in physical, mental and cognitive health outcomes. News Release Coming together for veterans Law and medical students team up at the Mizzou Law Veterans Clinic to secure disability benefits for Missouri veterans. News Release Traumatic societal events may undermine classroom behavior interventions for certain groups, MU study finds News Release How to build an ‘explainable AI’ framework to speed up the innovation process A nearly $4.9 million grant from the U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center (ERDC) is supporting the project by University of Missouri engineers. Subscribe to Show Me Mizzou Stay up-to-date on all things Mizzou when you subscribe to the Show Me Mizzou newsletter. Issues will arrive in your inbox every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Subscribe Contact us Joint Office of Strategic Communications and Marketing digitalpubs@missouri.edu 329 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-8390 Resources Accolades Archive Events Submit a Story Idea Submit an accolade Find Info For Students Faculty Families Alumni Media MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office for Civil Rights & Title IX. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy