Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri About Subscribe Search search search menu Topics Campus Research Students Teaching and Learning Alumni Community Impact Photos and Videos Accolades President Choi's Blog All Topics Archive Schools & Colleges MU College of Arts & Science MU Trulaske College of Business MU College of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources MU College of Education & Human Development MU College of Engineering MU School of Health Professions MU School of Journalism MU School of Law MU School of Medicine MU Sinclair School of Nursing MU College of Veterinary Medicine Events MIZZOU Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Contact & Advertise About For the Media About Subscribe Search search Alumni | Campus | Students | Teaching and Learning A place to play — and learn The School of Health Professions recently dedicated its inclusive playground — a space that encourages equal access to play for all and provides hands-on learning opportunities for MU students. Mizzou’s inclusive playground is open to all School of Health Professions-associated programs, including use by adult clients in the physical and occupational therapy programs. The inclusive playground is designed to encourage talking — allowing children to play while also inadvertently working on their language skills. The communication board is a central part of the playground and was funded by the MU National Student Speech Language Hearing Association chapter and the SHP service fraternity, Sigma Eta Rho. One group that uses the inclusive playground are students at the Robert G. Combs Preschool. The preschool opened in 2000 and provides services to children ages 2 to 5 with a variety of communication delays or disorders. Support for the playground was provided by several major donors: The Campbell Family; Jack and Debora Lay; The Audrey J. Walton & Ann Walton Kroenke Charitable Foundation; and Greta and Kim Hull. May 23, 2022 Contact: Deidra Ashley, ashleyde@missouri.edu No matter the age or ability, most children love to play. To ensure equal access to recreation and provide hands-on learning experiences that use play as a mode of therapy, the University of Missouri School of Health Professions recently built an inclusive playground. Nestled in the courtyard between Mizzou’s Lewis and Clark Halls, the School of Health Professions’ (SHP) new inclusive playground inspires people of all ages and abilities to do some exploring of their own. The space, which is available to SHP-related programs, features tiger paw footprints that lead to wheelchair-accessible structures, towers that include a Braille station and a music keyboard and drums. Swings adapt to various mobility levels, an enclosed merry-go-round ensures safety and a basketball hoop adjusts to many heights. A communication board helps children identify and share what they’d like to do, or where they’d like to play. “It’s important for children of all abilities to get outside and be active,” said Christi Baker, associate clinical professor and director of the Robert G. Combs Language Preschool. “Studies have shown that children who have speech and language challenges are more vocal when they’re moving and playing — especially outside, which brings new experiences to talk about. This space on Mizzou’s campus helps encourage that.” Plans for the playground began around 2014, and it officially opened in 2020, just before the coronavirus pandemic hit. The School of Health Professions recently held a dedication ceremony to celebrate the impact the playground has on our students, campus and children in our community. Lauren Laur’s son, Gavin, is a big fan of the inclusive playground. “He loves playing in the boat with other preschoolers and pretending the student clinicians are sharks trying to get them,” Laur said. “We went to Tiger Bounce recently for a friend’s birthday party, and I was amazed by his confidence and independence while navigating the indoor play structure there.” A benefit to patients and students “As a mom of a child who uses the inclusive playground, and as a professor in the School of Health Professions, I’ve seen firsthand the benefits this resource has to our community and our students,” said Lauren Laur, assistant clinical professor. “There have been significant improvements in my son’s confidence and communication skills while playing on the playground.” In her role as a professor within the Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences (SLHS) department, Laur observes MU students as they work with children on the playground. “The playground is an important tool for our student clinicians and is something that sets the Mizzou SLHS experience apart,” she said. “It’s so rewarding to watch the graduate students learn how to build connections between the preschoolers using the playground as their speech therapy room and the playground equipment as their therapy materials.” The Mizzou students love it, too. “I went into this profession because I wanted to help people,” said graduate student Molly Ross. “The inclusive playground helps our clients and is a hands-on experience most student clinicians don’t get. It’s so exciting to see my patients break through communication barriers while we’re using the playground.” The inclusive playground is just one of many hands-on learning activities in the School of Health Professions. “We’re so grateful to have this outdoor space as another hands-on learning tool, and to be able to use it to impact our clients,” Baker said. “As our young clients grow their communication and social skills, our student clinicians develop, too. It’s truly a win-win!” What is an inclusive playground? Inclusive playgrounds are designed to help children who have communication delays or disorders play outside in a safe environment. With specified equipment designed to encourage talking, children can play while also inadvertently working on their language skills. Mizzou’s inclusive playground is open to all SHP-associated programs, including use by adult clients in the physical and occupational therapy programs. Many SHP students also use the space around the playground to take a break, study and meet with friends. MU School of Health Professions Tweet Related Stories Campus Mizzou honors those who gave their all The University of Missouri has long recognized the men and women who made the final sacrifice in defense of the United States. Students Making a difference one can of paint at a time Law student’s creative passion for redesigning interior spaces augments his law education. Community Impact Special Olympics Missouri brings State Summer Games to MU Athletes, coaches, families and special guests celebrated the opening ceremonies at MizzouRec. Students Money matters The Office for Financial Success and its peer financial coaches help MU students move toward financial freedom. Subscribe to Show Me Mizzou Stay up-to-date on all things Mizzou when you subscribe to the Show Me Mizzou newsletter. Issues will arrive in your inbox every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Subscribe Contact us Joint Office of Strategic Communications and Marketing digitalpubs@missouri.edu 329 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-8390 Resources Accolades Archive Events Submit a Story Idea Submit an accolade Find Info For Students Faculty Families Alumni Media MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office for Civil Rights & Title IX. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy