Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri About Subscribe Search search search menu Topics Campus Research Students Teaching and Learning Alumni Community Impact Photos and Videos Accolades President Choi's Blog All Topics Archive Schools & Colleges MU College of Arts & Science MU Trulaske College of Business MU College of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources MU College of Education & Human Development MU College of Engineering MU School of Health Professions MU School of Journalism MU School of Law MU School of Medicine MU Sinclair School of Nursing MU College of Veterinary Medicine Events MIZZOU Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Contact & Advertise About For the Media About Subscribe Search search Campus Mizzou honors those who gave their all The University of Missouri has long recognized the men and women who made the final sacrifice in defense of the United States. Campus A place to play — and learn The School of Health Professions recently dedicated its inclusive playground — a space that encourages equal access to play for all and provides hands-on learning opportunities for MU students. Campus Employees share why they love working at Mizzou It’s Staff Recognition Week at the University of Missouri. To celebrate, 10 Tigers share why they love working at Mizzou and which moments have made the biggest impact. Featured Stories Community Impact Special Olympics Missouri brings State Summer Games to MU Athletes, coaches, families and special guests celebrated the opening ceremonies at MizzouRec. Students Making a difference one can of paint at a time Law student’s creative passion for redesigning interior spaces augments his law education. Research Researcher studying ways to maximize environmental benefits of green algae Zhiqiang Hu explores sustainable solutions of the natural, renewable resource. Students Money matters The Office for Financial Success and its peer financial coaches help MU students move toward financial freedom. Read More Stories More from Show Me Mizzou Photos and Videos Photo gallery: Spring 2022 commencement The University of Missouri recently celebrated the accomplishments of 5,828 students with more than 6,360 degrees at MU’s spring commencement ceremonies. See photos from the weekend's events. Accolades Savannah Feterl, Isabella Ledonne and Elise Vahle receive inaugural Hocks Memorial Scholarships Staff Advisory Council announces Outstanding Staff Awards Putting students first Drury named new dean of the College of Arts and Science View all accolades Upcoming Events June 1 2022 Summer Program Orientation June 10 The Cat in the Hat June 10 The Cat in the Hat June 11 The Cat in the Hat More events Students Student designs selected for new Mizzou Store merch Three textile and apparel management students recently won the College Vault Collection competition. Their custom apparel will be available for purchase in The Mizzou Store this fall. Mizzou in the News 'It didn't feel like $80 worth of food': Inflation is making it hard to make healthy food choices MSN.com Reinventing the dog crate? This Hempfield native hopes to make it apartment-friendly Pittsburgh Tribune-Review Using humor in the workplace can be tricky for some women, study finds The Hill Back to the Future COMO Magazine Subscribe to Show Me Mizzou Stay up-to-date on all things Mizzou when you subscribe to the Show Me Mizzou newsletter. Issues will arrive in your inbox every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Subscribe Contact us Joint Office of Strategic Communications and Marketing digitalpubs@missouri.edu 329 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-8390 Resources Accolades Archive Events Submit a Story Idea Submit an accolade Find Info For Students Faculty Families Alumni Media MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office for Civil Rights & Title IX. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy