Home Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Contact Us Search Our Site Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Hours of Operation Monday - Friday | 8am - 5pm Closed on University-observed holidays Search website... Future Students Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Immunizations Services Current Students Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Influenza Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Von’s Vision Former Students Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Medical Records Parents/Guardians Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Forms Health Insurance Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Records Services Meet The Staff Administration Business Services Laboratory Medical Staff Nutrition Services Pharmacy Physical Therapy Radiology Appointments/Patient Portal COVID-19 Testing Information General Information Which COVID tests are being offered? The below tests are available to all TAMU students, faculty and staff: Antibody blood/serology test ($): available for a minimal charge at Student Health Services; determines the likelihood of a previous COVID-19 infection Curative nasal swab/PCR: self-collect nasal swab funded by Texas A&M University System; determines a COVID-19 infection SHS nasal swab/PCR ($): self-collect nasal swab available for a minimal charge at Student Health Services; determines an active COVID-19 infection Which test should I choose? Curative nasal swab and saliva sample are funded by Texas A&M University and free of charge. Antibody blood/serology test and SHS nasal swab are available at Student Health Services for a minimal charge. Insurance will be billed for these tests. Insurance may cover the cost in full. Any remaining balances not covered by insurance or for uninsured patients will be paid for by Texas A&M University funding. An SHS medical provider will follow up with the patient and assist in his/her care before and after results are available, and will be able to answer any questions the individual may have regarding COVID-19. If I think I have been exposed to COVID, when should I get tested? Visit the CDC website for information regarding when to test post-exposure. Where can I get a COVID test? Appointments are required for the following test options: Curative nasal swab appointments: tx.ag/covidtest Student Health Services testing: Antibody blood/serology and/or nasal swab PCR (available via self-referral at the SHS Lab). Schedule your COVID test through our Patient Portal. Cost Is there a cost associated with COVID testing? Antibody blood/serology test ($): available at Student Health Services; pricing outlined below Curative nasal swab/PCR: funded by Texas A&M University System SHS nasal swab/PCR ($): available at Student Health Services; pricing outlined below SHS COVID tests: There is a charge associated with SHS testing, yet insurance may reimburse fully or partially for the cost of the test. Any remaining balances not covered by insurance or for uninsured patients will be paid for by Texas A&M University funding. Please contact Patient Services at (979) 458-8310 for more information. Student Testing Prices COVID Antibody: $100 (effective 03/15/2020) COVID Spike Antibody: $75 (effective 10/20/2021) COVID – PCR: $112 (effective 09/01/2021) COVID – PCR / Influenza A&B: $100 (effective 09/01/2021) Faculty/Staff Testing Prices COVID Antibody: $120 (effective 03/15/2020) COVID Spike Antibody: $100 (effective 10/20/2021) COVID – PCR: $150 (effective 09/01/2021) COVID – PCR / Influenza A&B: $120 (effective 09/01/2021) Symptoms If I have COVID symptoms, should I get tested? COVID tests are available for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Please note that symptoms may be due to influenza or other respiratory illnesses. If you are experiencing symptoms, it is recommended that you consider making an appointment with an SHS medical provider. What should I do if I think I may be positive? If you have a positive close contact or are experiencing symptoms, please follow Texas A&M University guidelines. What to Expect What will the testing process look like? Antibody blood/serology test: Schedule your COVID test through our Patient Portal. When you arrive for your test, you will be directed to the SHS Lab. Wait times will vary. During your appointment, you will receive a blood draw from an SHS phlebotomist. Collection typically takes less than 5 minutes. Results will be communicated through the SHS Patient Portal. Curative nasal swab/PCR: Register online to get a testing time window. Check in at the testing site during your testing window. A number of physical controls have been implemented to ensure your safety. You will be guided by staff regarding how to properly self-collect your sample. The entire collection process typically takes less than 5 minutes. Results will be sent to your email. SHS nasal swab/PCR: Schedule your COVID test through our Patient Portal. When you arrive for your test, you will be directed to the SHS Lab. Wait times will vary. During your appointment, you will be guided by staff regarding how to properly self-collect your anterior nasal swab sample. This involves inserting a small swab less than an inch into each nostril. The entire collection process typically takes less than 5 minutes. Results will be communicated through the SHS Patient Portal. Results How long do results take, and how can I access them? Results can take 36-48 hours during the week, but there may be a delay on tests done late in the day on Fridays. Antibody blood/serology test and SHS nasal swab test results: Results will be sent to you from an SHS medical provider via secure message on the SHS Patient Portal. Curative nasal swab test results: Results are sent to the email you provided during registration, and will be sent from Curative, Inc. What should I do while I await my test result? If you believe that you may have the virus or have been exposed to the virus, follow Texas A&M University guidance. It is recommended that you continue to wear a mask, stay at least 6 feet from others, wash your hands, avoid crowds, and take other steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19. If you are unvaccinated, consider receiving the vaccine. Currently enrolled students, faculty and staff can receive the COVID-19 vaccine at SHS. Schedule an appointment here: tx.ag/covidvaccine. What happens if I receive a positive test result? If you get tested and receive a positive test result: You will be contacted by phone, email, or secure message. Seek emergency medical care immediately if you show any of these signs: trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, bluish lips or face. For now, stay in isolation in your residence and away from other people. Follow Texas A&M guidance for home isolation. What happens if I receive a negative test result? If you tested negative (test must occur day 5 or later after exposure), and are showing no symptoms, please note the following: SARS-CoV-2 was not detected in your specimen. You should not immediately act as though you are free of COVID-19 or other infectious conditions. Follow CDC guidelines. Continue to watch for symptoms until 14 days after exposure. If you begin developing symptoms, immediately self-isolate. Consider scheduling an appointment with an SHS medical provider to discuss next steps. It is recommended that you continue to wear a mask, stay at least 6 feet from others, wash your hands, avoid crowds, and take other steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A PDF of the above FAQ can be found here: COVID-19 Testing FAQ Site Footer About Us Contact Us Patient Rights and Privacy Policies and Statements SHS Staff Resources Title IX Texas A&M University Copyright 2022 • Student Health Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT