Home Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Contact Us Search Our Site Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Hours of Operation Monday - Friday | 8am - 5pm Closed on University-observed holidays Search website... Future Students Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Immunizations Services Current Students Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Influenza Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Von’s Vision Former Students Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Medical Records Parents/Guardians Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Forms Health Insurance Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Records Services Meet The Staff Administration Business Services Laboratory Medical Staff Nutrition Services Pharmacy Physical Therapy Radiology Appointments/Patient Portal Appointments/Patient Portal If you are experiencing a medical emergency (e.g., severe chest pain, shortness of breath, serious injury), call 911 or visit a local emergency room. Patient Portal Features: Make appointments for general medical care: In-person and telemedicine appointments are available Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm After-hours telemedicine appointments are available Monday-Friday, 5pm-7pm Schedule a COVID-19 vaccination and/or COVID-19 test Obtain lab results/read secure messages sent by an SHS medical provider Upload health insurance information For specialty visits or if you have questions about scheduling, please contact Patient Services at (979) 458-8310, Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm. To see more features available on the patient portal, click here. Before Your Appointment In-Person Visit Fill out the below forms on the Patient Portal: Consent to Treat (first-time patients only) Financial Practices (first-time patients only) Privacy Practices (first-time patients only) Appointment Questionnaire (varies based on reason for visit) Locate any health insurance information and bring it with you to SHS (or upload to the Patient Portal in advance). You will be asked for any insurance information at the time of check in. It is important to bring the insurance card. Please note that insurance is not required to utilize services at SHS, but can help reduce the out-of-pocket cost. Bring a list of current medications. Please specify the name of the medication, dosage amount, and how often it is taken. Provide this list to the nurse assisting during the visit. Telemedicine/Virtual Visit Fill out the below forms on the Patient Portal: Consent to Treat (first-time patients only) Financial Practices (first-time patients only) Privacy Practices (first-time patients only) PHQ-9 and/or GAD-7 (located in the “Surveys” tab; complete prior to appointment time so your appointment is not delayed) Appointment Questionnaire (varies based on reason for visit) Locate any health insurance information and upload it to the Patient Portal. Insurance information can be saved in the “Insurance Card” tab. Please note that insurance is not required to utilize services at SHS, but can help reduce the out-of-pocket cost. Prepare a list of current medications. Please specify the name of the medication, dosage amount, and how often it is taken. Provide this list to the nurse assisting during the visit. Prior to your appointment time, a secure message will be sent via the Patient Portal that includes the zoom meeting ID and passcode specific to your appointment. During Your Appointment In-Person Visit Medical Clinic appointments: Once you arrive at the appropriate clinic area, the nursing staff will perform a quick physical assessment (temperature, blood pressure, pulse) and ask a few questions about your illness symptoms or medical need. A medical provider will then visit with you and discuss your illness further, ask about medical history, then perform an appropriate exam for your illness. A comprehensive exam is usually done as part of an annual physical exam. Average appointment length: 15 minutes. Based on your needs, some appointments may be extended to accommodate. If we anticipate an extended delay, SHS staff will notify you and offer options to suit your schedule. If lab work or imaging tests are recommended, the provider will discuss these with you, including the cost, whether the tests are available at SHS, how results will be received, and how soon to expect results. For individuals with multiple medical concerns, time constraints may prevent the provider from addressing all concerns. Another visit may be scheduled for further evaluation. At the end of your appointment, you should understand your diagnosis and the proposed plan of care. Any recommended medications can be purchased conveniently at the SHS Pharmacy or elsewhere, if desired. A follow-up appointment may be arranged before you leave. After your visit, you may continue to follow-up with your provider by phone or through secure messaging via the Patient Portal. Nutrition Services, Physical Therapy, Preventive Medicine appointments: the structure of each appointment varies based on the needs of the student. Radiology appointments: Apparel: If your apparel may cause an interference with the xray or ultrasound exam, you may be asked to change into a gown or shorts provided to you upon arrival. During the exam: Depending on the needs of the exam, you may be asked to lie down on a table or sit in a chair for the duration of the exam. Ultrasound exams: warmed gel will be put on the body part to be scanned; a smooth probe will take photos as it is moved across your skin; exam can take 15 minutes – 1 hour to complete. Xray exams: the appropriate body part will be lined up under the xray machine where images will be taken; exam can take 15 – 30 minutes to complete. Telemedicine/Virtual Visit Medical Clinic appointments: Once you are connected with your medical provider, they will ask questions to confirm your location in Texas, your consent for the visit, and if you feel comfortable about speaking confidentially in your location. The medical provider will then visit with you and discuss your illness further, ask about medical history, then perform a limited exam. Since telemedicine does not allow for a close physical exam, most of the exam is visual. Comprehensive physical exams cannot be done through telemedicine. Sometimes an in-clinic follow-up exam is needed, and will be recommended during the visit. Average appointment length: 15 minutes. Based on your needs, some appointments may be extended to accommodate. If we anticipate an extended delay, SHS staff will notify you and offer options to suit your schedule. If lab work or imaging tests are recommended, the provider will discuss these with you, including the cost, whether the tests are available at SHS, how results will be received, and how soon to expect results. For individuals with multiple medical concerns, time constraints may prevent the provider from addressing all concerns. Another visit may be scheduled for further evaluation. At the end of your appointment, you should understand your diagnosis and the proposed plan of care. Any recommended medications can be purchased conveniently at the SHS Pharmacy or elsewhere, if desired. A follow-up appointment may be arranged before you end the visit. After your visit, you may continue to follow-up with your provider by phone or through secure messaging via the Patient Portal. Nutrition Services / Dietitian appointments: the structure of each appointment varies based on the needs of the student. Missed Appointment/Late Arrivals Please note that there will be a $25 no show/late arrival fee if a student does not show for his/her scheduled appointment. Students are encouraged to arrive 15 minutes early for their scheduled appointment to avoid the no show/late arrival fee. Resources For medical advice when SHS is closed, visit our Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care page for additional information. To access COVID-19 information (including testing and vaccination options), visit the SHS Coronavirus page. To learn more about the staff physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants at Student Health Services, visit the SHS Medical Staff webpage. Terms of Use I will not attempt to view or access information belonging to any other individual, and agree that doing so may violate Federal and State privacy legislation, as well as Texas A&M University privacy policies. I agree that any information which I submit on this website will be accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge. I understand that this information will become part of my Student Health Services medical record at Texas A&M University, and may be used in any medical care that I receive. Click to visit the Patient Portal Site Footer About Us Contact Us Patient Rights and Privacy Policies and Statements SHS Staff Resources Title IX Texas A&M University Copyright 2022 • Student Health Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT