Skip to Content Student Health Services Academic Health Sciences Center Home About Services Appointments Records Payments Insurance Forms Resources Locations Portal Previous Next Pharmacy Our staff is committed to helping with all of your pharmacy needs in a safe and convenient manner. Our location is now open and accessible to those wishing to shop within our pharmacy and convenience store – but don’t forget your mask, please! About Us The UCF Pharmacy is a state-of-the-art facility located inside the Health Center. Our Pharmacists are passionate about patient education and providing excellent customer service. Students, faculty, and staff are able to use the UCF Pharmacy for all of their prescription needs. Each prescription is monitored for duplicate therapy, drug allergies, and drug interactions. The pharmacy staff prides itself on the level of care they provide to each patient, offering individualized consultations regarding how and when to take medications, potential side effects, possible drug interactions, and written drug information for each prescription. For your convenience, the pharmacy also carries a wide selection of food, drinks, personal care products, and over-the-counter items. For Rx Shipping(Florida Only) Call the pharmacy to order your medications and discuss shipping options Prescriptions can be shipped with tracking and insurance Insurance The UCF Pharmacy takes over 100 different prescription insurance plans, so filling your prescription will be a snap! If your insurance plan requires a copay, payment is due at the time the prescription is picked up. Please note: Many insurance companies provide a special card for pharmacy use. If you are bringing in an insurance card, please make sure it has the RxBIN, RxPCN, ID#, and Group# on it. If your card does not have this information, it may just be for your medical coverage. You should have a separate card for your pharmacy benefits that will include these details. Example: Asthma Education Meet with our Pharmacists for a free consultation about the management of your asthma. Topics discussed include medication, triggers, long-term control vs. quick relief, and more! To schedule an appointment, please speak with a Pharmacy staff member. Convenience Store For your convenience, the pharmacy also carries a wide selection of food, drinks, personal care products, and specialty items. NEW! Place an order online for your OTC and convenience store items! The completed form will be sent to a member of our staff who will prepare your order and follow up with you at the phone number you provide for confirmation, order total, and payment processing (credit card only). Then all you need to do is stop by our location to pick it up! Start your order now. Flu Kit Don’t know what you need to alleviate your common cold symptoms? Just pick up one of our $5 flu kits. In it is everything you need to get over the common cold, including a decongestant, antihistamine, Tylenol, throat lozenges, tissues, and even chicken noodle soup! Travel Kit We custom-built our First Aid/ Travel kit to cover all the unforeseen circumstances life throws at you. For $20 It includes everything from bandages and Tylenol, up to gas and diarrhea relief; all in one convenient UCF zippered pouch! OTCs We stock a wide variety of Over the Counter drugs for all your health and well-being needs. We carry brand names as well as more affordable generic options. Medication Disposal Bring any unwanted or unused medications to the secure Drug Take Back boxes located in the UCF Pharmacy or the Student Union. The service is anonymous and for individual use. Boxes are secured to their locations, and once medications are placed inside, they are unretrievable. To be destroyed, the medications are collected by the DEA to be incinerated using the appropriate means as specified by the FDA. Why? Unwanted and unused medications are a public safety issue, leading to accidental poisoning, overdose, and abuse. Pharmaceutical drugs can be just as dangerous as street drugs when taken without a prescription or a doctor’s supervision. Unused prescription drugs thrown in the trash can be retrieved, abused, and/or illegally sold. These same medications could contaminate the water supply when flushed. Proper disposal of unused medications saves lives and protects the environment. What can be dropped off: Prescription Medications (both controlled and uncontrolled) Non-prescription medications (OTC) Vitamins, supplements, and herbals Medications for pets Electronic cigarette cartridges (be sure to remove the battery) What can NOT be dropped off: IV Fluid bags Syringes, needles, or other sharps Oxygen tanks Liquids and creams Electronic cigarette devices/batteries Frequently Asked Questions Phone Mon – Fri 8:00am – 5:00pm Phone 407-UCF-MEDS Fax 407-823-6756 Location Health Center, Room 108 Page Navigation About Us Insurance Asthma Education Convenience Store Medication Disposal FAQ Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Big Red Bus - Donat UCF Memory Mall More Events Page Navigation Home About Services Appointments Records Payments Insurance Forms Resources Locations Portal Contact Us Student Health Services Phone 407-823-2701 Location Health Center, Room 101 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida