Home Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Contact Us Search Our Site Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Hours of Operation Monday - Friday | 8am - 5pm Closed on University-observed holidays Search website... Future Students Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Immunizations Services Current Students Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Influenza Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Von’s Vision Former Students Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Medical Records Parents/Guardians Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Forms Health Insurance Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Records Services Meet The Staff Administration Business Services Laboratory Medical Staff Nutrition Services Pharmacy Physical Therapy Radiology Appointments/Patient Portal Coronavirus (COVID-19) Texas A&M University COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Vaccine + Testing Information VACCINE INFORMATION TESTING INFORMATION Frequently Asked Questions What services are offered at Student Health Services during this time? COVID-19 Vaccines: COVID-19 vaccines are available for TAMU students, faculty and staff. Due to decreased demand for COVID vaccinations and to reduce waste from unused partial vials, appointments are now only available on Mondays and Fridays. Schedule an appointment online at tx.ag/covidvaccine. COVID-19 Testing: The below COVID-19 tests are available to students, faculty and staff, and are available via self-referral: PCR (molecular) testing: to detect an active COVID-19 infection Antibody testing (Nuclear capsid antibody serology): to determine likely prior COVID-19 infection Spike Antibody testing (serology): to determine if antibodies were created in response to a COVID-19 vaccine and/or previous infection Please contact Patient Services at (979) 458-8310 or patient-services@shs.tamu.edu for more information. If I'm concerned that I may have COVID-19, should I go to Student Health Services? SHS is available for in-person and telemedicine appointments. Depending on your primary complaint, telemedicine may be available for you. Telemedicine enables you to consult a provider from home. Check with your health insurance provider, or visit the SHS Appointment page to schedule an appointment. If you are a student enrolled in the TAMU Student Health Insurance plan, MD Live is available for you (a medical visit copay applies). For any questions, please contact Patient Services at (979) 458-8310. What preventive actions can students take at this time? It is highly recommended that students continue to practice preventive actions to avoid illness. See below for recommended preventive actions: Get your COVID-19 vaccine and booster shot (when eligible). Vaccines are available at SHS for currently enrolled students, faculty and staff. Schedule an appointment to receive your COVID-19 vaccine here: https://tx.ag/covidvaccine. Practice physical distancing. Physical distancing means remaining out of congregate settings (crowded public places where close contact with others may occur), avoiding mass gatherings, and maintaining distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others when possible. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. It is highly recommended that unvaccinated individuals continue to wear masks when indoors or when physical distancing is not possible. Follow CDC guidelines regarding how to properly wear a face covering and learn how to make a cloth face covering here: cdc.gov/coronavirus. Face coverings can help protect you and those around you. Avoid touching eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Avoid sharing food, beverages, and utensils. Avoid close contact with those who may be ill. Stay home when you are sick or have flu symptoms. Cover cough/sneeze with a tissue or cough/sneeze into your elbow. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects or surfaces. Get your annual flu shot. What additional resources are available for students at this time? Academic HealthPlans is offering a Student Assistance Program (SAP) to all Texas A&M University System students, regardless if they are enrolled in the TAMU student health insurance plan. The SAP provides a 24/7 Care Center staffed by qualified and experienced professionals, life and wellbeing resources, and a variety of health/wellness resources and tools. Access the SAP here: https://myahpcare.personaladvantage.com/portal/welcome/sso. Company code is AHP1. Where can I find updated information? Texas A&M University updates: tamu.edu/coronavirus Brazos County Health District updates: brazoshealth.org/node/87 Department of State Health Services updates: dshs.texas.gov/coronavirus Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) updates: cdc.gov/coronavirus World Health Organization (WHO) updates: who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019 Texas A&M University International Student Services travel updates: http://iss.tamu.edu/Current-Students/Traveling-and-Coronavirus A PDF of the above FAQ can be found here: Coronavirus FAQ Site Footer About Us Contact Us Patient Rights and Privacy Policies and Statements SHS Staff Resources Title IX Texas A&M University Copyright 2022 • Student Health Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT