Home Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Contact Us Search Our Site Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Menu Student Health Services Division of Student Affairs Header Right Hours of Operation Monday - Friday | 8am - 5pm Closed on University-observed holidays Search website... Future Students Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Immunizations Services Current Students Appointments/Patient Portal Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Eligibility Forms Health Insurance Health Resources Immunizations Influenza Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Excuse Policy Medical Records Services Von’s Vision Former Students Charges/Payments Eligibility Forms Medical Records Parents/Guardians Charges/Payments Coronavirus (COVID-19) Forms Health Insurance Medical Emergencies and After Hours Care Medical Records Services Meet The Staff Administration Business Services Laboratory Medical Staff Nutrition Services Pharmacy Physical Therapy Radiology Appointments/Patient Portal COVID-19 Vaccine Information Vaccination Site Vaccination Site Location: Student Health Services (A.P. Beutel Health Center) Important Information: When arriving for your appointment, enter through the main entrance of the A.P. Beutel Health Center on Houston Street. Effective 02/21/2022: Due to decreased demand for COVID vaccinations and to reduce waste from unused partial vials, SHS will be offering COVID vaccines on Mondays and Fridays only. COVID-19 VACCINE APPOINTMENTS General Information What information is available regarding COVID vaccines in the state of Texas / at Texas A&M University? SHS is now providing COVID-19 vaccines and boosters for TAMU students, faculty and staff. Those who are eligible must book online. As of 02/21/2022, COVID-19 vaccine appointments are only being offered on Mondays and Fridays. Once your vaccination appointment is scheduled, SHS recommends that you fill out the appropriate vaccination form prior to your appointment in order to minimize your wait time. This form will also be available at the vaccination site if you are unable to fill it out in advance. Does TAMU require the COVID-19 vaccine? The COVID-19 vaccination is not required for students, faculty or staff. This voluntary vaccine is available to those who choose to receive it. SHS follows state and local health guidelines related to who is recommended to receive the vaccine. It is highly encouraged to speak with your primary care provider prior to scheduling an appointment to receive the vaccine, as every individual’s health care needs differ. During your appointment at our vaccination site, healthcare professionals will be administering the vaccines and available to answer any questions. Prior to the appointment, all individuals will fill out vaccine questionnaire which will be reviewed by staff. If at any time there may be a concern regarding an individual receiving the vaccine, it will be discussed with the individual during the appointment. What are side effects of receiving the vaccine? Common side effects include: On the arm where you got the shot: pain, redness and swelling Throughout the rest of the body: tiredness, headache, muscle pain, chills, fever and nausea What if I have an adverse reaction to the vaccine? If you have symptoms outside of the common ones mentioned or that last more than 3 days, then contact your primary care physician and report your reaction to: https://vaers.hhs.gov/. What should I do after I receive the vaccine? It takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination. You should keep using all the tools available to protect yourself and others until you are fully vaccinated. Visit the CDC website for information on what it means to be fully vaccinated. Can I get a booster shot or additional dose at SHS? SHS is now providing COVID-19 booster shots based on CDC booster eligibility. TAMU students, faculty and staff can choose between any of the COVID-19 boosters available (Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen). Vaccination appointments are only available on Mondays and Fridays, and can be scheduled online through our Patient Portal at tx.ag/COVIDvaccine. When am I considered fully vaccinated or up to date? Visit the CDC website for information regarding when an individual is considered fully vaccinated or up to date. How can I protect myself if I choose to not receive the vaccine? According to the CDC, there are a number of ways you can help slow the spread of COVID-19: Wear a mask that covers your nose and mouth to protect yourself and others. Stay six feet apart from others who don’t live with you. Avoid crowds and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Wash your hands often with soap and water. Use hand sanitizer if soap and water aren’t available. Appointments How can I get the vaccine? Appointments are offered for the vaccine and can be scheduled online through our Patient Portal at https://tx.ag/COVIDvaccine. What should I bring to my vaccination appointment? Individuals should bring their TAMU ID, health insurance information, and vaccination form (listed under “COVID Vaccination Forms”) to their appointment. To expedite your appointment, you are encouraged to bring a completed copy of the vaccination form to your appointment and upload your insurance information to the Patient Portal in advance. If you are returning for an additional dose, remember to bring your COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card with you to your appointment. If I receive my first dose of the Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine with SHS, do I need to schedule an appointment to receive the next dose? No – after you receive your first dose at the SHS vaccination site, staff members will schedule a day/time for your next dose based on the CDC recommended time frame and your personal schedule. If you are unsure regarding the details of your next appointment, please visit the Patient Portal and view the Appointments tab. Your upcoming appointment will be listed there. Contact Patient Services at (979) 458-8310 if you need further assistance or do not see your next immunization appointment listed. Cost Is there a cost to receive the vaccine? There is no charge for the COVID-19 vaccine itself. However, SHS will charge an administration fee to students, faculty and staff to cover the cost of SHS staff administering the vaccine. It is highly recommended that students bring their health insurance information to their appointment so the administration fee can be filed to insurance. Faculty and staff are required to bring their insurance information to their appointment. For patients that do not have health insurance, or for charges that are not covered by insurance, Texas A&M University funding will cover the cost of the COVID vaccine administration (i.e., no cost to you). Find detailed cost information below: Cost Information (effective 03/08/2021): Faculty/Staff: While there is no charge for the COVID vaccine, SHS will charge a $25 administration fee* that will be filed to your insurance provider. For charges not covered by insurance and for uninsured patients, Texas A&M University funding will cover the COVID vaccine administration fee (i.e., no cost to you). Students: While there is no charge for the COVID vaccine, SHS will charge a $15 administration fee* that will be filed to your insurance provider. For charges not covered by insurance and for uninsured patients, Texas A&M University funding will cover the COVID vaccine administration fee (i.e., no cost to you). *The COVID vaccine administration fee covers the cost for SHS staff to administer the vaccine. There is no cost to students, faculty or staff for the COVID vaccine itself. Any cost not covered by insurance will be paid for by Texas A&M University funding. Access a PDF version of the above content here: COVID-19 Vaccine Information Site Footer About Us Contact Us Patient Rights and Privacy Policies and Statements SHS Staff Resources Title IX Texas A&M University Copyright 2022 • Student Health Services | Division of Student Affairs • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT