Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford in the Sierra Menu Home Summer Family Camp Accommodations Rates Calendar Reservations Apply (New applicants) Waitlisted applicants Reservation holders FAQ Spring Alumni Programs Stanford in the Wild Speakers Healthy Living Retreat for Women Presenters Memorial Day Weekend Program Faculty/Staff Weekend Accommodations Rates Apply Your Stanford Sierra adventure Bring your Stanford spirit and escape to the serenity of calm blue water and the crisp mountain air. Main content start COVID-19 Stanford Sierra programs continue to be impacted by COVID-19, so you may see changes to our 2022 operations. We appreciate your patience during these difficult times. Explore the magnificent Sierra Nevada Located on the south shore of Lake Tahoe on Fallen Leaf Lake, Stanford Sierra Camp is your destination for your family getaway, alumni program, business meeting and more. Venture out and see everything the Sierra Nevada has in store. Summer family camp Stanford Sierra Camp’s summer program is the perfect time to take a break from the everyday with your loved ones. Your week in the magnificent Sierra Nevada will be filled with nonstop educational fun, new experiences and memories that will last your family a lifetime. Learn about Sierra Summer Camp Spring alumni programs During the spring, Stanford Sierra Camp works with partners on campus and at the Stanford Alumni Association to offer a variety of alumni programs that include Stanford in the Wild, Healthy Living Retreat for Women and Memorial Day Weekend. See spring alumni programs Faculty/Staff Weekend As a member of Stanford faculty or staff, you have the opportunity to bring your loved ones along to experience Stanford Sierra Camp during Faculty/Staff Weekend. Read about Faculty/Staff Weekend Planning your own event? Stanford Sierra Conference Center is the ideal venue for hosting your spring retreat, fall retreat or multi-day gathering for groups of up to 180. You’ll enjoy AV-equipped rooms that feature high-speed, wireless internet, and all against the backdrop of the beautiful Sierra Nevada. Learn about Stanford Sierra Conference Center Stanford Alumni Association Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305-6105 map Find an alum Check your alumni email Access SAA Member Card Give to Stanford Stanford Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Code of Conduct Events Featured Events Reunions Communities Clubs & Groups Young Alumni Students Reading & Resources News & Stories Learn STANFORD magazine Career Connections Newsletters Racial Justice Programs & Perks Alumni Perks Alumni Membership Sierra Programs Travel/Study Wine Collection Alumni store Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Stanford Associates Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations About About SAA Alumni Center Event Space Contact Us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top