Scholars Institute Fellows Program Supporting first-generation and lower-income students at Princeton since 2015 Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Scholars Institute Fellows Program Supporting first-generation and lower-income students at Princeton since 2015 Main Menu Menu Home About Us Submenu Program Benefits & Requirements Our Staff Meet the Fellows Submenu Staff & Faculty Fellows In the News Advising & Programs Submenu Mentorship Group Princeternship Winter Funding SIFPlay Weekly Programs Resources Submenu Employment Contact Alumni Graduate Students SubMenu Employment Prospective Students Staff and Faculty SubMenu Staff/Faculty Fellow Program Log in Search Search Scholars Institute Fellows Program Latest information related to COVID-19 In order to remain up to date with the latest news relating to the University's response to the coronavirus outbreak, please refer to the University's website. Welcome to Princeton's FLI Community! Welcome to Princeton's FLI Community!: Join Now Welcome to the Scholars Institute Fellows Program! Our programs works to provide mentorship, programming, and support to first-generation and/or lower-income students at Princeton. We offer a weekly mentorship group structure, co-curricular programming in the form of different workshops and events, and a variety of field trip opportunities to our participating SIFP fellows. We hope you will explore our website and learn about our mission, our leadership team, and the SIFP experience. Our Mission The Scholars Institute Fellows Program (SIFP) offers mentorship, academic enrichment, and a welcoming scholarly community to students hailing from backgrounds historically underrepresented at Princeton. In particular, we invite all first-generation and low-income students, as well as military veterans and transfer students, to apply to become SIFP Fellows. The Experience SIFP Fellows are part of a larger first-generation community of peers, staff and faculty at the University. The SIFP experience is comprised of monthly mentorship group meetings, co-curricular workshops, a summer enrichment experience and fun extracurricular activities! Our Team Meet the leadership team for the Scholars Institute Fellows Program. Over the past few years, our office staff has grown to seven members to accommodate the increasing SIFP program enrollment. Our staff offices can be found on the 3rd floor of 36 University Place in Suite 350. Footer Scholars Institute Fellows Program 36 University Place, Suite 350 Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Email: sifp@princeton.edu 609-258-1013 Footer menu Office of the Dean of the College Facebook Twitter Instagram Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University