Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs Student Involvement and Leadership Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Our Goals Our Staff SILC Workshops Student Organizations Select to follow link Get Involved SILC Workshops Student Organization Resources Select to follow link Student Organization Registration Rock Chalk Central 101 Funding Event Planning Civic Engagement Training Archives Student Organization Advisor Resources Rock Chalk Central Leadership Non-Traditional Students Select to follow link Non-Traditional Student Scholarships Non-Traditional Student Resources Contact Us Info for Prospective Student Organization Members Current Student Organizations myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs Student Involvement and Leadership Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Student Involvement and Leadership Center The Student Involvement and Leadership Center (SILC) provides impactful co-curricular experiences through educational, social, and community-building programs and events. We engage in each student's identity development by providing mentorship, resources, and involvement opportunities in order for students to be empowered to engage in their individual communities. SILC Workshops Starting Spring 2022, SILC is excited to offer presentations by request to student organizations looking to learn more about services available to them through SILC and KU. Select below to schedule yours today. We hope you find information you’re excited to learn more about! Request a Workshop Find Your Community. Get Involved. Make an Impact. Get Involved Learn more about finding your flock and building community through student organizations. How to Get Involved Student Org Support Take a look at our online resources for student organizations and RSVP to our upcoming trainings. Student Organization Resources Leadership Development Develop your own personal philosophy of leadership! Check out our programs. Leadership Opportunities Non-Traditional Students Check out our resource guide and learn more about our non-traditional student scholarships. Non-Traditional Student Resources Student Organizations by the Numbers 500+ Registered Student Organizations 8,000+ Hours of Logged Community Service Follow Us On Social Media! FacebookInstagramTwitter Upcoming Student Involvement and Leadership Center Events Kansas Union, Room 400 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 silcfront@ku.edu 785-864-4861 facebook instagram twitter Contact Us Rock Chalk Central Download Corq -The Official App of Rock Chalk Central Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.