Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Event Information Webcast Participants Archives More Archives 2020 The Silfen Forum 2019 The Silfen Forum 2018 The Silfen Forum 2017 The Silfen Forum 2015 The Silfen Forum 2014 The Silfen Forum 2013 The Silfen Forum 2012 The Silfen Forum 2010 The Silfen Forum 2009 The Silfen Forum About Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Penn Home Search Search Close The David and Lyn Silfen University Forum Irvine Auditorium | Monday, April 18, 2022 | 2:00 p.m. Webcast We welcome you back to the David and Lyn Silfen University Forum website. We’re in our fourteenth year. We look forward to having you join us for this year's event, providing great speakers and conversation you’ve come to expect from Penn. Ben Franklin: A Voice From the Past That Speaks to Our Day Expand All Collapse All A conversation and clips from the film "Benjamin Franklin," by Ken Burns - Read full description Printer’s apprentice in a provincial Puritan outpost to the toast of elite Parisian society. Penniless vagabond to wealthy entrepreneur. Reliable royalist to redoubtable revolutionary. Enslaver of human beings to preeminent abolitionist. Benjamin Franklin was all these things – and more. Wellspring of our national wit and humor, celebrity scientist, homespun sophisticate and a self-proclaimed “mortal enemy to arbitrary government and unlimited power,” Franklin’s story is quintessentially America’s story. Its triumphs and achievements, foibles and failures, visionary principles and parochial shortcomings say as much about the challenges American society faces in the 21st century as it does of its colonial past. Join Penn Interim President Wendell Pritchett, in conversation with filmmaker and 16-time Emmy Award winner Ken Burns, for a free-ranging discussion of America’s most truly modern Revolutionary hero and founder of the University of Pennsylvania, with a sneak peek at clips from the new film, Benjamin Franklin. Franklin once advised “Let all men know thee, but no man know thee thoroughly” and to this day he remains an intriguing and multi-layered puzzle. Burns, who has just completed a two-part, four-hour documentary, Benjamin Franklin, will bring his unique and often surprising insights into Franklin’s enduring legacy and contemporary significance with highlights from the film that is slated to premiere on PBS on April 4-5. The stakes in Ben Franklin’s day were enormous: pandemic disease versus public health; private gain versus public good; democracy versus authoritarianism. The decisions we make today carry no less risk and an equal opportunity for redemption. For Franklin’s genius, no less relevant today than in 1789, was to help birth “a republic... if you can keep it.” 2022 Participants John L. Jackson, Jr. Walter H. Annenberg Dean of the Annenberg School for Communication, Richard Perry University Professor Go to biography Wendell Pritchett Interim President, James S. Riepe Presidential Professor of Law and Education Go to biography Ken Burns American Filmmaker, Recipient of 16 Emmy Awards and 2 Academy Award Nominations, 2022 Penn Commencement Speaker and Honorary Doctor of Arts Go to biography Event Information For Details and Registration Silfen Forum Participants Go to biographies The Silfen Forum Archives Visit previous events About The Silfen Forum About the founders Registration Webcast Event Information Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000