Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Experience SIPA Centers & Institutes You are here Home Experience SIPA Displaying 1 - 6 of 6 search results. Center for Development Economics and Policy (CDEP) One fifth of humanity lives on less than $1.25 per day, and two-fifths on less than $2 per day, with the frequent hunger, chronic health problems, and everyday indignities that such poverty entails. How can the living standards of the poor be raised? The Center for Development Economics and Policy (CDEP) supports microeconomic research to investigate the sources of poverty and to inform practical interventions to address them. Center for Environmental Economics and Policy (CEEP) The Center for Environmental Economics and Policy undertakes original research into the causes of environmental change, the consequences of this change for humanity, and the policies that can prevent and—where possible—reverse harmful environmental change to ensure sustainable development. CEEP’s goal is to share this knowledge with policymakers, fellow researchers, students, and concerned citizens worldwide. A defining feature of the Center's research is the integration of analytic approaches from economics with the natural sciences and engineering. Center on Global Economic Governance (CGEG) Founded by Jan Svejnar in 2012, the Center on Global Economic Governance is a premier Center for producing a new wave of policy-oriented research on global economic governance, stressing excellence and recognition. In doing so, CGEG brings into sharp focus key issues, sets the highest academic standards in research, and brings together key players from the academic, policy and business world. This approach combines internal and external talent. In particular, CGEG involves and provides a stimulating environment for SIPA and Columbia faculty and students, and brings in top external academics, policy makers, and business leaders to address issues facing the... Center on Global Energy Policy (CGEP) We are at a transformational moment in energy history: new technologies are unlocking new resources and devising new ways to get energy as climate change impacts are being felt with more frequency and severity. The Center on Global Energy Policy provides independent, balanced, data-driven analysis to help policymakers navigate the complex world of energy. We approach energy as an economic, security, geopolitical, and climate concern. And we draw on the resources of a world-class institution, faculty with real-world experience, and a location in the world’s finance and media capital. Deepak and Neera Raj Center on Indian Economic Policies (CIEP) The mission of Deepak and Neera Raj Center on Indian Economic Policies is to promote economic prosperity in India, by improving understanding of the Indian economy through research undertaken by leading scholars, by disseminating this knowledge to practitioners, policymakers, students and scholars worldwide and by sustaining ongoing dialogues on major policy issues facing India. The Center’s research will also include comparative analysis of the experience of India and the United States in policy-relevant areas such as climate change and federalism, so as to provide scholarly support for multilateral and bilateral (US-India) initiatives. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies (SIWPS) Founded in 1951 under the sponsorship of Dwight D. Eisenhower, during his tenure as president of Columbia University, the Institute of War and Peace Studies (SIWPS) was renamed the Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies (SIWPS) in March 2003. Created to promote understanding of the "disastrous consequences of war upon man's spiritual, intellectual, and material progress," the institute has become one of the leading research centers on international relations in the United States. Its researchers have probed the political, military, historical, legal, economic, moral, psychological, and philosophical dimensions of international relations; and contributed to the general discourse by authoring... Search Centers & Institutes Type Keyword Type SIPA Center Affiliated Center Share This Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216