Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Master of International Affairs Master of Public Administration MPA in Economic Policy Management MPA in Environmental Science and Policy Executive MPA MPA in Development Practice PhD in Sustainable Development MPA in Global Leadership Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Academics Degree Programs Master of Public Administration The Master of Public Administration (MPA), which includes selected STEM-designated pathways, emphasizes a comparative approach to domestic policy and prepare students to address major national policy issues and manage organizations in the US and other countries around the world. You are here Home Academics Degree Programs Tamar Mitts: “How to solve policy issues is more important than ever” Video of Tamar Mitts: “How to solve policy issues is more important than ever” Objective Students develop the qualitative and quantitative analytical skills, substantive knowledge of a policy concentration and professional skills to address real world challenges in policy and management. Who It's For The MPA degree program is best suited for young professionals holding a bachelor’s degree and 3-5 years of relevant work or substantive internship experience. Career Paths MPA graduates work in the most prestigious agencies and firms in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors, as well as their own start-ups and social enterprises. Curriculum The MPA core curriculum combines a globally oriented and comparative approach to national policy-making with rigorous courses in economics, quantitative analysis and management. Students choose from a broad range of concentrations (majors): International Security Policy, International Finance and Economic Policy, Economic and Political Development, Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy, and Urban and Social Policy. Graduates possess advanced analytical abilities and career-oriented professional knowledge and skills, acquired through a curriculum that integrates Columbia University’s unsurpassed academic rigor with extensive experiential learning, including the most diverse capstone workshop program in the field. Learn more about the MPA course structure Tuition & Fees Learn more about our Tuition & Fees FAQs Can I be exempted from some of the requirements based on past academic or professional experience? Most likely, no. Course exemptions are only granted to students who obtain advanced standing based on previous academic work or pass a proficiency test. What are the concentration options within this program? Economic and Political Development Energy and Environment Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy International Finance and Economic Policy International and Security Policy Urban and Social Policy Can I switch my program, concentration, or specialization after I’m admitted? Yes Can I study part-time or in the evenings? All students are required to register full-time as many required courses are only offered during the day. Can I take classes at other schools at Columbia University? Yes. Many of our students take courses at other Columbia Schools. For more information, please consult the SIPA Bulletin. Dual-Degree Programs with other columbia schools MPA and Juris Doctor (JD) MPA and Master of Public Health (MPH) MPA and Master in Quantitative Methods in the Social Sciences (MA) MPA and Master of Science in Social Work (MSSW) Learn more about the MPA Dual Degree programs Dual-Degree Programs with international partners Berlin: the Hertie School - Master of Public Policy or Master of International Affairs London: London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) - Master of Public Administration Paris: School of International Affairs at Sciences Po - Master of International Affairs and School of Public Affairs at Sciences Po - Master of Public Administration São Paulo: Fundação Getulio Vargas Escola de Administração de Empresas de São Paulo (FGV-EAESP) Singapore: the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy (LKYSPP) at the National University of Singapore - Master of Public Policy Tokyo: University of Tokyo Graduate School of Public Policy (GraSPP) - Master of Public Policy Application Checklist More information about the application deadlines and checklist can be found on How to Apply to SIPA. Detailed instructions on the application requirements may be found once you start an account in the online Application Portal or by browsing the Admissions Blog. Learn more about what SIPA looks for Employment Statistics Employment By Sector Master of Public Administration.png Employment by Sector: Public Sector, 38.5%; Private Sector, 44.9%; Nonprofit Sector, 14.7%; Pursuing Further Study: 1.9% Employment icon-employed.png 93.4% Employed / Pursuing Further Study icon-seeking-emploment.png 6.6% Seeking Employment icon-not-seeking.png 0.0% Not Seeking Employment Employment information as reported by the graduates six months after graduation. In 2021, 250 students graduated from the MPA program, 167 reported. View more information Program length 21 months Degree awarded MPA Application Deadlines Spring Term 2022 Final Application: October 15, 2021 Fall Term 2022 Early Action: November 1, 2021 Fellowship Consideration: December 20, 2021 Final Application: February 5, 2022 Apply Now Visit SIPA Register for Information Session Request More Information Contact Us Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 212-854-6216 212-854-3010 [email protected] [email protected] Quick Links Program Faculty Compare Programs Capstone Workshops MIA/MPA Concentrations & Specializations Concentrations Test: SIPA Student International Security Policy Test: Renewable Energy Energy and Environment Test: International Finance International Finance and Economic Policy EPD Retreat.jpg Economic and Political Development HRHP-Pillay.jpg Human Rights & Humanitarian Policy Test: Columbia Statue Urban and Social Policy Specializations iStock-1165049206-DAQA.jpg Data Analytics and Quantitative Analysis TI-Niger-1.jpg Regional Test: SIPA Student 2 Management Test: International Finance Technology, Media, and Communications Test: Alumni Gender and Public Policy Test: Human Rights Protest International Organization & UN Studies Test: Protestors International Conflict Resolution News May 16, 2022 STEM Designation Will Now Apply to Selected EPD Degrees The STEM designation recognizes science-, engineering-, and math-intensive programs, and qualifies graduates with F-1 student visas to apply for additional work opportunities. April 7, 2022 Jack Lew: “I’ve Always Been an Optimist” SIPA visiting professor brings decades of public service experience to the classroom. All Program News Share This Spotlight Student MPA - David Arnold Video of Student MPA - David Arnold Student Perspective SIPA allows you to cross-fertilize ideas in a way that other universities don't. David Arnold MPA 17 Full Profile Student EPD Video of Student EPD Student Perspective SIPA helps you to be a better version of yourself and to make the world a better place. Radha Kulkarni MPA Student MPA - David Arnold Student Student EPD Student SIPA Stories: Habib Enayetullah MPA '91 Video of SIPA Stories: Habib Enayetullah MPA &amp;#039;91 Alumni Spotlight SIPA is intellectually extremely exciting. It changes your life. The diversity of people that you meet here, both students and faculty, is absolutely amazing. Habib Enayetullah MPA 91 Senior Vice President Real Estate and Asset Management with Hilton Worldwide Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216