Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Faculty & Research Faculty Directory You are here Home Faculty & Research At SIPA, a distinguished core faculty of practitioners and scholars join with colleagues from throughout Columbia University, including the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Public Health, the Graduate School of Journalism, Teachers College, the School of Law, and the Graduate School of Business. Their combined strength allows SIPA to offer programs unsurpassed in range and flexibility. It is a case study in institutional synergy. Displaying 1 - 18 of 77 search results. Hisham Aidi.jpg Hisham Aidi Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: migration and transnational movements; African migration into Europe; race and ethnicity in Northwest Africa Hisham Aidi 's research interests include cultural globalization and the... 427019_10150731567537792_1873475613_n-1.jpg Douglas Almond Professor of International and Public Affairs and Economics Focus Areas: Health Economics, Environmental Economics, Labor Economics, Public Policy Douglas Almond 's primary research areas are health and applied microeconomics, with a particular interest in... elazar-barkan.jpg Elazar Barkan Professor of International and Public Affairs; Senior Research Scholar of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: Historical dialogue and conflict resolution Elazar Barkan is Professor of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, Director of SIPA's Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy... Scott Barrett Scott Barrett Lenfest-Earth Institute Professor of Natural Resource Economics Focus areas: International cooperation, global public goods, climate change, ocean governance, infectious diseases Scott Barrett is a leading scholar on transnational and global challenges, ranging... bartczak.jpg Norman Bartczak Lecturer in the Discipline of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: Accounting and financial reporting, both domestic and international, financial statement analysis, corporate finance, security analysis, and the management of financial institutions... Richard Betts.jpg Richard K. Betts Leo A. Shifrin Professor of War and Peace Studies Focus areas: Strategic studies, U.S. national security policy Richard K. Betts is the Leo A. Shifrin Professor of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University. He was Director of National Security... Bhagwati Portrait - FOR USE.JPG Jagdish Bhagwati University Professor Focus areas: International trade Jagdish Bhagwati , a member of the Columbia faculty since 1980, is a university professor, the highest academic title at Columbia. He is also a Senior Fellow in... Biddle Headshot.jpg Stephen Biddle Professor of International and Public Affairs Stephen Biddle is Professor of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, a member of the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies , and Adjunct Senior Fellow for Defense... Sandra Black.jpg Sandra E. Black Professor of Economics and of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: l abor economics, education economics, intergenerational mobility, discrimination Sandra E. Black is Professor of Economics and International and Public Affairs at Columbia University... jason-bordoff.jpg Jason Bordoff Professor of Professional Practice in International and Public Affairs Focus areas: The intersection of economics, energy, environment, and national security Jason Bordoff is Co-Founding Dean of the Columbia Climate School, Founding Director of the Center on Global... Andrea_Bubula.jpg Andrea Bubula Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: Open economy macroeconomics Andrea Bubula teaches the core SIPA course Economic Analysis for International Affairs . His expertise is in applied open-economy macroeconomics and finance... Calomiris Photo 2013 img_1004_01.jpg Charles Calomiris Henry Kaufman Professor of Financial Institutions in the Faculty of Business Focus areas: Banking, corporate finance, financial history, monetary economics Charles W. Calomiris is Henry Kaufman Professor of Financial Institutions at Columbia Business School, Director of the... guillermo-calvo1.jpg Guillermo Calvo Professor of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: Macroeconomics of emerging market and transition economies, capital flows and balance-of-payments crises in emerging market economies Guillermo Calvo is a professor at the School of... Tom_Christensen_Headshot_Spring2019sml.png Thomas Christensen Interim Dean; James T. Shotwell Professor of International Relations Thomas J. Christensen is the Interim Dean, James T. Shotwell Professor of International Relations and Director of the China and the World Program at Columbia University. He arrived in 2018 from... claridapixsolo.jpg Richard Clarida C. Lowell Harriss Professor of Economics and Professor of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: Estimating ex-ante risk premia in spot exchange rates with information from inflation indexed bond yields, international financial adjustment, global credit cycle, theory and empirics of... coatsworth.jpg John Coatsworth John Mitchell Mason Professor of the University; Provost Emeritus Focus areas: Comparative economic, social, and international history with an emphasis on Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean John H. Coatsworth is a leading scholar of Latin American economic... steve cohen.jpg Steven Cohen Professor in the Practice of Public Affairs, SIPA; Director, Research Program on Sustainability Policy and Management, The Earth Institute; Director, MPA in Environmental Science and Policy Focus areas: Public management innovation, public ethics, sustainability management, politics, environmental management Dr. Steven Cohen is the Senior Vice Dean of Columbia’s School of Professional... Cojoc_Doru.jpg Doru C. Cojoc Lecturer in the Discipline of International and Public Affairs Focus areas: Microeconomics, experimental economics, grade inflation and leadership Doru Cojoc is an economist interested in microeconomics and experimental economics. He has studied how giving to... Pages 1 2 3 4 Next Last Search Faculty Type Degree Program Concentration Specialization Region Name Type Full-Time Part-Time Research Affiliated Degree Program Master of International Affairs Master of Public Administration MPA in Economic Policy Management MPA in Environmental Science and Policy MPA in Global Leadership Executive MPA MPA in Development Practice PhD in Sustainable Development Concentration International Security Policy Energy and Environment International Finance and Economic Policy Economic and Political Development Human Rights & Humanitarian Policy Urban and Social Policy Specialization Data Analytics and Quantitative Analysis Regional Management Technology, Media, and Communications Gender and Public Policy International Organization & UN Studies International Conflict Resolution Region Africa East Asia East Central Europe Europe Latin America Middle East Russia Southern Asia United States Share This Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216