Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Master of International Affairs Master of Public Administration MPA in Economic Policy Management MPA in Environmental Science and Policy Executive MPA MPA in Development Practice PhD in Sustainable Development MPA in Global Leadership Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Academics Degree Programs Master of International Affairs The Master of International Affairs (MIA), which includes selected STEM-designated pathways, is underpinned by SIPA’s unrivaled expertise on issues that transcend national boundaries and prepares students to address major international issues as experts and leaders in governments and organizations around the world. You are here Home Academics Degree Programs SIPA's Master of International Affairs (MIA) Degree Video of SIPA&amp;#039;s Master of International Affairs (MIA) Degree Student Profile: Saiful Salihudin MIA ’21 Video of Student Profile: Saiful Salihudin MIA ’21 Saiful Salihudin MIA ’21 Majda Radovanović MIA ’20 Video of Majda Radovanović MIA ’20 Majda Radovanović MIA ’20 From Competitor to Judge—CJ Dixon's Cyber 9/12 Journey Video of From Competitor to Judge—CJ Dixon&amp;#039;s Cyber 9/12 Journey CJ Dixon MIA ’19 Objective MIA students acquire the substantive knowledge, practical skills and real-world experience to address the big issues of international affairs. The curriculum integrates Columbia University’s unsurpassed academic choices with extensive experiential learning, including capstone workshop projects with organizations around the world. Students pursue a customizable core curriculum, including a wide range of courses on international politics and political economy. Students also choose from a broad range of majors: International Security Policy, International Finance and Economic Policy, Economic and Political Development, Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy, Energy and Environment, and Urban and Social Policy. Graduates join a dynamic network of MIA alumni in leading organizations in the public, private and nonprofit sectors around the world. Who It's For The MIA degree program is best suited for young professionals holding a bachelor’s degree and 3-5 years of relevant work or substantive internship experience who have a passion for international affairs and a commitment to make the world a better place. Career Paths MIA graduates work around the world in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors. Recent employers include the United Nations, U.S. Departments of State and Defense, foreign ministries abroad, Deutsche Bank, McKinsey & Company, the International Rescue Committee, and many others. Curriculum The MIA offers a customizable core curriculum, including a wide range of courses in international politics and political economy. Students choose from a broad range of concentrations (majors): International Security Policy, International Finance and Economic Policy, Economic and Political Development, Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy, Energy and Environment, and Urban and Social Policy. Students prepare to work in a global environment by demonstrating proficiency in a modern language other than English. The MIA also offers special international immersion courses and fieldwork opportunities. Learn more about the MIA course structure Tuition & Fees Learn more about our Tuition & Fees FAQs Can I be exempted from some of the requirements based on past academic or professional experience? Course exemptions are only granted to students who obtain advanced standing based on previous graduate level academic work or pass a proficiency test. What are the concentration options within this program? Economic and Political Development Energy and Environment Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy International Finance and Economic Policy International and Security Policy Urban and Social Policy Can I switch my program, concentration, or specialization after I’m admitted? Yes. Can I study part-time or in the evenings? All students are required to register full-time as many required courses are only offered during the day. Can I take classes at other schools at Columbia University? Yes. Many of our students take courses at other Columbia Schools. For more information, please consult the SIPA Bulletin. Dual-Degree Programs with other columbia schools MIA and Master of Science in Journalism (MS) MIA and Master of Science in Urban Planning (MS) MIA and Master of Business Administration (MBA) MIA and Juris Doctor (JD) MIA and Master of Public Health (MPH) MIA and Master in Quantitative Methods in the Social Sciences (MA) MIA and Master of Science in Social Work (MSSW) Learn more about the MIA Dual Degree Programs Dual-Degree Programs with international partners Berlin: the Hertie School - Master of Public Policy or Master of International Affairs London: London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) - Master of Public Administration Paris: School of International Affairs at Sciences Po - Master of International Affairs and School of Public Affairs at Sciences Po - Master of Public Administration São Paulo: Fundação Getulio Vargas Escola de Administração de Empresas de São Paulo (FGV-EAESP) Singapore: the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy (LKYSPP) at the National University of Singapore - Master of Public Policy Tokyo: University of Tokyo Graduate School of Public Policy (GraSPP) - Master of Public Policy Application Checklist More information about the application deadlines and checklist can be found on How to Apply to SIPA. Detailed instructions on the application requirements may be found once you start an account in the online Application Portal or by browsing the Admissions Blog. Learn more about what SIPA looks for Employment Statistics Employment By Sector Employment by Sector 2021 – Website(1).png Employment by Sector: Public Sector, 38.6%; Private Sector, 50%; Nonprofit Sector, 10.5%; Pursuing Further Study: 0.9% Employment icon-employed.png 91.2% Employed / Pursuing Further Study icon-seeking-emploment.png 8.0% Seeking Employment icon-not-seeking.png 0.8% Not Seeking Employment Employment information as reported by the graduates six months after graduation. In 2021, 163 students graduated from the MIA program, 125 reported. View more information Program length 21 months Degree awarded MIA Application Deadlines Spring Term 2022 Final Application: October 15, 2021 Fall Term 2022 Early Action: November 1, 2021 Fellowship Consideration: December 20, 2021 Final Application: February 5, 2022 Apply Now Visit SIPA Register for Information Session Request More Information Contact Us Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 212-854-6216 212-854-3010 [email protected] [email protected] Quick Links Program Faculty Compare Programs Capstone Workshops MIA/MPA Concentrations & Specializations Concentrations Test: SIPA Student International Security Policy Test: Renewable Energy Energy and Environment Test: International Finance International Finance and Economic Policy EPD Retreat.jpg Economic and Political Development HRHP-Pillay.jpg Human Rights & Humanitarian Policy Test: Columbia Statue Urban and Social Policy Specializations iStock-1165049206-DAQA.jpg Data Analytics and Quantitative Analysis TI-Niger-1.jpg Regional Test: SIPA Student 2 Management Test: International Finance Technology, Media, and Communications Test: Alumni Gender and Public Policy Test: Human Rights Protest International Organization & UN Studies Test: Protestors International Conflict Resolution News May 16, 2022 STEM Designation Will Now Apply to Selected EPD Degrees The STEM designation recognizes science-, engineering-, and math-intensive programs, and qualifies graduates with F-1 student visas to apply for additional work opportunities. April 7, 2022 Jack Lew: “I’ve Always Been an Optimist” SIPA visiting professor brings decades of public service experience to the classroom. All Program News Share This Spotlight Alum MIA - Joan Spero Video of Alum MIA - Joan Spero Alumni Spotlight SIPA gave me the tools to operate in many different professional backgrounds. Joan Spero MIA 68 Senior Research Scholar Eric Garcetti Video of Eric Garcetti Alumni Spotlight I can bring that International Affairs knowledge that I learned at SIPA and really apply it in a global setting to my city. Eric Garcetti MIA 95 Mayor City of Los Angeles Full Profile Alumni Spotlight I applied to SIPA because it has the best program to understand urban challenges while acquiring the management skills crucial to working in this field. Maria Soledad Guilera MIA 12 Managing Director Center for Evidence Based Policy en Universidad Torcuato Di Tella Full Profile Ella Watson-Stryker Video of Ella Watson-Stryker Alumni Spotlight You can work really hard and sometimes it’s not enough, but we have to keep trying because if we’re not trying, then no one else will. Ella Watson-Stryker MIA 09 Humanitarian Representative Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Full Profile Alum MIA - Joan Spero Alumni Eric Garcetti Alumni Alumni Ella Watson-Stryker Alumni Alum EMPA - Howard Buffett EMPA Video of Alum EMPA - Howard Buffett EMPA Alumni Spotlight All of these things came together with the conceptual framework that I was provided with while attending SIPA. Howard Buffett EMPA EMPA 08 Lecturer in International Public Affairs Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216