Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Information Systems myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Enroll & Pay Select to follow link Access & Training Access & Training Form Courses Enroll & Pay How-To's Select to follow link Enroll & Pay How-To's Students Enroll & Pay How To's Faculty Enroll & Pay How-To's Staff Advising Tool Select to follow link Advising Tool How To's Select to follow link Advising Tool How-To's - Students Advising Tool How-To's - Faculty & Staff Advising Tool Access Advising Tool FAQs Advising Degree Progress People Resources More Services Additional Information Contact Us Advising Tool Login Enroll & Pay Login KUMC Login myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Information Systems Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Advising Tool What is the Advising Tool? The KU Online Advising Tool launched its first phase on December 30, 2007. The first launch included: Access to student record information Extensive course/class search capabilities Advisor notes to track interactions between advisors and students Secure messaging to allow advisors to contact students with important academic notifications Additional features that went live in 2012 are: Degree Progress Report (replacing the ARTS form) available to both advisors and students Graduation functionality (replacing Graduation on ARTS functionality) As with many online services, additional functionality and enhancements will be added to the Online Advising tool frequently and rapidly. How do I get access? If you are a student, you will automatically have access to your own information under the Advising tab of the myKU portal. If you are staff or faculty with advising responsibilities, you can request access to a broader set of information and functionality. Pending approval of this request, you will see additional options on the Advising tab. Where can I get help? In addition to documentation provided on this website, you can contact the Information Technology Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080. Depending on your question, they can connect you to the right resource. Advising Tool Support How To's Access FAQs KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045-7576 Bus Route: 43 enrollandpay@ku.edu 785-864-5221 facebook instagram twitter youtube Enroll & Pay Schedule of Classes MyKU Portal (Advising Tool/DPR) MYKUMC Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.