Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Stanford Introductory Studies Search this site Submit Search Menu Home SLE About SLE Prospective Students Key Facts about SLE Student Perspectives Meet the SLE Instructors Current Syllabus Syllabus Archive SLE in the News ITALIC ITALIC Faculty ITALIC Student Artwork ITALIC in the News ESF About the Education as Self-Fashioning Program ESF Courses & Instructors New ESF Courses ESF Enrollment ESF Lecture Series 2021-22 ESF Plenary Lectures 2020-21 ESF Plenary Lectures 2019-20 ESF Plenary Lectures 2017-18 ESF Plenary Lectures 2016-17 ESF Plenary Lectures 2015-16 ESF Plenary Lectures 2014-15 ESF Guest Lectures 2013-14 ESF Guest Lectures 2012-2013 ESF Guest Lectures Teach with SIS Academic Technology Tech Documentation SIS Equipment Loan Pool Education as Self-Fashioning (ESF) Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation About the Education as Self-Fashioning Program ESF Courses & Instructors ESF Enrollment ESF Lecture Series Main content start About Education as Self-Fashioning Education as Self-Fashioning is a unique opportunity offered only in the autumn quarter, since its aim is to introduce entering students to a liberal education. The courses provide you with an opportunity to work closely with a faculty member in a seminar-style setting. The writing sections give you a solid foundation in a rhetorical approach to writing and speaking along with the critical research tools necessary for success in all your academic work. In Education as Self-Fashioning, we consider writings about education by intellectuals working in various fields, with the aim of articulating different ways that education can be used to structure one’s thinking, one’s self, and ultimately one’s life as a whole. You will grapple with this issue in dialogue with fellow students and faculty from across a wide range of disciplines — from the humanities and social sciences through the natural sciences. Requirements fulfilled: All ESF courses fulfill one quarter of the first-year COLLEGE requirement, the PWR 1 requirement, and at least one Ways requirement. Stanford Stanford Introductory Studies Web Login Address Stanford University Introductory Studies Sweet Hall, 2nd Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Stanford Campus Map Stanford Undergrad Instagram Stanford Undergrad Twitter Connect with SIS Arts Intensive COLLEGE ESF Introductory Seminars ITALIC SLE Sophomore College Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top