Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Content Blocks Add a table Add a table You can add a table to display information in rows and columns. Each row will alternate colors with white and grey background. Select Add Table when entering content. Check Sorting for table to sort on columns NOTE: Sorting enables every column to become sortable. You cannot select specific columns for sorting. [Optional] Use the first row of cells to create table headers for the columns. NOTES: Creating table headers greatly enhances accessibility. Using the first row to create column headers is highly recommended. Table headers must be used (i.e. the first row must be entered) if you have selected Table Sorting. Format cells You can format the content in the cells using the WYSIWYG controls, just like when formatting text. NOTE: Use SHIFT + RETURN to create a hard line break if needed. Re-order rows if needed Rows can be moved up or down on the table: Roll over the row to be shifted and use the arrows on the left to shift the row up or down. Expand Change Number of Rows/Columns to alter the amount of table rows or columns. Adding or deleting rows will effect the bottom-most cells. Adding or deleting columns will effect the right-most cells You must click Rebuild Table for the changes to take effect NOTE: You table data will be deleted if you subtract rows or columns which contain information Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close