Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Content Blocks Timeline Timeline Columbia Sites can display interactive timelines on Landing Pages. Optionally, up to three filters can be created to narrow events on the timeline. See an example of the timeline functionality NOTE: Start here if filters are needed for your timeline Start here if filters are NOT needed for your timeline If using filters, the labels and values must first be created before entering events into the timeline Set the filter labels in Site Settings > Labels & Categorization Go to Taxonomy to add the filter values set for each label created above: Click List Terms for the filter label to add the values Repeat this step for each filter label created. Select Add Timeline from the content menu NOTE: You cannot select Timeline within a page section. Optional, add a Heading for the timeline The Heading is always visible as the user scrolls through the timeline. Add an Introductory Slide for the Timeline If wanted, add a first slide that introduces the timeline. If not, skip to the next step. Expand the Text and Media sections to add in content: Text section allows for a Headline and Text to appear on the slide Media section allows for an image or video embed to appear on the slide Enter in text as needed. Enter in media - images or video - URLs as needed. IMPORTANT: Make sure to add the URL for the image or video. There is no way to link to an uploaded image file here. Enter in the caption and/or credit for the media URL just entered. Enter a timeline event Enter the Date for the timeline event. These fields create both the timeline slide and the date on the bottom axis to access the slide. Enter text and/or media See above for instructions Within the media section, enter a Thumbnail for the event The Thumbnail displays on the bottom axis of the timeline. Add a background image if needed This image will span the entire slide. Anything added in the text and media tabs appears on top of this background image. If filters were created, add them in for each timeline event Expand the Category field to enter in filter values Click Add Timeline Event for additional timeline slides Use this button for each separate slide in the timeline. Repeat the process above. If necessary, add Eras Eras refer to categories of time within the timeline. E.g., if your timeline details a person's life eras could be: Childhood Teenage Years Adult Later Years Eras appear on the bottom axis under the years listed. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close