Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Content Moderation Content Moderation Content Moderation Columbia Sites offers a content moderation for additional cost. Content moderation adds an additional role: Content creator. Content moderation allows Content creators to only create content (they cannot publish anything) and Content managers to review this content and then publish as needed. When content moderation is implemented, the templates available to Content creators can be specified for the implementation. The following is instructions for using content moderation once its been implemented on Columbia Sites. What is a Content Creator? Content Creators are users who are allowed to log into the site and create content. They are not able to publish any content to the site. Publishing must be done by the Content Manager. Prior to Columbia Sites implementing the module, it is decided which templates Content Creators can use to create the content. They can have specific templates available or the full suite if templates. Once this module is implemented, you need to assign this role to users who will be Content Creators. Assigning the role Content Creator If the UNI has not yet been entered Go to Shortcuts > People and click +Add Site Users Add in the relevant UNIs and select Content creator role Click Submit to save the settings Setting email notifications for Content Managers An email notification is sent to Content managers when a page is ready for review. In order to receive this email, Content managers must select themselves to receive notifications. NOTE: not all Content managers need to receive the email notifications Go to Shortcuts > People From here: Select the UNIs who should receive email notifications Select in the Action dropdown: Add the Receive Workflow notifications role to the selected user(s) Click the Apply to selected items button (212) 853-0761 [email protected] Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close