Skip to content Center for Quantitative Biology Bringing Biology and Bioinformatics Together Main Menu CITE US! Cores Research Administration and Mentoring Core Single Cell Genomics Core SCG Services Single Cell Genomics Core Personnel Data Analytics Core DAC Services DAC Data Storage Policy DAC Personnel Projects Current Projects Impact of Hormones on Macrophages Statistical Approaches to Somatic Mutations Gene Set Testing for Single-Cell Data Mathematical and In-Silico Models Evolution of Antibiotic-Resistance Mechanisms Past Projects Tissue Network Knowledge Transfer Supplements Pilot Projects Investigators Michael L. Whitfield, PhD Jay C. Dunlap, PhD James O’Malley, PhD Fred W. Kolling, PhD H. Robert Frost, PhD Feng Fu, PhD Daniel Schultz, PhD Siming Zhao, PhD Past Investigators J. Matt Mahoney, PhD Publications Workshops Current Workshops Previous Workshops News and Events News Events Calendar Funding Pilot Project Program Event support $ Center for Quantitative Biology Where Big Data and Basic Science Meet Single Cell Genomics Core Data Analytics Core High-throughput genomic, proteomic, metabolomic, and immune-profiling technologies provide a wealth of data to interrogate basic biological processes, changes in cellular/organismal populations, and the molecular basis of disease at levels ranging from the whole organism to single cells. The rapid advancement of high-throughput technologies for assessing biological systems has generated a significant demand at Dartmouth for platforms that support ‘-omics’ in single cells, as well as interdisciplinary approaches to computational biology. The goal of this COBRE program is to establish a Center for Quantitative Biology (CQB), to support and enhance NIH-funded quantitative biological research at Dartmouth and to facilitate its integration with experimental biology. The CQB will draw upon faculty in the Arts & Sciences, Thayer School of Engineering, and the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. The Center will recruit and provide a cohesive community for diverse scientists with homes in departments spanning Geisel, Arts & Sciences and the Thayer School, including Biomedical Data Science, Molecular & Systems Biology, Biochemistry & Cell Biology, Epidemiology, Microbiology & Immunology, Biological Sciences, Computer Science and Mathematics. Through its emphasis on next-generation data, the CQB will bring together and enhance initiatives in computational biology, bioinformatics, and experimental genomics across Dartmouth. Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Daniela by Christopher Crouch.