Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features Create pre-filtered listings Create pre-filtered listings Landing Pages can display a subset of categories set in a listing. For instance, if profile categories have been set to list both "Professors" and "Associate Professors" as filters, a Landing Page can be set to only display "Professors." To do this, you need to know the TermID. Term IDs are used to display subsets of larger listings for: Events Services Profile Directory News NOTE: Term IDs are only available for the Views Display on Landing Pages. Create a new Landing Page See Create a Landing Page Add a Views Display See Add a Views Display Select the Views Field that accepts TermIDs for filtering lists Depending on which Columbia Sites model you have, select the type of listing you are interested to filter. NOTE: To create a subset of the listing, the value in the dropdown must indicate you can enter a TermID. Enter the TermID(s) into the Arguments Field. See below. Finding TermIDs Decide what filtered listing you are interested in creating Look at your complete view of Profiles, Events, Services, Directory or News. Decide which subgroup(s) you want to pull out for your listing. Locate the category for the filtered list Go to the Taxonomy screen in the administrative panel. Find the category which contains the term for which you are interested to create a filtered list. Click "List Terms" for the category which contains the term of interest. Find the TermID listed for the term of interest In this example, the NEWS taxonomy group has been selected. There are 2 terms created here and their individual termIDs are: About Columbia Sites: 134 Technology: 136 Paste the term into the Arguments field. Publish the page. Your Landing Page now is filtered to list the terms specified. Combining TermIDs Multiple TermIDs can be used together to create AND or OR listings: AND listing displays content with the same set of TermIDs defined. E.x. You can display News articles tagged to both "Awards" and "Press". This will display all articles that have both these tags. OR listing displays content with either of TermIDs defined. E.x. You can display News articles tagged to either "Awards" or "Press". This will display all articles that have either one of these tags. Create AND Listing Find all TermIDs of interest Described above. Add them into the Arguments field, separated with a comma For example, if you have two TermIDs - 15 and 16 - enter into the Arguments field 15,16 IMPORTANT: do not have any space between the numbers and the comma Create OR Listing Find all TermIDs of interest Described above. Add them into the Arguments field, separated with a plus sign For example, if you have two TermIDs - 15 and 16 - enter into the Arguments field 15+16 IMPORTANT: do not have any space between the numbers and the plus Example Expand all Collapse all Filtering a Profile Directory listing In the following example, the unfiltered directory view is as follows: NOTE: Depending on which Columbia Sites model, this view may appear different. A page is needed only displaying "Research Technician" profiles. This means the TermID for "Research Technician" is needed: Go to the Taxonomy screen in the administrative panel and click Position (People) ; This is the category which contains the TermID "Research Technician." Copy the TermID for "Research Technician," which is 15 in this case. Paste the TermID (in this case "15") into the Arguments field. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close