UT Austin Center for Community Engagment The Project The University of Texas at Austin's Largest Day of Service About History Event Info Maps Volunteer Registration Team Leads Transportation and Parking Join Us Alumni Press Supporters FAQs Meet Our Team The University’s Largest Day of Service Welcome to the home of The Project! We are the University of Texas at Austin’s largest day of service, and we are proud to help thousands of students, faculty, and staff Read more February 17, 2022, Filed Under: Press Project Still Recruiting Team Leads and Volunteers! Have you signed up yet? Sign up for one (or both!) of our volunteer shifts on GivePulse using this link! February 7, 2022, Filed Under: Press Phillips 66 Continuing Generous Sponsorship of Project 2022 For the second year in a row, Phillips 66 is teaming up with the Project to help bring UT Austin’s largest day of service to life. Thanks to the financial generosity of Phillips 66, the Project and the Community Engagement Collective can continue the legacy of the Project and create… read more February 1, 2022, Filed Under: Press The Project Volunteer Sign Up – Give Pulse Sign up for volunteer shifts through our GivePulse page! December 1, 2021, Filed Under: Press Team lead applications are now open! The Project is now accepting applications for team Leads!!! If you’re interested in leading volunteers on UT’s Largest Day of Service, then fill out the application attached below! Being a team lead is a great way to gain leadership experience, and to connect with other volunteers in the Project! We… read more December 1, 2021, Filed Under: Press The Project 2022 Date is APRIL 9th! The Project 2022 will be happening April 9th, 2022! Check out our Join Us page (Event info → Join Us) for more information. November 22, 2021, Filed Under: Press Stay Tuned for The Project 2022!! Keep your eye out for application dates and updates on this page! Things will become available as more information is revealed. We can’t wait to begin and we hope you join us!!!! September 3, 2019, Filed Under: Uncategorized Recruitment Video! Check out the link to the video below to get a glimpse at what UT’s Largest Day of Service really looks like!!! You can join now be a part of the Project as a committee member, team lead, or volunteer and experience this amazing day yourself! Video August 29, 2019, Filed Under: Uncategorized The Project in Rundberg Recap For the past 4 years, the Project has been dedicated to connecting with and beautifying the community of Rundberg! But this year, we are moving our efforts to the community of St. John’s and we are so excited to get to know the community and its members! As a celebration… read more The Project will take place on April 9, 2022 This year, the Project is partnering with NorthEast High School and neighboring communities on a smaller scale, as the Project makes its return after COVID. RSVP to Join Us! Contact Us The Project The University of Texas at Austin 100 West Dean Keeton Street, A6300 Student Services Building (SSB) 3.200 utprojectvm@gmail.com 512.471.6161 Support The Project UT Home | Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility | Web Privacy | Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 UT WordPress Theme About History Event Info Maps Volunteer Registration Team Leads Transportation and Parking Join Us Alumni Press Supporters FAQs Meet Our Team ×