Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Libraries Home Start Your Research Use the Libraries Help & Support About UW Libraries Blog Menu Libraries Home Start Your Research Use the Libraries Help & Support About Home UW Libraries Blog Student Experience May Update April 29, 2022 May Update UW Libraries This month’s update is packed with events and important news about summer operations. Undergraduates— there’s still time to apply for the UW Libraries Undergraduate Research Award for a chance to win up to $1,000! Existing or potential grad students— don’t miss the very helpful workshop on Finding Funding For Graduate School! Operations Hours: End-of-quarter and summer hours (modified for finals) are posted on the Libraries operations page. June 13th Closure/Catalog and Search System Down: All UW Library locations on all campuses (with the exception of Health Sciences) will be closed to accommodate a system-wide upgrade to the catalog/search software on Monday, June 13th. If you have saved searches or permalinks in your course materials, you will need to take action BEFORE June 13th. Learn more. Westlaw to replace Nexis Uni: UW Libraries is replacing Nexis Uni with Westlaw Campus Research. Access to Nexis Uni will end on June 30, 2022. Learn more about this change and replacement/alternate resources. News and Stories Treasure Trove: economist Robert Haney Scott gifts his private collection to the Foster Library. Read the story from UW Foster School of Business. “It’s a wonderful feeling to be holding a first edition of a book from the 1700s in your hands,” says student Mia Middleton, with Special Collections’ Sandra Kroupa, in her 53rd year with UW. Libraries in the Classroom: From centuries-old French literature to a 1940s copy of Vogue magazine, go inside UW’s Textual Studies Program where students are working with UW Libraries Special Collections to explore how text is shaped by publication processes and technologies, and how it can be reinvented over time. Read the story from UW Arts and Sciences UW Faculty Senate votes to support the UW Libraries’ Principles in Licensing Scholarly Resources – On April 14, the UW Faculty Senate voted to approve a Class C Resolution expressing its support for UW Libraries’ Principles in Licensing Scholarly Resources aimed at addressing inequitable and unsustainable publishing models. Learn more. I HEART LIBRARIES Student Video Contest – 2022 winners announced! Congratulations to first place winner, undergraduate Phuong (Jolie) Tran who gave us a very memorable “dawg’s eye view” of UW Libraries’ resources – check out all the winners. Books, Book Clubs & Book Talks Charlotte Cote, author of A Drum in One Hand, a Sockeye in the Other, from University Press, chatted with KUOW’s Southside about her new book and indigenizing diets. Listen on KUOW’s website. “Time heals”; A drawing submitted by Anna Barrera to the Community Reads online gallery. See the many beautiful and moving creations of art, poetry and more celebrating the theme of “well-being” in conjunction with this year’s text: Undrowned, by Alexis Pauline Gumbs. Community Reads, hosted by UW Bothell and Cascadia College Campus Library, strives to build community through shared experiences and discussions around social justice, equity, and diversity centered on a quarterly theme and text. All are welcome to join in on the discussion/reflections/and contribute through the creative gallery. Participate/learn more. REAL Lit – UW Tacoma Library’s Real Lit[erature]: Reading for Social Justice book club will be reading Jaquira Díaz’s Ordinary Girls. This book club is open to anyone within the UW Community. The club meets virtually, every Thursday from 12:30-1:20. Sign up and/or learn more. The recently published Routledge Companion to Korean Literature is the most extensive collection to date of English-language articles on Korean literature, written by Associate Professor Heekyoung Cho with contributions from Asian L&L faculty member Dr. Ungsan Kim, UW Korean Studies Librarian Hyokyoung Yi, among many others. Learn more. Special Events May 3 – Academic Surveillance and the Big Data Economy: Explore the topics of academic surveillance, data politics, and the economics of academia through a keynote talk and panel featuring CUNY Professor of Law Sarah Lamda, followed by a complimentary online session “‘Like Lesbians Walking the Perimeter’: Experiences of U.S. LGBTQ+ Folks with Online Security, Safety, and Privacy Advice”, brought to you by the UW Libraries Open Scholarship Commons. May 10 – Poetry Storytelling Workshop: a poetry reading and workshop with Jamal Gabobe centered around his new book The Path of Difference. Images and writings of Henrietta Woods, references from McDaniel’s book “Sweet Taste of Liberty: A True Story of Slavery and Restitution.” Image source. May 11 – 2022 Stephanie M. Camp Lecture: A Case of Reparations? A True Story of Slavery and Restitution: Hosted by Dr. W. Caleb McDaniel, the 2022 Stephanie M. Camp Lecture focuses on the life of Henrietta Wood, a formerly enslaved woman who, in the twilight of Reconstruction, won the largest known sum ever awarded by a U.S. court in restitution for slavery. May 23 – Discovering AI@UW: Join the conversation with AI (Artificial Intelligence) experts from across the University of Washington campus! Offered by the eScience Institute, a partner of the UW Libraries Open Scholarship Commons. May 25 – 6th Annual GIS Symposium: The GIS Symposium highlights and celebrates the transformational role of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), remote sensing, and data visualization technologies at the UW and beyond. Submit a lightning talk proposal by 5/20 for a chance to present your research! Workshops May 16th – Citation Management Tools Asynchronous Course brought to you by the Research Commons May 19 – Finding Funding For Graduate School: Join the Graduate Funding Information Service for an overview of funding types, search tools, and search strategies! For health sciences students: Check out events through TRAIL and REDCap training events and curriculum from the Institute of Translational Health Sciences From the Open Scholarship Commons and our partners May 6 – Fast Fingers & Slow Fashion: Crafting Dissertation Research, researchers demonstrate how they incorporate textile craft practices into dissertation research in the fields of Anthropology/Education and English. Offered by the Simpson Center for the Humanities’ UW Textile Studies Graduate Research Cluster. May 12 –Visualization Association, Trust, and the Manifestation of Misinformation Workshop: This online workshop will share knowledge pertaining to the manipulation of visual representation, explain the human interpretation of pictographs, and start a conversation about how to read a picture or visualization. May 20 – Python, Your Personal Research Assistant TEAL Digital Scholarship for East Asian Studies May 23– Navigating Digital Scholarship Tools with the Tateuchi East Asia Library: considering the needs of researchers in fields with non-Latin scripts, such as East Asia studies, learn how you can present a capstone or a thesis in a more engaging way through digital scholarship. May 26- Japanese Arts & Culture as Digital Objects: Access, Use, and Preservation: explore how institutions in Japan are using digital collections to increase access to artistic and cultural content and new approaches for combining use with preservation. Monthly Pressbooks Workshops: Pressbooks’ suite of products– offered through #YourUWLibrary– makes it easy to create, adapt, and share educational material. Learn how to create open textbooks, course materials and more. Getting Started with Pressbooks – Wed. May 4th, 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. Advanced Pressbooks Publishing Webinar – Wed. May 18th, 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. Build Your Accessibility Skills! May 10 – Writing Alternative Text for Data Visualizations Workshop: Adding alternative text is one of the easiest ways that you can make your visualizations accessible! Learn more. May 17 – Accessibility and Colors for Data Visualizations Workshop: Color selection plays a large part in the overall accessibility of data visualizations! Learn more in this hands-on workshop with UW Libraries. May 24 – Data Visualizations Accessibility Audits Workshop: Leave this workshop with a step-by-step guide that affirms the accessibility of your data visualizations. UW Learning Technologies classes at Odegaard Undergraduate Library: a variety of Excel workshops Introduction to Photoshop Drop-In Help Digital Scholarship Drop-In Help Hours (via Zoom) on Thursdays: Through the Libraries Open Scholarship Commons, we offer consultations for research and course-related projects. Examples include support for digital publishing, building digital exhibits, and more! We can help you find the right tools, resources and instruction whether you’re just getting started or are working on an ongoing project. Learn more about the GIS Lab services! GIS Help Drop-In Hours: The GIS Lab, provided by the University Libraries Open Scholarship Commons, assists users with locating geospatial data, integrating data into GIS projects, and basic ArcGIS functionality. Drop by Suzzallo Library on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 10 am – 2 pm for assistance. Open Writing Circles Tuesdays: virtual weekly meetings offering 90 minutes of quiet writing time and community with fellow writers from across campus, every Tuesday! Offered through the Odegaard Writing and Research Center through May 31st. Featured Resources, Collections UW Tacoma Libraries Relaunches Campus Meaningful Reads: Share your voice and help build a UW Tacoma collection that highlights the books, articles, or creative writings that have been meaningful to members of our campus community. Learn more. If you have a question about any of the resources in this guide, ask Harry Murphy, American Ethnic (African American, American Indian, Asian American, Chicano) Studies Librarian The Diversity Collection: Is one of the many resources you’ll find in UW Libraries’ American Ethnic Studies Research Guide. Learn about history, society, and politics from the perspective of communities and individuals who lived through it. In the Diversity Collection, you’ll have access to ethnic, minority, and native presses, grassroots newspapers and magazines, and newsletters focusing on gender and sexuality, from 1970 to the present day. This interdisciplinary full-text source is brought to you by UW Libraries. Exhibits and Displays “Oars Out, Roll Cameras” highlights the upcoming filming of Boys in the Boat in conjunction with the opening weekend of boating season/Windermere Cup May 6-7. On display in Allen North from April 6-May 31! And Then She Said: Voices of Feminists Past and Present was sown from The Dead Feminists series, a collaboration between local artists in the form of a collection of 31 broadsides elevating voices of women throughout history. Learn more. The Pacific Northwest in the ‘70s This quarter’s theme is Workin’ for the Man— a look at the decade’s labor activities and how they shaped how we work today. May 9-August 19, 2022 ### Bio Latest Posts UW Libraries UW Libraries Latest posts by UW Libraries (see all) Latest posts by UW Libraries (see all) UW Libraries’ Negeen Aghassibake selected as 2022 LEADING Fellow - May 25, 2022 Preparing for Finals Week: UW Libraries 10 Tips for Success - May 24, 2022 No Easy Answers: Big Data Vendors, Information Access and Libraries - May 5, 2022 Search for: Subscribe by Email Sign up to receive notifcations of new posts from UW Libraries. Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More Posts UW Libraries’ Negeen Aghassibake selected as 2022 LEADING Fellow May 25, 2022 Preparing for Finals Week: UW Libraries 10 Tips for Success May 24, 2022 Inside and Out: Working with Vendors to Improve Accessibility May 19, 2022 Tags #GAAD #Gretagate #historykeepers #IHeartLibraries #IHeartUWLibraries #OER #OpenAccess #OpenAccessWeek #UWFaculty #UWTFoundingStories accessibility accessible technology access services book clubs collaboration community curbside pickup digital public history digital scholarship East Asia Library East Asia Studies equity ethnomusicology Greta Thunberg conspiracy Health Sciences Libraries and COVID-19 Manifold open access open research oral history race and equity reorganization social justice southeast asia Special Collections students sustainability sustainable scholarship training user centered UW UW archives UW Libraries Research Works UW Research UW Special Collections Archives May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 November 2018 October 2018 Categories Awards (1) Community (47) COVID-19 (14) Enhance Equitable Environments (38) Ethnomusicology (2) Exhibits (12) Friends of the Libraries (5) government (6) Health Sciences (3) Learning Organization (39) Libraries Events (19) Libraries Resources (65) Libraries services (40) Libraries Staff (41) Open Access (24) Preservation (7) Research (6) Research for Public Good (48) Responsive Collections (19) Special Collections (14) Student Experience (48) Uncategorized (87) Update (22) UW Faculty Resources (27) UW Press (4) Your Library 24/7 chat, email, or meet with a librarian - we're here for you. Ask Us! Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS University of Washington University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA © 2018 University of Washington Libraries, Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA Skip to toolbar Log In About WordPress About WordPress WordPress.org Documentation Support Feedback Search