Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Release Notes Columbia Sites 1.2 Release Notes Columbia Sites 1.2 July 11, 2016 New Stuff We took a dose of our own medicine and launched a website. The Administration model is now live. This model includes all the features and free services of the Research model but is optimized for the needs of administrative units. It also contains the same content types except Research Publications and Alumni, and it adds a new content types called Services. Create a compilation of all the services your unit offers and allow users to sort them by categories that you define. A single page, or your entire website, can now be protected and put behind UNI log in. Login permission can be given to students, alumni, faculty, one of each, or all, up to you. Work with the Columbia Sites team to set up access rights. Basic Pages now accept anchor tags so users can jump to specific content. Images can be hyperlinked, not just the text beneath them. You can now customize links in the Utility Navigation. Accordions now have the option of being numbered, to keep things tidy. Bug Zapper The Weirdness is out there. Email us to report a sighting. Tags Release Notes News July 23, 2020 Columbia Sites 1.84 October 15, 2019 Columbia Sites 1.83 April 01, 2019 Columbia Sites 1.82 September 24, 2018 Columbia Sites 1.81 September 07, 2018 Columbia Sites 1.80 Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close