Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Deadlines Deadlines Deadlines are modified events: There are no start dates / times for deadlines, only end dates / times specified You can force a deadline to list at the top From the Add Content menu select Deadline Add deadline summary information (optional) NOTE: The summary entered displays on the deadline listing page. It does not display on the individual deadline detail page. Enter deadline time and date information Open Until Filled If this box is checked then no date displays for the deadline. The listing will go to the top of the deadline list. Deadline End Date and End Time If the date and time is entered and the Open Until Filled is NOT checked, the date appears as part of the listing. If the date and time is set and the Open Until Filled IS checked, the listing appears at the top of the list. If there are multiple deadlines with Open Until Filled checked, they are sorted chronologically using this date and time. Ignore Time If this box is checked, the time is not listed on the deadline. NOTE: this setting only effects the front end rendering of the deadline. Enter all the content for the deadline Enter all the types of content, e.g. accordions, lists, etc... for your deadline. NOTE: All content entered here only displays on the individual deadline detail page, not the deadline listing page. Enter location NOTE: Location entered here is unstructured content meaning it does not generate a map location. Enter a Registration Link for the deadline, if applicable Any URL can be set for Registration, e.g. this can be an eventbright URL. It will render as a Register button. Enter categories for deadline Filtered listings for deadlines based on categories can be created. See Finding TermID. Modifying the Deadline label By default, the Deadline label displays as "DEADLINES" when listing out all the deadlines entered: You can change the Deadline label to one of your choice. Expand all Collapse all To change the DEADLINES label Go to Sites Settings and then Labels and Categorization Scroll down to Deadline Content Label Enter the new label, in this example Susie's Deadline Label Save the configuration That's it! Now the labels will reflect whatever was just entered. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close