Home About Training Research Partners Resources News Archive Contact Us ✕ Under Construction – Changes are Coming Soon The CEW-RC seeks to promote the emotional, educational, and physical well-being of all children and families. We strive to work with diverse and underserved populations, to support individuals who dedicate their lives to helping others, and to ensure that our work is always culturally informed and evidence based. Training SBIRT Motivational Interviewing SBIRT is an easy to learn evidence-based practice that is based on Motivational Interviewing principles. CIFFTA Family Therapy CIFFTA is an evidence based and multi-component treatment that consists of family focused and individually focused interventions. Well-Being Well-Being consists of a positive state of affairs in six domains of life that form the acronym I COPPE: Interpersonal, Community, Occupational, Physical, Psychological, and Economic. STATS-U The Stats-U team provides methodological support to UM researchers and graduate students. Melissa Institute The Melissa Institute is a non-profit organization dedicated to the study and prevention of violence through education, community service, research support and consultation. Practice Improvement Network With funding from the Health Foundation of South Florida, we have created a “Practice Improvement Network” that aims to builds organizational capacity to deliver evidence-based treatments to our community’s underserved populations. Research CIFFTA Prevention and Treatment Research Our program of treatment and research has focused on the development and testing of more engaging, efficacious, and cost-effective interventions for disadvantaged and underserved youth and families. Our innovative adaptive intervention (CIFFTA) that can be tailored to the unique adolescent and family cultural and clinical needs has been accepted into the National Registry of Evidence Based Programs and Practices. I-BAFT Treatment Research With NIH funding our research team developed and tested an innovative treatment to improve services for adolescents reporting severe self-harm, impulsivity, and drug use symptoms. Student Research A number of our Ph.D. and Masters students conduct innovative research as part of the CEW-RC mission. Contact us University of Miami Max Orovitz Suite 300 +1 (305) 284-8852 cewrc@miami.edu sites.education.miami.edu/cewrc Partners The Dunspaugh Dalton Foundation has generously supported the Community and Educational Well-Being Research Center since 2009. NIDA has supported the development and testing of family-based interventions for Latino and Hispanic youth and families including CIFFTA. NIMHD has funded the development and testing of the CIFFTA and the innovative integration of technology (Computer Assisted CIFFTA) into the counseling process. The HFSF has funded a Practice Improvement Network and the implementation and evaluation of two Live Healthy place-based initiatives. The Children's Trust has funded CIFFTA as a family strengthening program and THINK as a summer program for youth. See the rest of our partners © 2020 CEW-RC. All Rights Reserved.