Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Trainings and Workshops Trainings and Workshops Trainings and Workshops Social media trainings are on hold until the fall; email us if you need help before then. drupal icon Columbia Sites Basic Training: All Models *required Duration: 2 hours Columbia Sites is built using the Drupal content management system. This hands-on workshop will teach content editors and site administrators all the skills needed to use Columbia Sites. You will learn how to create basic pages and navigation, modify the site taxonomy, and update the header and footer. search icon Content Strategy, SEO and Information Architecture Duration: 90 minutes Effective websites have a defined strategy for presenting site content. This training covers preparing and planning content, writing for the web, and optimizing content for search engines. legal icon Columbia Sites Accessibility Duration: 60 minutes Creating accessible websites is a legal requirement as well as a best practice. This training teaches administrators how to keep a site accessible when creating and entering content. Target audiences for this training are site administrators and content creators. sitemap icon How to Conduct User Research Duration: 90 minutes Learn about the basis of user experience and the importance of user research, practical techniques on how to solicit feedback and ideas from our users and stakeholders, plan a strategy that's and research-driven and develop goals and tasks for your project that's rooted in data. star-half-full icon Getting the Most Out of Your Site Duration: 90 minutes This workshop will empower you to conduct quick and cheap usability tests throughout the project lifecycle. Learn the benefits of traditional user testing. You will learn how to facilitate sessions, develop test plans, analyze data, and present the findings. share-alt icon Social Media Strategy Duration: 60 minutes This training teaches participants how to: communicate on social media, create social content, build community, and anticipate students' needs using social listening posts. Participants will also be welcomed into the Columbia social media community of practice, which meets monthly and communicates daily. google icon Google Analytics Duration: 60 minutes Google Analytics is a powerful reporting tool that provides detailed demographics on users and how they behave on websites. Site administrators will learn how to read key reports and revise site structure and content accordingly. Participants will also learn how to annotate the reporting timeline and view reports across multiple date ranges. gears icon Working Session Duration: 90 minutes Can’t make Columbia Sites office hours but have questions about specific content types? Come to this working session to get answers and learn from other site owners. We’ll cover advanced site-building techniques and learn more about manipulating the auto-populated content types. clock icon Office Hours Attended a training but still have questions? Drop by our office hours. Sign up for a one-on-one session with one of our team members. You must have already completed at least one training or workshop. Sign up for trainings and workshops Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close