Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Accessibility Accessibility Web accessibility refers to the inclusive practice of removing barriers that prevent interaction with, or access to websites or content, by people with disabilities. When sites are correctly designed, developed and edited, all users have equal access to information and functionality. Why create accessible sites? You are legally bound by Americans with Disabilities Act Accessible technology has opened up the world for people with disabilities Coding for accessibility results in faster load times, fewer bugs, improved SEO and support for more devices Columbia Sites already meet WCAG AA standards. In order to keep accessibility to this standard, there are several areas website maintainers/content writers need to be aware: Content Images Documents Content The single most important concept when writing content is to keep all it short and simple. Simplified content benefits everyone: Users with cognitive difficulties Users quickly scanning a page Mobile users reading on-the-go Users where english is a second language Guidelines MOST IMPORTANT: Keep content short and simple. Aim for your content to read at a 10th grade level. There are many tools on the web to test the grade level of content. Readability checker will grade your content (NOTE: Use “test by direct link” tab) Use capitalization sparingly Avoid acronyms and always spell out on first reference Use built-in bulleted or numbered lists, with multiple levels using different numbering schemes on each level Make link text descriptive; never use "click here" Don’t underline text that is not a link Images Image Creation Avoid bright strobing images, which can cause photoepileptic seizures. Make sure colorblind users can understand images that use color to convey information. The tool Vischeck removes color from a webpage to help with your assessment. Do not use images for text. Use real HTML text instead. Image Alternative (ALT) Tags Every time you upload an image to your site, you must enter an ALT tag. Screen readers read ALT tags for users who cannot see the images. Make your ALT tag descriptive of the image in its context on the page Aim for tag not to exceed 150 characters If the image is not important make the ALT tag “” Document Guidelines Document Creation The core steps needed for accessibility are the same regardless of whether your document is in HTML, Microsoft Word, Adobe PDF, or another document format: Use headings. Use lists. Use ALT text for images. Additional Resources Create accessible PDFs Create accessible Microsoft Word documents Page Headings All sections on the page must use headers. Headers must be used to signify sections of content. Must use built in header formatting Do not use your own bolding or formatting for headers. Headers must be nested correctly. The first header MUST be H2. Sub headers cannot skip any levels. Example: H2 > H3 CORRECT H2 > H4 WRONG Headers cannot be used to emphasize content Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close