Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Content Editor Adding anchors Adding anchors Anchors are links on a page that "jump" to different parts of that same page. You can decide if your page is long enough with different sections that it warrants anchors. Anchoring into the same page Go to the page where you want to add anchor links. In another window, open the same page in view mode. In the view mode window, roll over the content to which you want your anchor to link. On the left side of the paragraph you will see a link icon. IMPORTANT: each content block entered has it's own anchor link for you to anchor into. If you want to anchor into a sub-section of an existing content block, that section must be entered as its own content block. I.e., you cannot anchor into portions of a single content block. Click the link icon. The URL browser bar will update with the paragraph anchor location. Copy the part of the URL that updated after clicking the link icon (in this example you would copy cu_info_card_274). Original URL before the link icon is clicked Additional URL information after link icon is clicked Go back to window with the page in edit mode. Using the WYSIWYG highlight or create text which will become the anchor link. Create a link, pasting the URL portion from Step 6. Add a # before the pasted text (In this example, my link will be #cu_info_card_274). Anchoring into a different page You can create a link on an "originating" page to go directly to an anchor on a different "anchored" page. Follow steps 1 - 5 above On the "anchored" page, copy the part of the URL that updates after clicking the link icon Go to the "originating" page and follow steps 8-10 above In this example, paste /content/about-us#/text-3089 into the link field. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close