Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Clients Clients Clients Ask us about the services we provided to these clients and how long it took to launch their sites. Research Models Center for Molecular Recognition The Center for Molecular Recognition availed themselves of the full complement of Columbia Sites workshops as well as the content migration service. Grueber Lab Over the course of their launch effort, the Grueber Lab used the full complement of Columbia Sites workshops and the content migration service. K=1 Project K=1 Project Launching the K=1 Project site required minimal training largely to due to a group of dedicated students who migrated content under the direction of a Columbia Sites editor. The Workplace Center The Workplace Center used the content migration and editorial services of the Columbia Sites team and launched their site after attending several of the trainings and workshops. Electronic Lab Notebooks Electronic Lab Notebooks The Electronic Lab Notebooks team completed a few training sessions with the Columbia Sites team and launched their site after completing the content migration process on their own. Bruno Lab Bruno Lab The epiCURE Center The epiCURE Center The SAFE Lab The SAFE Lab Administration Model International Students and Scholars Office The web team at ISSO launched their new site with minimal training but with assistance from Columbia Sites on information architecture and content strategy. Tompkins Hall Tompkins Hall Tompkins Hall met with a Columbia Sites editor three times, including training, and launched their site with some advice on information architecture and use of images. Facilities & Operations Facilities & Operations The new online portal for Facilities & Operations drew extensively on services provided by Columbia Sites. Columbia Community Service Columbia Community Service This site began with an inquiry about upgrading an existing site and launched after two training sessions and minimal user experience and editorial input from the Columbia Sites team. Center for American Studies Center for American Studies The Center for American Studies relied exclusively on services provided by Columbia Sites. Public Safety Public Safety With help content migration help from the Columbia Sites team, Public Safety launched their site using our Administration template. UPA Breast Study UPA Breast Study With our easy to use platform, this one page site was completed within a few hours of the client's request for a new site. I was moved to production within five days. Columbia Research The client approached us with a mission; combine 10 separate sites into one. Collaborating with the Columbia Sites team, the new site went through extensive user research and testing. Academic Model Department of Psychology This group launched their site with support from the Columbia Sites team on content strategy, information architecture, photography, and content migration. Columbia French Department The Columbia Sites team worked very closely with the French department on the site's information architecture, user research and testing. Department of Anthropology African American and African Diaspora Studies Department Department of English and Comparative Literature Department of Germanic Languages Department of Political Science Department of Religion Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close