Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Social Links Menu Center for Professional Development Primary Menu Menu Search for: About Us Mission, Vision, & Values Facts and Figures Meet the CPD Team Students Handshake (Career Platform) Finding Opportunities Jobs and Internships Recruiting Program Overview & Instructions Funding Resources Guides Grad & Professional School Employers About Dartmouth Students Post a Job or Internship Join our Recruiting Program Internship & Job Fair Visiting Dartmouth’s Campus Become an Employer Partner Faculty and Staff Families Diversity Resources Alumni Search for: Welcome! Our Mission The CPD empowers our diverse undergraduate student community to confidently pursue career goals. The Center for Professional Development (CPD) supports all Dartmouth undergraduates in exploring career interests, identifying strengths and opportunities, applying for jobs and internships, preparing for interviews, and learning about the professional world. We work collaboratively with employers, alumni, faculty, parents, and other colleagues – all of whom help educate students about the ever-changing world of work. We provide a range of services to Dartmouth students, including individual and group career coaching, self-assessment tools, employer events, and other resources that complement personal and academic growth while helping students identify and pursue career goals. From job shadow experiences, fireside chats and networking strategies - to career fairs, targeted internship/job resources, and interviews - our efforts are designed to support students throughout each phase of their career development. We support all students from all different backgrounds and career interests. Whether you are curious about sustainability, social impact, government, healthcare, technology, consulting or another field, we can provide resources and support for exploring and identifying opportunities. To begin engaging with our office, students may log into our Handshake system and create a profile. Handshake provides access to CPD workshops, coaching appointments, how-to guides, and internship resources, as well as targeted invitations to employer events/opportunities that may match students’ unique interests. Stop by our office, meet our team and learn more. Main Sidebar Handshake Student Login Follow Us on CPD's Instagram Dartmouth Career Network ALUMNI COUNCIL TIPS CURRENT HOURS Monday - Friday 8:30 am - Noon and 1:00 pm - 5:00 pm Got a question or need help? -Employers: Email srs@dartmouth.edu -Students: Email cpd@dartmouth.edu For a resume review, interview help or general career advice, log into Handshake to schedule a 30-minute appointment with one of our CPD Career Coaches. Center for Professional Development 63 South Main Street, 2nd Floor Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646-2215 cpd@dartmouth.edu Footer Content My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.