Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search China Health Partnership 哈佛中国健康合作项目 About Us About Us People Partners Opportunities Research Meaningful Ageing Primary Health Care in Rural China Integrated Delivery in Ningxia Bureaucracy and Heath Policy China and COVID-19 Past Research Projects Publications Executive Education In the News Events Upcoming Events Past Events China & COVID-19 Mailing List NHSA Executive Education Program 2021 Read More HCHP held the “Third Annual Flagship Training on Effective and Sustainable Health Care Financing” in partnership with China’s National Healthcare Security Administration (NHSA), which oversees public health insurance programs covering 96% of China’s population. The training brought together senior national and provincial NHSA personnel to discuss lessons from global health reform experience. Read More Meaningful Ageing Roundtable Read More HCHP assembled an interdisciplinary group of experts to share ideas, research and practical experience to help China develop a health and eldercare system to meet the needs of its ageing population. Organized over two sessions, the Roundtable explored fundamental questions about meaningful living and dying and looked to global examples of innovative eldercare models to generate new insights. Read More Partnerships Spanning the Public Health Community Read More We have an extensive network of China-based partnerships across academic institutions, government agencies, national hospital-affiliated research centers, and health-focused private enterprises that enable us to conduct timely, relevant, and impactful research on China’s health system. Read More China and Global Experience with COVID-19 Read More We proudly present webinars examining the effects of COVID-19 on public health in China and the world during the pandemic as well as in the post-COVID-19 era: telemedicine, mental health, economic growth, maternal and child health, and more. Read More 21st Century Barefoot Doctors Read More A modernized barefoot doctor system that leverages big biomedical data and novel machine learning methods—“21st-century barefoot doctors”—holds promises for providing high quality primary health care that people trust. Read More Meaningful Ageing How can China ensure its rapidly ageing population not only has access to the kind of health care it needs but is also empowered to pursue meaningful lives? Read more... Primary Health Care and Medical Impoverishment in Rural China Can improving chronic disease management at the primary care level reduce medical impoverishment in rural China? Read more... Integrated Care Pilot in Ningxia Can a combination of provider payment, organization change, management and digital technology improve the implementation of integrated primary care in rural China? Read more... Bureaucracy and Health Policymaking How does bureaucratic behavior influence health policymaking and implementation in China? Read more... Twenty-First Century Barefoot Doctor (21BFD) How can over 500 million people in rural China receive good quality primary health care? Read more... China & COVID-19 Our “Global Experience with COVID-19” series examined COVID-19‘s effects on public health in China and beyond, and our scholars' expertise was sought by organizations around the world. Read more... Upcoming Events Jun 2 9:00 pm - 10:15 pm Meaningful Dying and End of Life Care in China View Calendar What's New May 12, 2022 HCHP Newsletter – China Health Connection: Issue 3 The third issue of the Harvard China Health Partnership’s newsletter China Health Connection has been released. This newsletter brings readers updates on… Continue reading “HCHP Newsletter – China Health Connection: Issue 3” May 9, 2022 Researcher Profile: Hao Zhang Meet Dr. Hao Zhang, Post-Doctoral Research Fellow Part of an occasional series of windows into the lives of researchers on… Continue reading “Researcher Profile: Hao Zhang” May 9, 2022 Researcher Profile: Xuanyi (Max) Nie Meet Dr. Xuanyi (“Max”) Nie, Post-Doctoral Research Fellow Part of an occasional series of windows into the lives of researchers… Continue reading “Researcher Profile: Xuanyi (Max) Nie” April 13, 2022 Healthy Ageing: Societal and Medical Support for the Elderly Population in China At a Chinese-language event attracting more than 450 participants from across the globe, Dr. Wannian Liang, Executive Vice Dean of… Continue reading “Healthy Ageing: Societal and Medical Support for the Elderly Population in China” March 25, 2022 What Waits Ahead for the Private Health Care Providers in China? (featuring Professor Winnie Yip) At the 2022 China Conference organized by Harvard Kennedy School’s Greater China Society, Professor Winnie Yip, Director of the Harvard China… Continue reading “What Waits Ahead for the Private Health Care Providers in China? (featuring Professor Winnie Yip)” March 23, 2022 Population Ageing, Pension System, and Retirement Income Security in China Dr. Hanming Fang is Joseph M. Cohen Term Professor in Economics at the University of Pennsylvania. He is an applied microeconomist with broad… Continue reading “Population Ageing, Pension System, and Retirement Income Security in China” March 2, 2022 New Publication: Informal Payments and Patients’ Perceptions of the Physician Agency Problem: Evidence from Rural China Informal payment for medical services is a common phenomenon in China. Patients make informal payments, in cash or in kind,… Continue reading “New Publication: Informal Payments and Patients’ Perceptions of the Physician Agency Problem: Evidence from Rural China” February 23, 2022 Health Philanthropy in China: Report by the Centre for Asian Philanthropy and Society (featuring Professor Winnie Yip) The Centre for Asian Philanthropy and Society (CAPS) has published a series of China Issue Guides that examine philanthropic activity… Continue reading “Health Philanthropy in China: Report by the Centre for Asian Philanthropy and Society (featuring Professor Winnie Yip)” February 23, 2022 New Publication: Technology Platforms Are Revolutionizing Health Care Service Delivery in China In this article, we describe China’s Internet health market and illustrate how technology platforms are revolutionizing health care delivery. We… Continue reading “New Publication: Technology Platforms Are Revolutionizing Health Care Service Delivery in China” February 21, 2022 China’s COVID-19 Policy Response At an LSE event entitled “China and the World in the Post-COVID Era,” Dr. Winnie Yip, Professor of Global Health… Continue reading “China’s COVID-19 Policy Response” Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College