Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Library Muse Inspiring Ideas From the Dartmouth Library Primary Menu Menu Search for: Muse Home Library Main Site Search for: Dartmouth Library Fellowships available for 2022-23! Published on March 4, 2022Author Morgan SwanLeave a comment on Dartmouth Library Fellowships available for 2022-23! Three Dartmouth Library fellowships provide a terrific opportunity for graduates to explore different careers in libraries and gain practical experience. These are one year, full-time paid positions ($17/hour for 37.5 hours/week) with benefits (the Fellowship award amount includes salary, benefits, and professional development). Applications are due April 4, 2022, for first consideration. Please visit the following link to apply: HTTP://DARTGO.ORG/LIBRARY-FELLOWSHIPS. Note that this form links to all three Library Fellowships, so be sure to select the Lathem SPECIAL COLLECTIONS Fellowship for your application unless you intend to apply to multiple fellowships. Eligibility: These fellowships are open to recent Dartmouth graduates. Please note: Candidates must have completed their Dartmouth degree (graduate or undergraduate) before July 1, 2022. Compensation, Benefits, and Tenure: These are one-year, full-time paid fellowships with Dartmouth benefits. The term of employment is July 1, 2022, to June 30, 2023. The positions will each be paid $17/hour for 37.5 hours/week. Edward Connery Lathem '51 Digital Library Fellowship The Edward Connery Lathem '51 Digital Library Fellowship provides an opportunity for a graduating student or recent graduate of Dartmouth to spend a year learning about and contributing to new directions in the open dissemination of digital materials resulting from Dartmouth’s scholarship, research, and educational activities. The Fellowship is tailored to the individual interests of the Digital Fellow in support of Digital by Dartmouth Library, the Scholarly Communication Program, the Research Data Management Program, and the Library's web team. The Fellow is encouraged to develop independent projects that further these missions. The Fellowship offers opportunities for knowledge and experience with: Digital publishing, including copyright and metadata Digital humanities projects Developing digital collections Research data management in a variety of disciplines Library web development and user experience projects Teaching and marketing about digital initiatives Collaborating on projects with other Fellows and staff across the Dartmouth Library Strong interpersonal and communication skills, comfort with information technology, and an enthusiasm for learning new tools and concepts are essential. Creative thinking, grace in handling multiple projects, and a sense of humor are welcomed! Jones Memorial Digital Media Fellowship The Jones Memorial Digital Media Fellowship provides an opportunity for a graduating student or recent graduate of Dartmouth College to spend a year learning digital media technology as applied to the academic curriculum and careers in librarianship. The fellowship may be tailored to the individual interests of the candidate where their skills support the mission of the Jones Media Center. Successful applicants will be highly motivated and innovative individuals, with strong academic records and an interest and aptitude for working with digital media hardware and software. Outstanding interpersonal and communications skills and an enthusiasm for helping students, faculty and other library patrons use new technology are essential. Responsibilities: Develop skills using digital media hardware and software Produce multimedia exhibits and promotional materials Assist students, faculty, staff and alumni with their multimedia projects Learn about media preservation and restoration Teach workshops on digital media software applications Gain experience with library collections, systems and services Edward Connery Lathem '51 Special Collections Fellowship The Edward Connery Lathem '51 Special Collections Fellowship provides recent Dartmouth graduates with an opportunity to explore through practical hands-on experience a wide variety of core skills related to careers in special collections, archives, and heritage institutions. Examples include: Working on a year-long project or series of long-term projects focused on the priorities of Rauner Special Collections Library with consideration for the professional and personal interests of the Fellow Evaluating, organizing, and describing digital and physical collections for the purpose of public access Assisting researchers with their questions about the collections, both during regular desk shifts in the reading room and via e-mail responses to remote inquiries Learning how to develop lesson plans and to teach effectively with primary sources Curating exhibits and generating social media content Serving on library committees and working groups, according to personal interest and library needs Successful applicants will be highly motivated individuals with an interest in working with libraries, archives, or museums. Intellectual curiosity and strong interpersonal and communication skills are the most important qualifications for this position. Published on March 4, 2022Author Morgan SwanCategories Dartmouth College LibraryLeave a comment on Dartmouth Library Fellowships available for 2022-23! Dartmouth Library Fellowships available for 2021-22! Published on March 1, 2021Author Morgan SwanLeave a comment on Dartmouth Library Fellowships available for 2021-22! Every year, three Dartmouth Library Fellowships provide opportunities for recent graduates to explore different types of careers in libraries and to gain practical experience. The Edward Connery Lathem '51 Digital Library Fellowship provides an opportunity for a graduating student or current graduate student of Dartmouth College to spend a year learning and contributing to aspects of digital library production, delivery, assessment and preservation. The fellowship may be tailored to the individual interests of the candidate where their skills support the mission of Digital by Dartmouth Library (DxDL). The Jones Memorial Digital Media Fellowship provides an opportunity for a graduating student or recent graduate of Dartmouth College to spend a year learning digital media technology as applied to the academic curriculum and careers in librarianship. The fellowship may be tailored to the individual interests of the candidate where their skills support the mission of the Jones Media Center. The Edward Connery Lathem ’51 Special Collections Fellowship offers recent Dartmouth graduates an opportunity to work in Rauner Special Collections Library and gain valuable experience with archives, manuscripts and rare books. The fellow will work on a major project tailored to his or her skills and interests while gaining a general overview of special collections librarianship. All three fellowships are one year, full-time paid positions with benefits. First consideration of applications will begin on April 5, 2021. To apply for any or all, visit https://dartgo.org/library-fellowships. Published on March 1, 2021Author Morgan SwanCategories Dartmouth College LibraryLeave a comment on Dartmouth Library Fellowships available for 2021-22! The Interaction of Color 1 Published on October 9, 2020December 11, 2020Author Laura Graveline1 Comment on The Interaction of Color In visual perception a color is almost never seen as it really is—as it physically is. This fact makes color the most relative medium in art.” –Josef Albers Thanks to the enthusiastic support of the Josef and Anni Albers Foundation, Yale University Press has recently launched the A&AePortal edition of Alber's Interaction of Color. During the 1960s, Josef Albers and his wife artist Anni developed 150 silk screen prints that demonstrated how colors behaved differently depending on what color they were next to. These beautiful color prints have taught generations of artists a new way to think about color and how colors create different dialogues depending on what colors they are in close proximity with. This groundbreaking work is currently held in the Dartmouth's Sherman Art Library Special Collection In addition to Albers’s original commentary and instruction, the A&AePortal version features high-resolution reproductions of the color plates and video of experts discussing some of the color exercises from the book (see example, below). https://www-aaeportal-com.dartmouth.idm.oclc.org/?id=-20314 The four X';s in the print below are one color that looks like different when place next to other colors. The A&AePortal edition of the Interaction of Color is a new way to introduce student’s to this extraordinary publication and a useful supplement to the print edition in classes. Published on October 9, 2020December 11, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Dartmouth College Library, Sherman Art LibraryTags Art, Art History, Book Arts1 Comment on The Interaction of Color Victorian Faces/Facial Politics Published on September 15, 2020Author Laura GravelineLeave a comment on Victorian Faces/Facial Politics This collection was put together by students in Christie Harner's ENGL 62.16 class, “Victorian Faces / Facial Politics, ” this Summer. The collection highlights themes of social identity, medical history, scientific policing and detection, and racial ethnography in nineteenth-century Britain. A servants' employment agency where prospective employees are having their heads phrenologically examined as to their suitability by W. Taylor You can explore the collection through the Dartmouth Library's Artstor subscription: https://library.artstor.org/#/collection/100114507 Published on September 15, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Dartmouth College LibraryLeave a comment on Victorian Faces/Facial Politics Discover the A&AE Portal Published on August 3, 2020Author Laura GravelineLeave a comment on Discover the A&AE Portal Unique and Transformative The A&AePortal is a ebook resource that features important works of scholarship in the history of art, architecture, decorative arts, photography, and design. With innovative functionality and extensive metadata, the site offers students and scholars an engaging experience, encouraging critical thinking skills and supporting rigorous academic research. Exclusive and authoritative Many out-of-print titles, key backlist, and recent releases from the world’s finest academic and museum publishers are available as eBooks exclusively on this site. Peer-reviewed born-digital content will also be available uniquely on the A&AePortal. Innovative functionality With innovative search features, zoom capabilities, an interactive online reader, plus supplemental audio and video, the A&AePortal enables researchers to make efficient and effective connections between texts and related images. The site also provides opportunities for the publication of new forms of scholarship. Discoverable and centralized Deep text and image tagging allow researchers to study scholarship across multiple eBooks from a variety of major publishers, yielding rich and exciting results. Accessible and affordable Instantly expand your library’s collection by subscribing to the A&AePortal. Multi-user permissions provide classrooms with convenient access to chapters and customizable coursepacks without additional cost. Discover content by image Once a researcher identifies an image of interest, the A&AePortal provides all of the chapters on the site in which the image is referenced. The researcher can then quickly move between publications to read the various interpretations of the same image. https://www-aaeportal-com.dartmouth.idm.oclc.org/ Published on August 3, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Sherman Art LibraryTags Architecture, Art, Art History, digital resources, ebooks, Studio ArtLeave a comment on Discover the A&AE Portal La Cortada Published on July 9, 2020December 11, 2020Author Laura GravelineLeave a comment on La Cortada La Cortada is the story of Cuban American scholar Ruth Behar’s immigration from Cuba to America. She was almost 5 when her family immigrated, but unlike other family and friends who immigrated around the same age, she had no memories of her life in Cuba. Because of this her family called her La Cortada, referring to one who has been cut off, lost their speech, their memories. Behar had become painfully shy and continued to be so even as she became a college professor. In search of her early childhood memories, and perhaps a key to the laughing little girl her family remembered in Cuba, Behar traveled to Cuba to get to know the family left behind, including a woman, Caro, who cared for her as a little girl. Behar’s mother had told her Cuba was so safe when she was a child, that she would let her ride alone in a taxi to visit her aunts. When Ruth said she couldn’t remember the taxi or anything from that time, Caro told her she had come home from a visit to her aunts and told Caro that the man had pinched her thighs the whole way home and refused to get back in a taxi again. Ruth never told anyone else what happened, and she realized it was at that time that her memory cut off. She lost her happy memories and her laughter, but also her fear and her sadness at what happened. First published in 1997 story was published in Cuba by Ediciones Vigia in 2004, a cooperative of Cuban artists that create handmade books in editions of 200, using mostly recycled materials. This edition is designed by artist Rolando Estévez in English and Spanish, and includes a puzzle image of La Cortada in a back pocket that, like Behar's memories, can be pieced back together. Published on July 9, 2020December 11, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Sherman Art LibraryTags Artists' BooksLeave a comment on La Cortada Discover Materials! in JSTOR Forum Published on May 27, 2020May 28, 2020Author Laura GravelineLeave a comment on Discover Materials! in JSTOR Forum Professor Ulrike Wegst at the Thayer School of Engineering developed a library of material samples that allows students to explore the structures, properties, and processing characteristics of common metals, ceramics, polymers, composites, and natural materials. Understanding these materials informs the process and selection for their projects, prototypes and manufacture in the shops at Thayer and the HOP. Foam, Metal,  Discover Materials!, accessed May 27, 2020, https://discovermaterials.omeka.net/items/show/413. To make the materials samples more accessible, Prof. Wegst worked with students to photograph materials and create data sheets about these materials that could be viewed on a website. Maintaining the website required some programming background and created website maintenance issues. Prof Wegst and her students assistants were able to work with Mina Rakhra from the library to create material templates in JSTOR Forum where students can add and update materials information with consistent terminology, and publish directly to an OMEKA website. Students helped to create supporting documentation for new students working on the project, as well online exhibits from the materials library, such as the Food for Thought Exhibit on chocolate, https://discovermaterials.omeka.net/exhibits/show/food-for-thought/chocolate Cacao Pod & Bean Samples The physical Discover Materials! Collection is located in Dartmouth's Thayer School of Engineering, next to the machine shop. The collection consists of hundreds of materials and products, with information to guide students with materials selection for their projects. Browse the collection online: https://discovermaterials.omeka.net/collections/browse?sort_field=Dublin+Core%2CTitle The collection is also being added to Dartmouth's public collections in Artstor: https://library.artstor.org/#/collection/100075907 Published on May 27, 2020May 28, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Sherman Art LibraryLeave a comment on Discover Materials! in JSTOR Forum St. Paul’s: A Virtual Basilica Published on May 6, 2020Author Laura GravelineLeave a comment on St. Paul’s: A Virtual Basilica Dartmouth has added a web-based companion to the book: St. Paul’s Outside the Walls: A Roman Basilica from Antiquity to the Modern Era by Art History professor Nicola Camerlenghi, (Cambridge University Press, 2018). This virtual companion to Professor Nicola Camerlenghi book is part of Dartmouth's JSTOR Forum Institutional Collections in Artstor: https://library.artstor.org/#/collection/100070627 Prof. Camerlenghi's research traces nearly two thousand years of physical transformations to one of Rome's most influential churches, the Basilica of St Paul. The history of St. Paul's is traced from before its construction in the fourth century to its reconstruction following a fire in 1823. By recounting this long history, he restores the building to its rightful place as a central, active participant in epochal political and religious shifts in Rome and across Christendom, as well as a protagonist in Western art and architectural history. He also examines how buildings in general trigger memories and anchor meaning, and how and why buildings endure, evolve, and remain relevant in cultural contexts far removed from the moment of their inception. At its core, Saint Paul's exemplifies the concept of building as a process, not a product: a process deeply interlinked with religion, institutions, history, cultural memory, and the arts. This study also includes state-of-the-art digital reconstructions synthesizing a wealth of historical evidence to visualize and analyze the earlier (now lost) stages of the building's history, offering glimpses into heretofore unexamined parts of its long, rich life. Published on May 6, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Dartmouth College LibraryLeave a comment on St. Paul’s: A Virtual Basilica Receuïl de Lions by Bernard Picart Published on April 29, 2020Author Laura GravelineLeave a comment on Receuïl de Lions by Bernard Picart Born in Paris in 1673 Bernard Picart was a French artist who spent much of his life in Amsterdam and is most well known for his book illustrations. In a time of religious unrest in Europe, Bernard was radically committed to religious tolerance and his best known work, Cérémonies et coutumes religieuses de tous les peuples du monde, was an attempt to document religious beliefs from around the world as objectively as possible. It is an immense work of 12 volumes and 266 engravings which he produced between 1723-1743. Picart himself never traveled outside of Europe, but relied on written accounts and sketches from travelers to India, the Americas and other regions. He published Receuïl de Lions in 1728 as a series of 12 small engravings 13x 20cm. Three he drew himself from life, seven are engravings after Rembrandt drawings, and one is after Paulus Potter, a 17th century Dutch artist famous for his paintings of animals. This small ‘pocket edition’ was so popular Picart issued a much larger edition in 1729 of 42 prints that was 20x26.5cm. Receuïl de Lions: dessins d’apres nature par Rembrandt et B.. Picart 1728 Sherman Art Library Special Collection N7668.L56 P53 1728 https://search.library.dartmouth.edu/permalink/01DCL_INST/1j9oqr/alma991025092119705706 Published on April 29, 2020Author Laura GravelineCategories Dartmouth College LibraryLeave a comment on Receuïl de Lions by Bernard Picart Holding Court: Lucas C. Hollister Published on March 9, 2020February 3, 2020Author TanviLeave a comment on Holding Court: Lucas C. Hollister Photograph of Lucas Hollister In this week's edition, we speak with Lucas C. Hollister, Assistant Professor of French and Italian Languages and Literatures. In his most recent book 'Beyond Return Genre and Cultural Politics in Contemporary French Fiction', he proposes new perspectives on the cultural politics of fictions. Examining adventure novels, radical noir, postmodernist mysteries, war novels, and dystopian fictions, Hollister shows how authors like Jean Echenoz, Jean-Patrick Manchette, Jean Rouaud, and Antoine Volodine develop radically dissimilar notions of the aesthetics of 'return', and thus redraw in different manners the boundaries of the contemporary, the French, and the literary. What is your book about? How popular fictional forms are politicized in France, and about how these cultural forms are used to define the “contemporary.” Where did you get your idea(s) for this book? While I was reading literary histories and criticism, I was struck by how many of the dominant accounts of the present or “contemporary” relied on a narrative about a “return to the story” after the decline of the postwar avant-gardes in France. As an avid reader of genre fiction (of both the low and high varieties) and of French modernist literature, I found the topic fascinating. I was also skeptical of what I saw as the anti-modernist and anti-intellectual undercurrents of this argument. I started to study this topic, in short, because I wanted to orient myself in the cultural field and I wanted to think about how literature was politicized today. Eventually, this led me to take a deeper dive into the novels of a few authors—notably Jean-Patrick Manchette, Jean Echenoz, and Antoine Volodine— whom I felt represented particularly ingenious ways of working with crime fiction, mystery, war fiction, and dystopian fiction. What does research look like for you? What element of research could you not live without? I read as much as I can. Working with contemporary authors and texts means that I don’t get to do a lot of the fun archival digging that scholars from earlier periods do, but I take occasional research trips to libraries and archives in France. The spaces my work cannot do without are the spaces I find to read, the space of the classroom where I work out ideas with students, and the space of French literary culture. What do you think the library of the future will look like? An indefinite, perhaps infinite number of hexagonal galleries. The arrangement of the galleries is always the same: Twenty bookshelves, five to each side, line four of the hexagon’s six sides; the height of the bookshelves, floor to ceiling, is hardly greater than the height of a normal librarian. One of the hexagon’s free sides opens onto a narrow sort of vestibule, which in turn opens onto another gallery, identical to the first—identical in fact to all. A spiral staircase winds upward and downward into the remotest distance. In the vestibule there is a mirror, which faithfully reduplicates appearances. Light is provided by certain spherical fruits that bear the name “bulbs.” There are two of these bulbs in each hexagon, set crosswise. The light they give is insufficient, and unceasing. Pessimistically, one might also imagine it as a screen whose real function is to read us. What advice would you give to an aspiring scholar or writer? To read and write a lot. To work hard to improve how you read and write. To seek out your blind spots and deficiencies. To cultivate a network of people who can read your work critically. To be generous with yourself, trust your own intellect and follow your interests wherever they lead you. And finally, what do you read for fun? I have the defect of thinking that almost everything I study and teach is fun. That said, I would love to read more Sebald, to read the pockets of Borges I haven’t yet read, and to reread Tolstoy, Flaubert, Joyce, Kafka, Woolf. I have a book project right now called Bad Natures, for which I am currently reading a lot of climate fiction and eco-horror. Recently I enjoyed reading Samanta Schweblin’s Fever Dream and Mouthful of Birds. Published on March 9, 2020February 3, 2020Author TanviCategories Dartmouth College LibraryTags holding courtLeave a comment on Holding Court: Lucas C. Hollister Posts navigation Page 1 Page 2 … Page 88 Next page Main Sidebar Archives Archives Select Month March 2022 March 2021 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 September 2019 August 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 January 2017 November 2016 August 2016 July 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 Categories Biomedical Libraries Book Arts Workshop Dartmouth College Library Evans Map Room Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Jones Media Center Kresge Physical Sciences Library Library Labs Paddock Music Library Preservation Services Rauner Special Collections Library Sherman Art Library Tags Alumni antarctic Artists' Books Astronomy Book Arts Chemistry Chipman Diary Computer Science Correspondence Dartmouth Authors Dartmouth History Digital Library Program Earth Sciences Elephant Island Endurance Expedition Engineering eResources Ernest Shackleton Exhibits History History of the Book holding court Imperial Trans-Arctic Expedition Library Collections Library Spaces Literature LTQ Manuscripts Maps Mathematics Medicine Open Access Orde-Lees Diary Photography Physics Rare Books Research Scholarly Publishing scholarship Science Special Collections Tech Tips Tools Writing WWI Footer Content My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback