Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Create a service Create a service This template is good for straight content that needs to be categorized into subcategories. It does not pull in information from other pages. Typically used for informational pages groups into subcategories. Features Categorize by subcategory. Users will be able to filter by category on Service Landing page Optional summary displays on top of page Showcase optional Image Carousel, Single Image, or Video displays From the top navigation menu, click on Shortcuts > Add Content. From the Add Content menu, choose Service. Enter Title. Select a Category and Audience for the service. These are used as a filters on the Services Landing page. IMPORTANT: You must select a category and audience when creating a Service. If there are no values set for these, you must first create the taxonomy [Optional] Enter page summary. Select "Display summary on page" if you want the summary entered to appear on the top of this page. The summary text will appear slightly larger than the body text on your page. [Optional] You may choose ONE type of featured content, which displays prominently on the top of the page. Use this section to build out the bulk of the page. Select the appropriate item in the dropdown for the section of the page you need to create. Create Services linking to external sites You are able to create services that still are listed and filtered appropriately but link externally. This may be helpful if you have an umbrella site, for example, where the service details exist on an external site. Follow steps 1 - 5 above Enter in the Outbound URL Instead of building out the details for the service (steps 6 - 7 above) just enter the URL to where the service title will link. When users click on the service link they will go to the URL specified. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close