Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Release Notes Columbia Sites 1.84 Release Notes Columbia Sites 1.84 Release notes for verions 1.84 of the Columbia Sites customized Drupal 8 platform, released July 20, 2020. July 23, 2020 New Stuff Timeline now includes the ability to filter by category and keyword, which is super useful when there are a large number of events. There are three new categories. The first is required; the other two are optional. Each category can be labeled in Site Settings. There’s a new Views Display for the Documents content type; content managers can now opt to sort documents alphabetically by title. Views Displays for Courses in the Academic Model now display an additional semester. The font size for Pull Quotes was, errr, a little large, so we toned it down a bit. That question mark that was showing up on images to indicate the presence of a caption? Yeah, it didn’t work for us either. We swapped it for an “i,” the icon for information. Videos now can be displayed in a row of three, sorted by publication date or term ID. The new Views Displays are called—wait for it—Row of Three and Row of Three (Requires Term ID). We’re good with words; we know. Each view can be displayed with or without summaries. Things We Fixed In the Academic Model, some Courses were appearing twice. We’ve eliminated the duplication. Some Views Displays for the News Article content type have pagination. We’re not sure how the unnecessary “More” link at the bottom of some of those pages got there, but we vanquished it. The Affiliations content type in Research Model was appearing unexpectedly at the top of the page. It didn’t look so great there, so we moved it back to the bottom. Academic Model gets another fix: Profile editors can now edit the WYSIWYG field of their profiles. A change to the YouTube API caused the video player in the Hero content type to only play audio. Cleaned up RSS Feeds so that “invalid date” does not display when the source does not specify a publish date. Tags Release Notes test News July 23, 2020 Columbia Sites 1.84 October 15, 2019 Columbia Sites 1.83 April 01, 2019 Columbia Sites 1.82 September 24, 2018 Columbia Sites 1.81 September 07, 2018 Columbia Sites 1.80 Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close