Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Create a news article Create a news article This template is good for time sensitive content, such as a news article or announcement. It does not "pull" content from anywhere else on the site. News articles will automatically be archived on the site. Features Optional summary displays on top of page Showcase optional Image Carousel, Single Image, or Video displays Optional footer displays on bottom of page From the top navigation menu, click Shortcuts>Add Content. From the Add Content menu, choose News Article. Enter the topic, title and date for the article. The topic appears on top of the article and behaves like a filter; articles with the same topic will appear together when the topic is clicked. The date appears with the article and is also used for sorting articles on the site. [Optional] Enter an editor's note. Enter the authors, each one in a separate box. For each additional author, click Add Another Item. Drag the author boxes to the order you want them listed by dragging the 3 blue dots on the left. [Optional] Enter a summary for the article. The summary displays both on the news feed at the bottom of various pages on the site. Select "Display summary on page" if you want the summary entered to appear on the top of this page. The summary text will appear slightly larger than the body text on your page. [Optional] You may choose ONE type of featured content, which displays prominently on the top of the page. Image specifications: 706 x 400 px, at 72 dpi Carousel specifications: 706 x 400 px, at 72 dpi for each image Use this section to build out the bulk of the page. Select the appropriate item in the dropdown for the section of the page you need to create. [Optional] Tag the article with a topic. Start typing into the text box and if the tag exists, it will become available for selection. If it does not exist, you can still create it here and it will also available for future use. NOTE: Tags can be used to filter articles on landing pages. I.e. Landing pages can be set to display all identically tagged articles. Related info: how to add text, inline image, single image, accordion, image carousel, pull quote, related block, table or video Related User Guide Help Display news articles Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close