Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search Health Professionals Follow-Up Study Home About Publications & Newsletters Questionnaires HPFS Team For HPFS Investigators Interviews FAQ For External Collaborators Contact Address Change Form Coronavirus Resources Health Professionals Follow-up Study About HPFS: The Health Professionals Follow-Up Study (HPFS) began in 1986. The purpose of the study is to evaluate a series of hypotheses about men’s health relating nutritional factors to the incidence of serious illnesses, such as cancer, heart disease, and other vascular diseases. This all-male study is designed to complement the all-female Nurses’ Health Study, which examines similar hypotheses. The HPFS is sponsored by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and is funded by the National Cancer Institute. Learn More About HPFS. Complete this form to receive an invitation to your 2022 Health Professionals Online Survey 90% Questionnaire response rate! Thank you, participants! In 2020, nearly 90% of participants responded to the bi-annual study questionnaire. Their commitment provides the consistent data required to make progress in the study of men’s health. The Nutrition Source How eating right and having an active lifestyle can benefit you. Read More to learn about healthy nutrition choices. News and Recent Research Highlights Red Meat Intake and Risk of Coronary Heart Disease: Our latest findings support a health benefit for men to limit red meat consumption and to replace red meat with plant-based protein sources. Read More Consuming more olive oil is associated with less heart disease in Americans: Our findings support current recommendations to replace saturated and animal fats with unsaturated plant oils. Read More Vitamin D-related Biomarkers Linked with Reduced Mortality Among Patients with Colorectal Cancer: These findings provide further insight on the potential benefit of vitamin D in treating colorectal cancer. Read more Mediterranean diet and cardiometabolic disease risk: Initial finding supports the premise that dietary interventions or recommendations for cardiometabolic disease prevention might be tailored to an individual’s microbial profile, and encourages further research in the area. Read More Sugar-Sweetened Beverages and Health: Research from the HPFS has provided strong evidence linking intake of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB) with long-term weight gain and risk of type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, hypertension, cardiovascular disease risk factors and other cardiometabolic conditions. Read More Germline genetic factors and prostate cancer risk: HPFS investigators have participated in international consortia to identify the specific genetic variants associated with prostate cancer which identified 86 new inherited genetic variants, bringing the total of validated genetic markers associated with prostate cancer to 269. Read More Donations Donations and bequests to the Friends of the Health Professionals Follow-up Study Fund help to sustain our continued work. Donations may be sent to the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. For information on how to give or to make a secure gift online, please visit www.hsph.harvard.edu/give and indicate that the gift is in support of the Friends of the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study Fund. Important Links Change of Address Form Frequently Asked Questions HPFS Questionnaires Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Nurses’ Health Study HSPH Nutrition Source National Cancer Institute 2022 HPFS Meetings Schedule 2022 Online Survey Announcement!! The 2022 Health Professionals Follow-Up Study Online Survey is now active. Thank you very much for your continued participation! If you received a post card invitation, please fill out this form using the survey code on your postcard and an online copy of the survey will be emailed to the address provided. We strongly encourage you to use the online survey, but we will send you a paper form (in June 2022) if we don’t hear from you that way. If you need assistance or have questions, please visit the FAQ page and if we don’t answer your question, please feel free to call us at 617-998-1067. Our 2021 Newsletter is now available! Please read the 2021 HPFS Newsletter online. Our feature article focuses on how healthy lifestyle habits prolong living free of chronic diseases. In addition, you can find information about our recent findings, an interview with one of our HPFS participants, and more. Follow us on TwitterMy Tweets Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website