Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features Redirect URLs Redirect URLs There may be times when you want a URL to re-direct and open a different URL. You are able to re-direct any URL within the same domain. Scenarios for creating re-directs: Perhaps the site navigation is changing and the URL for given information has shifted. A re-direct can be created so users typing in the original URL still get to the content on the updated URL. If you have a campaign to promote a page on the site, you can create whatever snappy URL name you want and then re-direct it to the correct page. If a website splinters off from a larger website redirects can be created so created pages of the original site redirect to the new site. IMPORTANT: You can only set re-directs originating from YOUR site THE PAGE YOU WANT RE-DIRECTED CANNOT EXIST ON YOUR SITE. Instructions 1. Click Shortcuts > Redirects 2. Click the button +Add redirect 3. Enter the path for the URL you want to re-direct. This is the link that users click or type into the URL bar. 4. Enter in the page you want the user to land on when they click the link above. IMPORTANT: THE PAGE YOU WANT RE-DIRECTED CANNOT EXIST ON YOUR SITE. For example, if you want https://sites.columbia.edu/instructions to redirect https://sites.columbia.edu/content/redirect-urls there cannot be a page created for https://sites.columbia.edu/instructions Setting redirects to a different website: type in the full URL for the external site you want to redirect the page Setting redirects to internal pages: type in the name of the page in the To field and select the list of pages suggested from the system. Do not manually type in anything to prevent error. Setting redirects for a document: the To field must contain the machine name. To find the machine name for a document do to the document page and go into edit mode. The URL now displays the machine name for you to copy and paste into the To field. (do not include the /edit text) Setting redirects for pages of one website to redirect to another website This example demonstrates redirecting https://provost.columbia.edu/content/office-planning-and-institutional-research TO https://opir.columbia.edu Go to EDIT the webpage you need redirected For this example, go to https://provost.columbia.edu/content/office-planning-and-institutional-research Uncheck the publish box to this page is UNPUBLISHED Change the URL Alias Roll over the right side of the content entry screen for the webpage and expand the URL Alias information Uncheck the Generate automatic URL alias box and edit the URL Alias field. NOTE: what you change the URL Alias to does not matter. In this example, the alias is changed to /content/office-planning-and-institutional-research2 Remove the new alias just created Go to Redirects and find the alias just created (it should be at the top of the list) and DELETE it. Create the Redirect Within the Redirects tab, Click +Add redirect Enter in the original path to the new one you want the redirect to target Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close