Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Services Services How It Works bullhorn icon Request Fill out the request form. We'll respond within 72 hours with recommendations and a list of next steps. comments icon Onboarding We'll give you an overview of Columbia Sites service offerings, create a scope of work, explain our production process, and schedule training for your team. cubes icon Site Build Creating, editing, and moving content can take a while. If you choose one of our paid service models, we'll help you with this stage of the process. chain-broken icon Pre-launch With all of our models, we'll assist you with choosing a site name, perform a quality control audit, make content recommendations, and test the site to prepare for launch. rocket icon Site Launch Once you're happy with the content and layouts, our developers will run the scripts, configure Google Analytics, and make any necessary domain name switches. link icon Post-launch We'll notify you when the site is live and confirm that everything is working as expected. Service Packages Choose a service model to fit your needs. Basic Package This model is ideal for smaller sites or for teams with content development and site-building experience as well as the resources to build a site on their own. The Basic model provides a blank site template, system patches and updates, and a pre-production site review by the Columbia Sites team. Extended Package Our Extended service package builds upon the Basic package and adds 5 hours of content management and site-building support, as well as content migration assistance. The Extended plan is ideal for teams with smaller sites who don't have the resources needed to migrate content from their existing site to the Columbia Sites template. Premium Package This service model includes most services from the Extended model and is designed for teams with larger sites. This model is ideal for those with the resources needed to migrate content from an existing site to the Columbia Sites template, but need assistance with usability testing, user research, content analysis, and new content development. Ultimate Package Our Ultimate service model includes all Columbia Sites services and is ideal for teams with larger sites or significant user research and content analysis and migration needs. Service Package Checklist of the services included in each model. Services Free Hosting Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Quarterly Patching and Upgrades Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Immediate Patching of Critical Vulnerabilities Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Protected Pages Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Onboarding Review Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Photography Services (fee-based) Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Pre-launch Site Review Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Identity and Branding Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Access to Self-help Guide Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Trainings and Workshops Basic (Free; build your own site) ✓ Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services 5 Hours Site-building Support Post-launch Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) ✓ Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Information Architecture (IA) Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) ✓ Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Content Audit and Google Analytics Analysis Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services User Research Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Usability Testing Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Content Development Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Content Strategy Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Content Migration Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Comparative Analysis Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Services Ideation and Design Thinking Workshops Basic (Free; build your own site) Extended ($3,000; fewer than 20 pages) Premium ($6,000; 20-50 pages) Ultimate (Get a quote for a la carte services) ✓ Columbia Sites may not be used for: - websites that might contain high-risk data, including data subject to HIPAA, FERPA, or other regulatory laws - sites that require sophisticated forms, custom layouts, credit card payments, or other complex user interactions personal - sites for faculty, students, or staff Columbia Sites Services Here's a list of ways we can help you with your new site; let us know if you need additional info. Comparative Analysis and Testing We analyze the competitiveness of your site with peer institutions’ websites to uncover new features and potential gap for new content. This service is available as part of the ultimate package. Content Development We'll make recommendations on how to create great content, organize and edit it, and present it in ways your site visitors will find accessible and appealing. Choose the Extended or Ultimate package to get this service. Content Migration Moving text, images, and video from one site, or platform, to another. If you choose our Extended package, we'll do the heavy-lifting. Content Strategy With our Ultimate package, we'll analyze your resources and goals to help you streamline your website mission, create an efficient editorial workflow, structure your content, and showcase your work. Ideation and Design Thinking Workshops Explore creative ways to solve complex issues by engaging with the end users in a collaborative environment. We take business viability, technical feasibility and user desirability into consideration when we brainstorm together for innovative solutions. Identity and Branding Columbia Creative, our in-house design shop, is responsible for all University branding and will design a number of options for you to review. Pick one for your site and we'll show you how to upload it. Information Architecture We'll work with you to create an information architecture that will inform the content strategy and content development for your new site. Photography Services Members of the Columbia Community can download free images from the Photo Library, or from Columbia Creative's Photo Archive. Some have restricted use, but most are available for University publications and websites. Ask us for stock photography service recommendations Trainings and Workshops Eight workshops designed to help you build your site, create useful content, understand site analytics, and work efficiently are available each month at no cost. Two are required, but attend as many as you want, as often as you want. User Self-help Guide The Columbia Sites User Guide—with tool tips and detailed instructions—is available at any time within the administrative backend of your site. Additional video tutorials will be available in summer 2017. User Research If you choose the Premium and Ultimate packages, we'll identify site audiences and conduct user interviews and surveys to help you optimize information architecture and streamline content. Usability Testing After gathering an audience of targeted end-users, we test your site against a series of pre-defined tasks chosen to match your content and site goals. Pick the Extended or Ultimate package to find out what your users really need from your site. Get Columbia Sites Email us with questions Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close