Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Post-graduate profile Post-graduate profile Post-graduate profiles can be created for Academic Distribution sites. This template is used to create a Post-graduate section of the site. Individual profiles automatically create a post-graduate landing page on the site where all the profile images and names can be seen and individual profiles accessed. Features Optional personal statement displays on top of page Tag profiles to cohort year and career type Enter employer and position IMPORTANT: To create a post-graduate profile taxonomy terms for Cohort Year must have been previously entered. See creating taxonomies From the main menu, click Shortcuts > Add Content > Post-Graduate Profile Enter in the name and profile image NOTE: profiles sort on first name. The image entered displays on the directory page for post-graduates and on their individual profile page. Enter cohort year Cohort year is used for sorting the profiles on their landing page. Cohort years are created in the taxonomy section. See creating taxonomies. Enter "Career Type" NOTE: This pulls from the tags entered into the taxonomy. New entries are automatically created. Enter employer Enter position Optional: enter an Outbound URL link If an Outbound URL link is specified, the profile from the main page will link directly here instead of linking to an internal profile page. NOTE: if an Outbound URL is specified you are done! You will not be able to use the content entry section in the next step because your profile is now linking directly to your URL entered. Enter content for the profile If an Outbound URL was not entered in the previous step, you can create the profile page using any combination of these formatting options. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close