Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth College Republicans Faith, Nation, Duty — Est. 1958 Primary Menu Menu Search for: Home History Contact Us Welcome to the Dartmouth College Republicans! Founded in 1958, we have three guiding values: Faith, Nation, Duty. This is the official website of the Dartmouth College Republicans chapter, founded in 1958. This organization is a member of the New Hampshire Federation of College Republicans and the College Republicans National Committee. As a conservative Republican organization, we strongly affirm Ronald Reagan's admonition: Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn't pass it to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same. In espousing uncompromisingly conservative positions, we strive to uphold Senator Barry Goldwater's declaration at the 1964 Republican National Conference: I would remind you that extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice! And let me remind you also that moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue! This website is under renovation and being updated constantly, so please check back often! Main Sidebar Search for: Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS Sites at Dartmouth Footer Content My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback