Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Image Specifications Quick Reference Image Specifications Quick Reference Find recommended specifications for all the different types of images you can use throughout Columbia Sites. NOTES: All specs are listed height x width in pixels. All images should be 72 dpi. All images are NOT TO EXCEED 2000 x 2000 pixels or 1MB in size. We offer stock images if you need. Please, if applicable, give photo credits when using them. Hero images 450 x 1400 Additional considerations: Depending on the size of the browser window. not all of the hero image will be displayed. The image will get wider with the browser, however the height will generally stay consistent. This is why we recommend images that are very wide, and not tall. Feature images 456 x 1400 Additional considerations: Feature images need to be high quality enough to be full width, however we recommend not making the image too tall, or else it will dominate the content on the page. If an image smaller than Image carousels Basic pages 594 px high x height of the carousel. For example, by default the carousel is set to 500 px high. So, in this case you should upload images that are 594x500. If you set the carousel height to 600, images should be 594x600. Etc... Landing pages 456 x 1400 Image cards The full pixel width of the desktop layout is set to 1170px. Therefore, If your image card spans the entire screen, the image must be at least 1170 px wide If your image card spans half the screen, the image must be at least 585 px wide (1170 px / 2) If your image card spans one third of the screen, the image must be at least 390 px wide (1170 px / 3) etc... IMPORTANT: If you want all the image cards to be the same size and shape, they must all be created in the same width and height pixel ratio. Inline image Width less than 300px Additional considerations: The image should be narrow enough for text to comfortably wrap around. There is no set height specification. When arranging the inline image in the editing interface, place it before the text block you would like the image to appear next to. Single image With sidebar: 709 px wide Without sidebar: more than 640px wide Sidebar image 705px wide Bookshelf images 286 x 432 Columbia Stock Images* * please give photo credits where possible Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close