Skip to content Duke Interdisciplinary Studies Search for: About Interdisciplinary Studies Who We Are News Research Education Engagement Funding Opportunities Funding Opportunities For Faculty For Students Office of Interdisciplinary Studies Interdisciplinarity suffuses Duke’s schools and departments, with our university-wide institutes and initiatives serving as crucial incubators of innovations in research, pedagogy and outreach. The academic strategic plan, Together Duke: Advancing Excellence through Community, strengthens the university’s commitments to fundamental scholarship, a transformative educational experience for every student and engagement with communities around the world on pressing 21st-century challenges. The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies provides central leadership for the university-wide interdisciplinary units—a cornerstone of Duke’s commitment to inquiry across disciplines—and runs the Bass Connections program, which brings together faculty, graduate students and undergraduates to tackle complex societal challenges in interdisciplinary research teams. University-wide Institutes, Initiatives and Centers Learn More Who We Are History and Strategy News Funding Opportunities An Interdisciplinary Culture of Advising, Coaching and Mentoring at Duke Tweet News Provost Internships Awarded to Ph.D. Students for Wide Range of Summer Research Experiences Nineteen Duke University Ph.D. students have received Provost Internships for Summer 2022. These students will partner with Duke ... Register Now for Ph.D. Coaching and Mentoring Groups This Fall This fall, the Office for Interdisciplinary Studies is offering two sets of opportunities for Ph.D. students in all ... Symposium Explores How People and Nature are Inextricably Entwined An April symposium at Grainger Hall, People and Nature, brought a diverse set of speakers, both from Duke ... Ph.D. Students, Apply for Fall 2022 Teaching on Purpose Fellowships Deadline: June 17, 2022 Duke University doctoral students — do you get excited about teaching undergraduates? Do you want ... Ten Ph.D. Students Find Novel Ways to Enhance Their Education This Summer Ten Duke University Ph.D. students have received Graduate Student Training Enhancement Grants (GSTEG) for Summer 2022 from the ... Spots for Duke Ph.D. Students in Yale Summer Dissertation Writing Groups Deadline: May 6, 2022 Duke’s Office of Interdisciplinary Studies invites advanced Duke Ph.D. students in the Humanities or the ... Chris Beyrer Named Director of the Duke Global Health Institute Christopher C. Beyrer, MD, MPH, an internationally recognized epidemiologist who has worked on the front lines of HIV/AIDS ... Duke TeachHouse Recognized as Successful Model Supporting North Carolina Public Education The North Carolina Department of Public Instruction has selected Duke TeachHouse for inclusion in its Promising Practices Clearinghouse, ...More news Copyright © 2022 Duke Interdisciplinary Studies. All rights reserved. Theme: Radiate by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress. Duke University Duke Interdisciplinary Studies is powered by WordPress at Duke WordPress Sites. Please read the Duke Wordpress Policies. Contact the Duke WordPress team.