Skip to content AGILE AAPI in Geoscience: Inclusivity, Leadership, and Experience Menu Primary Menu Home Research Internships Researcher Visits People Home Welcome to the AGILE (AAPI in Geoscience: Inclusivity, Leadership, and Experience) website! A multi-institution project supported by an NSF GOLD-EN award that includes programs to enhance participation and belonging for Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities in geosciences. Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) represent one of the fastest growing demographics in the U.S. today and yet lag in participation and representation in geoscience graduate programs compared to other STEM fields. Thus, our program aims to recruit AAPI STEM undergraduates to geoscience graduate programs and enhance belonging of AAPI geoscientists as a whole. This project will expose undergraduates from MSIs (Minority Serving Institutions) in geoscience-adjacent STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) fields to geoscience research and careers, provide a new research internship opportunity and create national cross-career stage connections between AAPI geoscientists. Our ultimate goal is to produce a cohort of geoscience leaders from a group often left out of diversity discussions. Our project’s components include: 1) A researcher visit program to recruit undergraduate AAPI into geosciences via visits to AAPI-serving MSIs from geoscience researchers. 2) A research internship program to carry out research with AAPI mentors. 3) Organizing virtual and in-person events and a career development workshop to enhance belonging, identity, and leadership within the AAPI geoscience community across career stages and sectors in collaboration with the Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in Geosciences (AAPIiG) affinity group. This work is funded by an NSF ICER GEO (Grant No. 2136141, 2136151, 2136193, 2136238, 2136233, 2136227, 2136189, 2136143) “EAGER: Collaborative Research: Enhancing Asian American and Pacific Islander Participation and Belonging in the Geosciences”. You can learn more here and the principal investigators and our collaborators on our people page. Additionally, the following press releases about our project from the organizing institutions can be found here: Brown University, University of Hawai’i at Manoa, Penn State, University of California Merced, and Princeton University. Original materials prepared by Mae Jackson, Brown University. Subsidiary Sidebar Categories No categories Search Search for: Proudly powered by WordPress · Theme Toivo Lite by Foxland