About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan Academics Overview Majors & Minors Research Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad Additional Resources Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Get Involved Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Libraries Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Library & Museum Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Virtual Tour Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Apply Give Virtual Tour ☰ About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan A nationally ranked private university with seven degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU's 11,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics Overview Majors & Minors Research Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad Additional Resources SMU fuses teaching and research into breakthrough academic experiences. Students and faculty conduct research in the sciences, engineering and education on topics such as dark matter, climate change, water quality, cyber security, immigration, and treatments for cancer and other diseases. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 16 nationally competitive sports programs and more than 30 individual and team intramural activities. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Campus Life News Get Involved Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Libraries Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Library & Museum Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign SMU is one of only nine universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. SMU Mustangs are social and spirited! Check out what’s going on with students, faculty and our beautiful campus on the SMU Social Stream. Share, follow or join in the discussion. Apply Connect Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Engaged Learning Athletics Employment at SMU SMU Bookstore Campus Health and Safety Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275