Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Add research interest Add research interest Research interests are very powerful for your site. Once created, you can tag them to faculty, students and news articles. On each research interest page users can see a clear snapshot of everything happening in your department; all associated faculty, students, publications and news related to the research interest. This is a very powerful marketing tool for prospective graduate students when making their decision where to apply. NOTE: ACADEMIC MODEL only Select Research Interest from the Add Content menu. Enter in the title of the interest. IMPORTANT: The title is the name for the research interest. Whatever is entered here will be how the research interest is displayed on the site and the nomenclature for the tags you can choose when entering news, and profiles. Enter the summary for the research interest The summary appears on the list of research interests as well as on the individual research interest page. Create content for the page as you would any landing page. See instructions for creating a landing page. Select if you want to display affiliated faculty, graduate students and news articles on the page. By default, these options are all selected to display on the page. Uncheck any option you do not want to show on the research interest page. Set the priority for the research group. This refers to the order the research interest is listed on the research listing page. If you never change this dropdown, all interests will be listed alphabetically. Setting the priority allows you to specify the order. The priority number and listing position are inversely related; the lower the priority number, the higher on the listing it appears. The higher the priority number, the lower on the listing it appears. Changing the "Research Interest" label There will be websites that want to take advantage of Research Interests but call it by another name. You can change the label in Site Settings: Go to Site Settings and click Labels & Categorization Change the Research Label Field to what the new label should be In this example, the label now reads "Practice Area" Pages effected Profile landing page Individual profile page Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close