Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features Events Importing events from the public University calendar Importing events from the public University calendar You can import events available on the Columbia Events Calendar into your site. Determine the JSON URL Go to the Columbia University Events Calendar. Columbia University Events Calendar Use the filters on the right side of the page to find the subset of events you want to import. Filters on the Columbia University Events Calendar Once you have the proper filters in place, click Export Options. Filters selected on the Columbia University Events Calendar On the popup, select JSON for the Data Format. The Export URL will update accordingly. Copy the Export URL. Import events Once you have the JSON feed you are ready to import your event calendar into your site. On your Columbia Sites website click Site Settings Click the Content tab. Paste the copied URL into the Events API URL field. Click Import Events. Click Save Configuration. Editing events Additional event information not included in the Bedework feed can be added to individual events. IMPORTANT: Information coming from the Bedework feed - time, location, date, etc.. - cannot be edited. Navigate to the individual event page in which to add content. Click the Edit tab for the event. Add in Featured Content and Content as needed. IMPORTANT: Do not edit anything else on this page. Bedework will overwrite any other edits made with the feed. Event listing on webpage before custom information added Event listing on webpage after custom text and image have been added Bedework helpful links University Events Calendar About Bedework Bedework training materials Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close