Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features Create a sidebar Create a sidebar Sidebars are used for information users typically always want, but is unrelated to the current page. For example, sidebars may contain Contact Us information, hours of availability, most popular pages on the site, etc... Once you create a sidebar you can use it any number of times on webpages. There are two ways to create sidebars: Create sidebars directly in the page you are creating Create sidebars ahead of time for later use Create sidebars at the same time as creating a Basic or Service page While creating a Basic or Service Page, go to the bottom of the page and click Add New Sidebar Enter the sidebar title, [optional] email address and [optional] phone number The title is only to select the sidebar in the future when adding it to a page. It does not appear anywhere on the webpage. Use the three buttons on the bottom to build out the content for the sidebar You MUST click Create Sidebar to add the sidebar to the page IMPORTANT: Simply clicking the SAVE/Publish button will not add the sidebar to the page. You must click the Create Sidebar button. Once the sidebar is created, you can add it to other pages as well. Adding previously created sidebars Go to the bottom of a Basic or Service page and click Add existing sidebar Enter the title of the sidebar to add to the page. Click Add Sidebar IMPORTANT: Simply clicking the SAVE/Publish button will not add the sidebar to the page. You must click the Create Sidebar button. Create Sidebar for later use Click the Add Content navigation link. Select Sidebar content Enter the sidebar title, [optional] email address and [optional] phone number. Build out the sidebar like any other page using the options available. More information about using: Single images Links with label Video Text with label Columbia University events feed RSS event feed Click Save and Publish This sidebar will be available to you whenever you want to add it to a page. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close