Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Decision Tree Decision Tree **Available on the Administrative model. The Decision Tree module allows users to view information depending how they answered a set of questions. Additionally, each question in the decision tree can lead to different questions depending on the response of the previous question ultimately exposing very specific information relevant to how users answered the questions. See an example From the Add Content menu select Decision Tree Enter Title You can optionally enter in a description. If entered, it only displays on the first question. Once the user answers the first question the description is hidden. (The title remains visible for the entire set of questions in the Decision Tree.) Enter in the branch title The branch title becomes the question for the user to answer Optional: enter in the branch text. This renders as descriptive text for the branch title Enter the answers to the question entered in step 2 Each answer renders as a button. For each answer, click Confirm new branch to get another slot to enter another answer. Use the arrows on the right to order the buttons. Create the next branch for each answer Click the answer button for which you want to create a follow up question Repeat steps 3-4 above to create the new set of question / answers IMPORTANT: You can easily access the branch to which you want to create another set of question / answers by clicking on the branch. This activates that branch for you to add another set of questions / answers. NOTE: in this example, the decision tree for this branch is done; no Starbucks is allowed today. So, no branches need to be added since there are no more answers to create. Add Existing Branch Imagine a branch (which can be a bunch of question and answers) has been created already in the Decision Tree and you want to "repeat" this entire branch in another position in the Decision Tree. Branches previously created branches can be referenced and used any place in the tree. Using the example from above, add another branch Click Add Existing Branch to link to another branch previously created Start typing into the field "Enter button title for existing branch here" Once you type into this field a dropdown of all previously created branches will become visible. Select an existing branch from the dropdown Now everything set for the existing branch will live in this position of the tree. NOTE: The IDs in the dropdown mirror the IDs in the Decision Tree Branches at the bottom of the page for convenience. (212) 853-0761 [email protected] Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close