Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Uploading and Cropping Images Uploading and Cropping Images There are several types of image treatments for your site: Image Carousels Inline images Single images Featured content image Whichever treatment you need, the steps for uploading, selecting and cropping images for the page are identical. Uploading and selecting images Insert an image type The process is the same for all types of images: Image carousels Inline images Single images Featured content single image Click Open file browser. Click Upload. NOTE: If the image of interest has already been uploaded, just select it by double clicking on the image title Browse to the image(s) you want to upload and click Add file. NOTE: You can upload multiple images at once. Select the newly uploaded image by double clicking its title Enter Alternative image text This is important for accessibility because screen readers will read this text for users who cannot see the image properly. Enter the Image Link to hyperlink the image to another page. Cropping images Once an image is selected for a page it appears in the Show Area space with a blue border. Drag the blue dots to alter which part of the image displays. NOTE: You can always change the cropping as necessary; the image is not permanently cropped. Deleting Images To delete images, select the image in the File Browser and click Delete. You can delete multiple files at once by holding down either (1) SHIFT to select a series of files, or (2) CTRL to select one at a time. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close