Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Research Project Research Project From the Add Content menu select Research Project Enter Title and select if the research project appears on the homepage. When the checkbox Show on homepage is checked, this project title automatically appears on the homepage. Enter Summary and select if summary displays on the homepage Entering a summary is optional. Checking Display summary on page checkbox displays the summary underneath the title on the homepage. NOTE: By default this checkbox is checked. The summary only displays on the homepage if the title is also set to display on the homepage in the previous step. Enter featured content and all other content for the research project. If necessary, select a listing priority By default, research projects are listed in the order entered, with the most recently entered listed on top. If you want to override this behavior use this dropdown. Selecting a larger number sends the listing lower; selecting a smaller number sends the listing higher. For example, if you want this research project to be listed first set the listing priority to -1 with all others still set at 0. Enter sponsor information Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close