Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Profiles Display directories, academic site - Faculty Display directories, academic site - Faculty You are able to enable the directory page to list all the profiles entered. You can also create a Landing Page a list of pre-filtered directory tiles. Enable Directory page to display Once you create profiles, you can enable the directory page to display a listing of the profiles created. Go to the menu settings Check the box for Directory to enable the link That's it! Now there will be a Directory link on your site navigation listing all profiles entered. Create a pre-filtered directory From the Landing Page content entry, select Add Views Display From the Views Field dropdown, select the view in which you are interested. There are four different views for cu_staff_directory: Staff directory with images: displays the profiles with their images and appropriate filters intact. Staff directory with images, no filters: displays the profiles with their images without any filters displaying. Staff directory no images: displays the profiles without their images and appropriate filters intact. Staff directory no images, no filters: displays the profiles without their images without any filters displaying. In another window, go to the complete directory listing. Tip: create a page listing all profiles to easily grab the Argument values. Filter the listing to the subset of profiles you want on the webpage. In the following example, the list is filtered to "International Students and Scholars Office" and "Student Services Morningside". Copy the arguments generated next to the filters, in this case "#/directory/term/22,39" Go back to the original service Landing Page you are creating Paste the arguements into the Arguments field NOTE: in this example, the pasted arguments is: #/directory/term/22,39 Profile Filters In Action Staff directory with images Staff directory with images, without filters Directory without images Directory without images and without filters Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close