Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Create document library Create document library The document library allows your website to have one place where all documents can be listed and sorted by filters you create. IMPORTANT: The documents that make up the library are entered from the Add Content section of your site; documents added within a single page does not become part of the document library. How to display the Document Library From the Add Content menu, choose Document Enter Title, Last Updated Date, and select Featured Document if applicable. The Title and Last Updated Date appear on the Document Library listing page. Upload or browse to a previously updated document. To include a previously uploaded or new document in the library click Open File Browser and upload it or select it. How to use the File browser for documents If you are uploading a document for the first time click the Choose Files button to select it from your drive. Select Document Categories and Topics for the document. Both Document Categories and Topics are created in the Taxonomy section of administering the site. See creating taxonomies for an administrative site. Once Document Categories and Topics have been assigned to a document, they become filters displayed on the right of the screen for users to filter to the document. NOTE: Document Categories and Topics only appear if they are used for a document in the library. I.e. if no documents use Topics filters, this filter will not display on the right. Add a summary for the document. The summary appears on the Document Library listing page. Add any content for the document. Use this to add any explanation needed. NOTE: This content does not display on the Document Library listing page. Content created here, automatically links the document title in the Document Library to the document's own page where this content is visible. Displaying the Document Library Once documents are entered, there are several options for how to display the library. Options for display are available on the Landing Page Views Display: Using these options the library page can be created as a simple listing of documents or a listing of documents with pre-created filters set tot he right margin of the page. Options for listing documents in the main section of the page List of Documents, Reverse Chron This option displays the documents in reverse chronological order, using the Last Updated Date. List of Documents, Reverse Chron, Sub Filter Pills This option displays the documents in reverse chronological order, using the Last Updated Date. In this option, subfilters defined are also displayed: Options for displaying the filters on the right margin of the document listing Top Level Filters This option only displays the top level filters even if subfilters have been defined: Top Level and Sub Filters This option displays the top level filters and all subfilters created: Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close