Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features Site Settings Site Settings Use Site Settings to: Populate the site header and footer Set labels for various filters on the site Create utility and footer navigation To access Site Settings go to Shortcuts > Sites Settings. Expand all Collapse all Populate header and footer There are 3 tabs that control the header and footer information: Contact Locations Social Media Contact Tab Use this tab to enter either your Organization Name or Site Logo. Organization Name or Site Logo populates the header Email address, Phone number, and Internal site URL populates the footer. NOTE: An uploaded site logo will override your Organization Name and display instead of the Organization Name. Enter the fields on this tab that apply to your organization: Social Media Tab Information added here populates your footer. Locations Tab Information added here populates your footer. NOTE: Up to three different locations can be displayed on the footer. Set labels for various filters on the site Labels by which users filter your listings can be revised to reflect your organization. This applies to listings for: Profile Directory Services Directory Video Library For example, lets say OrganizationA needs to filter their Profile directory by: Industry Focus OrganizationB needs to filter their Profile directory by: Services Department This can be easily accomplished by changing the labels for each filter. Labels Tab In Site Settings click the Labels tab and revise the accordingly. The labels on the filters display however you just revised them: Create utility and footer navigation Utility Navigation The utility navigation refers to links on the top right of the site. To create utility links, in Site Settings click on the Menus tab and click the UTILITY NAV label and enter up to three relative URL paths and their corresponding link text. Using the above as an example: Enter Our Team in the Title field Find the relative URL and type it into the Link field: The complete URL to the corresponding web page is: https://sites.columbia.edu/content/team The relative URL to this page is everything after the main URL, which in this case is /content/team Footer Navigation IMPORTANT: CU Sites mirrors the main navigation in the footer. If this is the intended behavior do not edit anything; the mirroring is automatic. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close