Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Menu Create your menu Create your menu Your site menu, i.e.site navigation, can be created ahead of time or at the same time you create pages. Create a menu link its page at the same time Start creating a page. On the right side of the screen there is a section MENU SETTINGS. NOTE: The right pane is a much lighter color than the rest of the page. When you roll over it the color will normalize to the rest of the page and you can access the settings. Expand MENU SETTINGS. Check Provide a menu link to show the corresponding fields. Enter the Menu link title. This will be the text that appears in the navigation. Select the Parent item in the dropdown. For a link to be on the top level of the navigation, keep the dropdown set to <Main navigation>. For a link to display underneath the top level navigation, choose which top navigation link it will live under. It will display when users rollover to top navigation link. Create a menu link to a previously created page Click Shortcuts on the global administrative menu and then click Menu. Click the Add link button Enter the Menu title link. This will be the text the displays on the menu. Enter the Link. This is the URL users will go to when they click the navigation link. There are 2 ways to find the URL for an internal page: Start typing in the page title and the system populate a list of titles that match from which you can select. Navigate to the page you want to link to and copy the URL and paste here. See instructions for linking internally. By default, the Enabled checkbox is checked. The menu link created will be visible. If you uncheck Enabled, the navigation link will not display for users. If you disable a parent link, its children will be promoted up the navigation tree. Setting a menu link as just a label Sometimes it is useful to have a parent link - a menu link with nested menu links - simply act as a label and not go to any page if clicked, especially if your site does not have enough content to warrant a separate page of each menu item. In the following example the menu can be set so that no page displays when the user clicks User Guide or Content Editor or Features. NOTE: Be consistent with your treatment of parent links. Either make all or none act as labels. Click on Menu Click the Add Link button Enter the Menu link title, Link and click Save For the Link field enter # Done! This link now is in your menu and will not go to a separate page when clicked. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close