Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Content Blocks Add image cards Add image cards Image Cards allow you to add highlight boxes featuring an image with a link IMPORTANT: Image Cards can only be created for Landing Pages When creating Landing Page, click Add Page Section. Set the grid width for the overall set of cards Whatever you set here determines the total amount of screen width for the entire group of cards. See grid widths. Select Add Image Card Settings for the overall card group [Optional] Enter a label for the card group. This will appear centered on the group of Image Cards in blue large font. Select a Card width. Remember, you already selected a Grid Width for the Page Section. The Card width will be applied living within the Page Section width you specified earlier. The Card Width specified is applied to all cards within the Card Group You cannot specify different card widths within the same Card Group [Optional] Enter text for the card group. This will appear centered under the label for the group of Image Cards. It will render in smaller black font. Select how individual image cards display corresponding text entered Display Options set apply to all cards within the Card Group You cannot specify different Display Options within the same Card Group Click Add Image Card to start entering individual cards. Settings for individual cards Click Choose File to browse to the image for the image card. You will also need to enter ALT text once the image is selected. NOTE: images will automatically be sized to fit the specific width chosen [Optional] Enter the Title for the card. Titles appear centered on the individual card. [Optional] Enter a link for the card. This will create a link for the title entered. [Optional] Enter text to appear on the card. This will appear under the title (if entered) and centered on the card. Click Add Image Card to add additional cards. Determining pixel width and height for images If your images on the image cards do not have enough pixels in them, they will render as pixellated. So, how do you calculate how many pixels wide each image should be to avoid graininess? The full pixel width of the desktop screen is set to 1170px. What this means to you: If your image card spans the entire screen, the image must be at least 1170 px wide If your image card spans half the screen, the image must be at least 585 px wide (1170 px / 2) If your image card spans one third of the screen, the image must be at least 390 px wide (1170 px / 3) Etc... Troubleshooting cards that do not align After viewing the published page you may notice that some of the images on your cards to not align within the group. This may or may not have been intended. If this is not intended, don't worry. This is easily fixed! If you want all the image cards to be the same size and shape, they must all be created in the same width and height pixel ratio. In the example above, the first three cards have identical pixel ratios and the last card was created using a different ratio. Thus, they layout differently. To fix this, you must re-create the images, in this example only the last card needs to be re-created, all to the same width/height ratios. Expand all Collapse all Instructions for sizing images to identical ratios NOTES: There are many methods for creating images to the same ratios. Any method may be used. For this method, Adobe Photoshop is required. You must have all your images handy. First, decide on a ratio all cards will use: Using Photoshop, size the first image (the "template") to the proportions you want for your image cards. Remember: the ratio itself does not matter. It is only important that all ratios for each image on the cards are identical. Save the template as a .jpg and place into an image card on your webpage. Keep resizing it in Photoshop until you are happy with the display on your webpage. This image's ratio serves as the template against which all the other images are set. Keep this file open. You will need it in the next steps. Open the other images and scale them appropriately: In Photoshop, open the next image as a new file. This is done by selecting File > New. Copy the entire image and paste it into the original template photoshop file. This creates a new layer. Scale the image on it's separate layer as needed Scaling images is accessed under Edit > Transform > Scale Using the Move Tool, move the image layer so it is placed appropriately. Repeat this for all the images for your cards. Save all layers as separate images: Photoshop comes with an Export Layers to Files script, saving the separate layers as individual image files: Run this script by selecting File > Scripts > Export Layers to Files All your images are now the same ratio and will align perfectly for the image cards! Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close