Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home Release Notes Columbia Sites 1.0 Release Notes Columbia Sites 1.0 March 01, 2016 New Stuff The Columbia Sites customized Drupal 8 platform is now live. The initial release of this website-in-a-box is the Research model, which is optimized for the content typical of labs and research centers and institutes. Automatically import events from the University Events Calendar (Bedework). The News Article content type allows you to create stories that are searchable and shareable and can be automatically aggregated on other pages. Add longitude and longitude and the Map Location content type embeds a Google Map in your site. People Profiles can be sorted by groups that you specify or by title. Enter all your Research Publications, and sort them by title, author, volume, issue, month, or year published. Customize the header with your logo and main navigation; add your location(s), social media accounts, and intranet login to the footer. Acknowledge former members of your lab with the Alumni Profile. Aggregate the work of your lab by creating a unique page for each Research Project, allowing you to associate related lab members, publications, and news stories. Build a library of all your images with the Gallery content type. Use Views Display to enter your content once and populate it any number of times across your entire site without having to re-enter the content. And it comes with these free services Hosting Quarterly patching and upgrades Immediate patching of critical vulnerabilities Protected pages behind UNI log in Logo and branding services User guide Trainings and workshops: How to Use Columbia Sites, Google Analytics, Content Strategy and Search Engine Optimization, Columbia Sites Accessibility, User Experience Basics, Social Media Strategy Pre-launch site review and accessibility audit Five hours of site-building support post launch Bug Zapper No bugs sighted yet, but we’re watching. If you experience Weirdness, email us. Tags Release Notes News July 23, 2020 Columbia Sites 1.84 October 15, 2019 Columbia Sites 1.83 April 01, 2019 Columbia Sites 1.82 September 24, 2018 Columbia Sites 1.81 September 07, 2018 Columbia Sites 1.80 Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close