Biological Structure HOME DEPARTMENT Message from the Chair Spotlight News Events Calendar Seminar Series Administration Intranet Contact PEOPLE Faculty Profiles Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Emeritus Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Staff EDUCATION AND TRAINING Biological Structure Teaching Graduate Programs EQUITY & INCLUSION DEI Committee EI Events Incident Reporting DEI Resources RESEARCH Developmental Neuroscience Systems Neuroscience RESOURCES Training Grant Infornation Trainees Willed Body Program Research Programs UW Graphics UW Information Technology UW Libraries International Services UW Emergency operations Search Creative and Pioneering Research MORE EDUCATION AND TRAINING READ MORE EQUITY AND INCLUSION READ MORE Be Boundless at the University of Washington UW ABOUT US Biological Structure has a long history of applying cutting edge methods to advance understanding of the structure, function and development of complex cellular systems. Today our department is home to an exciting group of scientists who use molecular, cellular and systems-level tools to explore biological systems from development to behavior. We use molecular techniques to study cell death and regeneration, advanced imaging methods to obtain the structure of molecules and reconstruct entire neural circuits, and physiological tools to functionally image or record the activity of hundreds to thousands of neurons simultaneously. Major areas of research interest include, regeneration of sensory cells, assembly and repair of neural circuits, neural processing in the visual system, and brain-wide processes related to sensation, cognition, aggression and addiction. In addition to graduate teaching, the Biological Structure faculty include award-winning educators who provide instruction in Neuroscience and Gross Anatomy to the talented and diverse students of the School of Medicine. We welcome you to explore our vibrant community of scholars, experimentalists, skilled technicians, diverse graduate students and postdoctoral trainees from around the world. OUR MISSION The Department of Biological Structure is dedicated to exploration and education in a collegial environment that embraces diversity and inclusiveness. Our mission is to train the next generation of leaders in both the health and basic sciences and to pursue fundamental research challenges that will advance understanding of our human biology, from molecules to mind. The Department of Biological Structure acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of the land on which we work and learn, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations, including the Duwamish Tribe. We honor with gratitude the land itself and the people of the land, past and present. The Department of Biological Structure values equity and inclusion and strives to be welcoming and accessible to all. Our goal is to create and maintain an environment that recognizes and celebrates the diverse backgrounds of our employees and trainees. We recognize that overturning long-standing systemic barriers requires openness, continuous effort, and commitment to change. As a department, we will actively correct policies and practices that discriminate against and/or cause harm to minorities and marginalized groups. We recognize that oppressive policies create barriers that prevent the entry, participation, and full potential of our department, and this hinders the advancement of science. By providing resources to members of the department, we hope to empower them and support their progression through their scientific career. We are committed to engaging with the voices of our department to promote equity and compassion and respect for all. For more information regarding the department’s equity and inclusion efforts, please visit the Equity and Inclusion page on this website. UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON COVID-19 UPDATES MORE DEPARTMENT NEWS SEE ALL NEWS Developmental Neurobiologist named to National Academy of Sciences Dr. Rachel Wong, one of the world's leading experts in developmental neurobiology, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences. READ MORE OUR RESEARCH READ MORE LATEST NEWS Announcement Dr. Rachel Wong is the recipient of the 2022 Friedenwald Award from the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (ARVO). This achievement award honors outstanding research in the basic or clinical sciences as applied to ophthalmology. The 2022 ARVO Achievement Read more Grant Award Dr. Nick Steinmetz and his lab have been honored with the CAREER Award, which is the “most prestigious award in support of early-career faculty” from the National Science Foundation. The five-year award, titled “Distributed spatial neural dynamics”, is for approximately Read more Grant Award Dr Levi Todd received a new NIH/K99 award. This work will investigate how the neuroimmune response to retinal degeneration impacts the ability for retinal repair. This project seeks to identify strategies to enhance retinal regeneration by modulating the immune system. Read more Announcement Dr. Olivia Bermingham-McDonogh received a 2021 Laboratory Safety Award (EH&S’s biannual 2021 Laboratory Safety Awards & Innovations Event). This award is given to those labs that develop innovations designed to improve the culture of safety in laboratory spaces. Read more Announcement We are very excited to announce that Professor Michele Basso, Ph.D. and her lab have joined the Department of Biological Structure. Michele has a joint appointment in Physiology and Biophysics and is the new Director of the Washington National Read more Announcement Dr. David Raible has been appointed Virginia Merrill Bloedel Chair in Basic Hearing Science, and Professor in the Department of Otolaryngology-HNS, beginning July 1, 2021. He will continue to have a joint appointment in Biological Structure. Read more UPCOMING EVENTS EVENTS CALENDAR  UW Biological Structure @BioStructureUW  FOLLOW US > UPCOMING SEMINAR SERIES READ MORE EQUITY AND INCLUSION University of Washington UW News Accessibility Contact Campus Safety Campus Maps Privacy Policy UW Medicine About UW Medicine UW Medicine Newsroom Willed Body Program UW Medicine Research Message from the Chair Spotlight Contact Department Equity & Inclusion Administration Education and Training Research Intranet Gift Support Department of Biological Structure University of Washington 1959 NE Pacific Street Box 357420 Seattle, Washington 98195 Phone: (206) 543-1861 FAX: (206) 543-1524 Copyright © 2020 The University of Washington Dept. of Biological Structure. All Rights Reserved Copyright © 2022 Biological Structure. Powered by WordPress. Theme: Ample by ThemeGrill. Back To Top Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website