Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features URL Aliases URL Aliases A URL alias allows for creating clean looking URLs for the pages of your site, instead of machine coded names. All Columbia Sites pages already have URL aliases created, revising them is largely unnecessary. When creating a page, the URL PATH SETTINGS is automatically checked to Generate automatic URL alias. So, lets say the page is titled "Snakes". Upon publishing the page, the alias will be /content/snakes. If the Generate automatic URL alias were unchecked, the URL would be a machine name like /node/638 When you should change an alias There are very few situations when you should override the alias to a different one. However, there are some one-offs when changing the Sites' alias may be useful. If you need an easy simple URL for people to remember, say /contact (instead of /content/contact) you can create an alias for the contact page. There are two ways to do this, both have identical results. Uncheck the Generate automatic URL alias box and add in your own alias In the example above, the alias for the page is now sitename/contact. NOTE: Sites' automatically generated alias for this page is sitename/content/contact Alternatively, you can change the alias by going to the URL aliases menu Click the add alias button. Enter in both the existing machine URL and the alias to which you want to assign. IMPORTANT: The Existing System Path field must be the machine name. To find this, go to the corresponding page, make sure the Generate automatic URL alias box is not checked (see above) and copy the URL path. Aliases and taxonomy terms When taxonomy terms are created, an alias is automatically generated. For instance, if Samples is entered as a taxonomy term, a URL is created /samples. If the user goes to sitename/samples they will see all content tagged to this URL. Aliases, taxonomy terms and redirects, Oh My! Manually editing aliases can have some unintended results. Consider the following example: If you change the alias of the Documents library from /documents to /content/documents: the original alias at /documents is removed a Redirect is automatically created (redirect: /documents -> /content/documents) Now, if a taxonomy term Documents is created (creating an alias at /documents), it will remove the redirect with that same pattern (in this case redirect: /documents -> /content/documents). URL sitename/documents will go to the taxonomy term listing all content tagged with the term. It does not go to the intended document library. (212) 853-0761 [email protected] Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close