Skip to content Advanced features of this website require that you enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Ecology, Evolution, Environment and Society Graduate Program at Dartmouth Primary Menu Menu Search for: Home Anti-racism & equity People Faculty Graduate Students Post-Docs and Scholars EEES Alumni Staff For Prospective Students Application Information Research Areas For Current Members Links, forms and resources EEES Program Guidelines EEES Bylaws Committees EEES Lunch History Curriculum Coursework Degree Tracks Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB) Sustainability, Ecosystems, and Environment Track (SEE) EEES Publications News Grad student blog Kudos EEES Scholars Program Search for: Welcome to EEES! Statement from the EEES community on anti-racism Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society (EEES) is a new vision for scholarship, education, and service in the Anthropocene. We are a diverse community that includes faculty, graduate students, and postdoctoral scholars from the departments of Biological Sciences, Environmental Studies, Anthropology, and Geography. The overlapping spheres of scholarship include Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Ecosystems and Earth Systems, and Environment and Society. Graduate research emphasizes the development of general theory and new technical knowledge regarding the nature of nature, and also includes the application of theory and knowledge to the benefit of humans and our environment. Our success is illustrated by the professional outcomes of graduates from our program. For prospective students: The EEES program experience emphasizes research but also includes a curriculum that is customized for individual students, a weekly colloquium where students gain skills in presenting research and giving critical input on the research of others, and a weekly journal club where students develop professional skills and gain exposure to relevant scientific literature. Students also have the opportunity to polish their mastery of foundational material, and gain skills as educators, by working closely with faculty as Teaching Assistants in undergraduate courses in their subject area. Students enter our program with the support and sponsorship of a faculty member who would be their major advisor. We encourage prospective applicants to browse the EEES faculty and communicate directly with one or more individual faculty members who share your interests and are prospective advisors. We typically review applications in the first half of December for the cohort of new Ph.D. students that will begin the following fall. Footer Content Login Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS Sites at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback