Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Forms View Submissions View Submissions There are two ways to viewing submissions: They can be viewed all together at any time or download as needed In addition to viewing them all together, individual submissions can be sent to specified email addresses as soon as they are submitted FOR SECURITY The CAPTCHA element MUST be added to every form on your site. View all submissions Go to Shortcuts > Forms Find the title of the form in which you are interested Select how to view submissions Send submissions to email address Go to Shortcuts > Forms Find the form of interest and click Edit Click Email / Handlers This view is a listing of all email handlers created by the title entered upon creation. Click +Add Email Add a title for the email handler you are creating The title appears on the Email / Handlers tab listing. Enter the SEND TO dropdowns Just like typical email clients, people can be sent directly, Cc'd or Bcc'd an email. Select Custom to email address... to enter any email(s) of your choice. The Default email is the contact person for your Columbia Site. Select the relevant field under Elements if the email should be sent to the value submitted in that field. NOTE: only use this option for Email form elements Enter the SEND FROM dropdowns Enter the From email to display on the received email Select Custom to email address... to enter any email(s) of your choice. The Default email is the contact person for your Columbia Site. Select the relevant field under Elements if the email should be sent to the value submitted in that field. NOTE: only use this option for Email form elements [Optional] Enter the From name to display on the received email Select Custom from name to enter any name of your choice. The Default is your site name. Select the relevant field under Elements if applicable Enter the text for the Message to be sent in the email Enter the Subject to display on the received email Select Custom to enter any subject you choose. The Default is ?????. Select the relevant field under Elements if applicable Enter the Body to display on the received email Select Custom to enter any body you choose. The Default is the email text seen in the textfield. IMPORTANT: do not change anything in this textfield. If you want to change anything, select Custom. Select the relevant field under Elements if applicable Select any email values to be included Select any values from your form to be included in the email submission. Settings Do not touch this! Keep it set to Send email as HTML. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close