Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Content Blocks Add an icon card Add an icon card Icon Cards allow you to add highlight boxes featuring an optional icon and a link. IMPORTANT: Icon Cards can only be created for Landing Pages NOTE: Icon Cards do not accommodate an image. When creating a Landing Page, click Add Page Section. Set the grid width for the overall set of cards Whatever you set here determines the total amount of screen width for the entire group of cards. See grid widths. Select Add Icon Card. Settings for the overall card group [Optional] Enter a label for the card group. This will appear centered on the group of Icon Cards in blue large font. Select a Card width. Remember, you already selected a Grid Width for the Page Section. The Card width will be applied living within the Page Section width you specified earlier. The Card Width specified is applied to all cards within the Card Group You cannot specify different card widths within the same Card Group [Optional] Enter text for the card group. This will appear centered under the label for the group of Icon Cards. It will render in smaller black font. Click Add Icon Card to start entering individual cards. Settings for individual cards [Optional] You can add an icon to your icon card. Click into the Icon box to see the available icons you can choose for your icon card. [Optional] Enter the Title for the card. Titles appear centered on the individual card. [Optional] Enter a link for the card. This will create a link for the title entered. [Optional] Enter text to appear on the card. This will appear under the title (if entered) and centered on the card. Click Add Icon Card to add additional cards. Creating buttons using Icon Cards Leave the Icon field blank Enter a title for the button The title will be displayed centered in the button. Enter a link for the button When a user clicks on the button, it will direct the user to this link. IMPORTANT: You must enter a link for the title entered above to render as a button. If you do not enter a link, you will only see text and not a button. Leave the Text field blank Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close