Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Profiles Create a person profile, Administrative Site Create a person profile, Administrative Site This template is used to create a People section of a site. Individual profiles automatically create a People landing page on the site where all the profile images and names can be seen and individual profiles accessed. Features Optional personal statement displays on top of page Categorize profiles into subcategories Upload CV for users to view Automatically formats contact information, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Youtube links IMPORTANT: Set the profile taxonomy terms before creating profiles. From the top navigation menu, click on Shortcuts > Add Content. From the Add Content menu, choose Person Profile. Enter a UNI and click Fetch from Directory to have the Columbia Directory find the profile information. Click Populate Fields to have the information automatically fill in the fields on this page Alternatively, you can click the Continue without Directory Lookup link to enter all fields manually. Click populate fields to automatically fill out many fields in the profile Enter or edit name information. NOTE: Displayed name is the name that appears on the page. First name and Last name are only used on the backend for sorting. Select Department, Group and Function for the profile entered. This will categorize the profile accordingly on the landing page and will also appear on their individual profile page. Enter the personal statement, which displays in larger text on the profile page OPTIONAL: add an outbound URL for the profile If an outbound URL is entered, the link from the directory goes directly to that outbound link instead of going to an internal page with profile information. If an outbound URL is entered, the link from the directory goes directly to that outbound link instead of going to an internal page with profile information. NOTE: if an outbound URL is entered, the rest of the fields on the page become inactive. Build out your page. Enter your profile picture and all relevant fields. Image specifications: 560 x 690 px, at 72 dpi Instructions for uploading and cropping images NOTE: if no image is uploaded, a gender-neutral avatar automatically displays Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close