Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Features UNI Protected Pages UNI Protected Pages Your site can have individual pages UNI protected; users will need to log in with their UNI in order to view the content. If multiple pages are UNI protected, users will only need to authenticate once to access all pages. IMPORTANT: Uploaded files are not protected on these pages; any person using the direct URLs can access the files. Files will also be displayed in a browser search. To exclude them from displaying in a search, add them into the private folder Check the "Require login to view this content" box on the bottom of pages requiring log in access Important: All files must be uploaded to the private folder To prevent public access to any files on your UNI protected pages, you MUST upload them to the private folder when uploading. That's it! All users coming to this page must first log in with their UNI to see the content. Again, remember that files are not protected; anyone with the direct URL can access them. Files will also be displayed in a browser search. To protect from both scenarios, upload all files to the Private folder. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close