Skip to content The Srivastava Lab for Solid Mechanics and Biomechanics Menu Home Research People Lab Publications Scroll down to content The Srivastava Lab Back to top Welcome! Our research focus is continuum solid mechanics theories, models, and experiments for engineering structures, clean energy, and mechanobiology. Current research includes polymers and gels under extreme environments, electro-chemo-mechanical modeling of structural lithium-ion batteries, biomechanics of cell-ECM interactions, and the interface between machine learning and solid mechanics. Key Research Areas Stimuli-responsive Soft Materials Material Deformation and Failure Response Cell Mechanics Lab News November 2021 | A paper with Guduru lab as collaborators “A Technique for High-Speed Microscopic Imaging of Dynamic Failure Events and Its Application to Shear Band Initiation in Polycarbonate” is published in the Journal of Applied Mechanics September 2021 | Welcome new graduate students Aditya Konale, Hyun Young Nam, and Francesca Denise Abulencia in the Srivastava Lab. August 2021 | Dr. Srivastava is named Howard M. Reisman ’76, P’09 Chair Assistant Professor of Engineering. August 2021 | Dr. Srivastava and his Brown University collaborators Dr. Guduru and Dr. Bazilevs received their second Office of Naval Research grant. August 2021 | Our paper “A higher-order morphoelastic beam model for tubes and filaments subjected to biological growth” is published in the International Journal of Solids and Structures July 2021 | Office of Naval Research under Department of Defense awarded a 3 year research grant to Dr. Srivastava and his Brown University collaborators Dr. Guduru and Dr. Bazilevs. June 2021 | A Brown University news article on lab’s recent COVID-19 mathematical modeling paper: New model accounts for the effect of behavior changes to predict COVID-19 cases June 2021 | Our paper “A model and predictions for COVID-19 considering population behavior and vaccination” is published in Scientific Reports June 2021 | Our paper “A continuum model and simulations for large deformation of anisotropic fiber-matrix composites for cardiac tissue engineering” is published in the Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials February 2021 | Dr. Srivastava is awarded 2021 Brown OVPR Seed Award for research on hydrogel based cancer cell metastasis reduction. February 2021 | Congratulations Shailen for scoring 100% percentile in the MCAT! November 2020 | Congratulations Shailen Sampath for receiving the Barret Hazeltine Grant Award for ongoing research with shape memory materials. September 2020 | Dr. Srivastava is awarded his second 3 year federal research grant award from the U.S. Department of Transportation. September 2020 | Welcome new graduate students Andrea Lu, Anna Rusnak, Gavin Mays, Ge Zhu, and Shruti Trivedi in the Srivastava Lab. August 2020 | A news article on Dr. Srivastava’s infectious disease modeling class ENGN 2911R : Analytical Modeling of Biomechanical and Biomedical Systems July 2020 | Dr. Srivastava is awarded a new research grant award from the Rhode Island Commerce Corporation and Hitachi. June 2020 | Congratulations Luis Marquez ’20 for receiving Sc.M. from Brown’s School of Engineering! Luis’s quirkiness, work ethic, and rock climbing ability have left us with many happy memories. We will miss you and we wish you the best with your new job! June 2020 | Congratulations Savan Santoki ’20 for receiving Sc.M.! Savan’s meticulousness, passion, and curiosity is greatly appreciated and we wish you the best for your start-up endeavors! June 2020 | Congratulations Yifei Bai ’20 for receiving Sc.M. in Mechanics of Solids. You’re hard work and humor will be dearly missed and we wish you the best! April, 2020 | Congratulations to Shailen Sampath for submission of senior honors thesis March 2020 | Congratulations to William Back for receiving 2020 Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Research Award to conduct summer research in the Srivastava Research Lab. March 2020 | Congratulations to Roberto Castro for receiving 2020 Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Research Award to conduct summer research in the Srivastava Lab. October 2019 | Dr. Srivastava is awarded a 3- year federal research grant award from the U.S. Department of Transportation September 2019 | Our paper “A thermo-mechanically coupled finite strain model for phase-transitioning austenitic steels in ambient to cryogenic temperature range” is published in the Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids September 2019 | Congratulations to Shailen Sampath for being selected as a recipient for the Research @ Brown grant September 2019 | Welcome, Zahra! Zahra Ahmed will be joining our research group as a Ph.D. student; she has completed her B.S. and M.S. in Biomedical Engineering from Brown University June 2019 | Dr. Srivastava receives a research grant from Rhode Island State Commerce Corporation and Gliaview to study biopolymers June 2019 | Dr. Srivastava gave an invited seminar at Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University May 2019 | Congratulations to Srivastava Lab postdoc Dr. Mrityunjay Kothari for receiving the Outstanding Ph.D. Thesis Award from Brown University’s School of Engineering for his work with the Srivastava Research Lab March 2019 | Congratulations to Isaac Nathoo for receiving 2019 Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Research Award to conduct summer research in the Srivastava Lab March 2019 | Congratulations to Norbesida Bagabila for receiving 2019 Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Research Award to conduct summer research on hydrogel based drug delivery systems in the Srivastava Lab June 2019 | Dr. Srivastava gave invited talks at IIT Bombay and IIT Delhi. The Srivastava Lab for Solid Mechanics and Biomechanics School of Engineering, Brown University 184 Hope St., Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-2863 Office located in Barus & Holley of Engineering Research Center Website Design by Roberto Castro Twitter Instagram Facebook GMail Proudly powered by WordPress