Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Create publication Create publication Once a publication is entered, it can populate multiple pages on your site. When tagged appropriately, publications appear on the: Home Page Publication Landing Page Person Profile Page From the top navigation menu, click on Shortcuts > Add Content From the Add Content menu, choose Publication. Enter the title of the publication. Check the box if this should be a featured publication. If the publication is designated as featured, it will appear as such on the Publications page. Featured is also used for sorting on the Publications page. Enter the date of the publication. The date has 2 purposes: It is used for sorting the publications on the Publications page The publication with the most recent date entered will populate the Home Page Recent Pulication section Enter the title of the publication [Optional] Enter the volume and issue of the publication. [Optional] Enter the abstract for the publication. [Optional] Enter each author of the publication. Each author must be entered separately by clicking Add another item. [Optional] Enter in the corresponding UNI for each author. Each UNI must be entered separately by clicking Add another item IMPORTANT: Authors and corresponding UNI must be entered in the same order. For example, if two authors are entered and a UNI only exists for the second entry, you must create 2 UNI fields leaving the first empty or enter NONE NOTE: Should you need to re-order the author list remember to re-order the UNI listing so they correspond with each other correctly. [Optional] Select the associated Research Project for the publication. Click Add another item to link the publication to multiple research projects. This is used for sorting on the Publications page. IMPORTANT: The research project must have been previously entered. [Optional] Select the type of publication. The type is used for sorting the publications on the Publications page IMPORTANT: If there are no values set, you must first create the taxonomy [Optional] Browse to the PDF for the publication to upload. Enter the PubMed, Google Scholar, and Permanent URL links. Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close