Skip to content Main Menu BU Food Links About Us Search Baylor Free Food Events As one approach to addressing campus hunger at Baylor University, the Food Insecurity Working Group, working with Family of Faith Community Church, have developed two periodic events: First, The Baylor Free Farmers Market is a bi-annual event, combining food distribution with efforts to raise awareness about hunger, nutrition, wellness, and other related issues. Join us on Fountain Mall across the street from Moody Library! Second, The Baylor Mobile Food Pantry: a collaboration with 7th & James Baptist Church, Family of Faith Worship Center, and many Baylor offices and departments. This event bring a truck of free fresh fruits and veggies to Baylor students in the 7th & James parking lot once a month, usually the last Thursday of the month. Check back for more info on our Fall 2020 events! If you have an urgent food need, please visit The Store, Baylor’s food pantry, located in Sid Rich 047. Past Events: Fall 2019 Free Farmers Market is coming – THURSDAY NOVEMBER 7, 11-3:30pm! Bring your own bags; we will some boxes available as well! Over 1500 students received 40,000+ pounds of free food at our last BFFM! Our first Baylor Mobile Food Pantry was held on Thursday, March 2nd. We distributed about 15,000lbs of food to 500 students in less than three hours. Pics below: On Thursday November 3rd, 11am-3:30pm, we held the first Baylor Free Farmers’ Market. This event, held on Fountain Mall by Moody Library, featured: Free fresh fruits a veggies Free bags from the Baylor Bookstore Free yoga (11am & 2pm…though rained out) Free information about nutrition and meal planning This event was made possible by donations procured by Pastor Reuben Andrade and the Family of Faith Worship Center, who brought over 46,000 lbs of food (fruits, veggies, breads, water, and other foodstuffs). The support of the Baylor School of Education, Aramark, Baylor Wellness Department, Baylor Graduate School, Baylor Career and Professional Development Center, Baylor Office of Civic Engagement, Baylor Office of Student Life, and many others was essential for the success of this event – thank you!! Despite the rain, in all, nearly 1,500 students took home a total of over 40,000 lbs of food! Watch this website for announcements of 2017 BFFM dates! Press coverage of the event can be found here: Waco Tribune-Herald Twitter Baylor Lariat Sidebar Search Recent Posts Welcome! Recent Comments Archives September 2016 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS Sites @ Baylor University Footer Content Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Aaron by Carolina http://sites.baylor.edu/bufoodlinks/ Skip to toolbar Sites @ Baylor Network Home Help and Support The Edublogger Community Log In Search