Home About Us Faculty Staff LHS Scholars Pilot Awardees Partnerships Funding Opportunities Pilot Grants LHS Scholars Resources Archived Events Ethics Engagement Leadership Informatics Improvement & Implementation Science Research Questions & Standards Research Methods System Science Events Webinar Series Archived Events Workshops Institutes Podcast Health System Partners Partner Leadership Research Priorities Applied LeaRRning Subscribe Select Page LeaRRn News and Events 2022 Virtual Institute Register Now! Registration is open for the 2022 Virtual Institute! Click here to register, and see the full agenda. The institute will be held on June 21 and 23, 2022. MR3 Scientific Retreat: Register Now! The 2nd Annual MR3Network Scientific Retreat “Rehabilitation Clinical Trials: Innovations, Designs, and Tribulations” will be held on September 29-30, 2022. Click here to submit an abstract today! Applied LeaRRning Cases Available Now! Applied LeaRRning cases tell the story of how rehabilitation researchers have used Learning Health Systems (LHS) research competencies in real world settings. Click here to learn more. LeaRRn: Learning Health Systems Rehabilitation Research Network LeaRRn provides support for implementation science and learning health systems research in order to improve rehabilitation quality, value, and outcome.  Opportunities LHS Scholar Program Pairs rehabilitation researchers with health systems. Pilot Studies Program Funding for small research projects.  Resources Resources Access to a wide range of LHS resources.  Events A variety of innovative approaches to promote LHS research awareness and competency development. i Needs Assessment Identifying knowledge gaps to prioritize education and training opportunities. Join the LeaRRn mailing list Keep in touch with the latest developments in Learning Health System research. Subscribe What is a Learning Health System? A LHS systematically integrates evidence established with internal data and real world experience in order to provide high quality, safer, more efficient care. What does a LHS researcher do? A LHS researcher is an individual who is embedded within a health system and collaborates with its stakeholders to produce novel insights and evidence that can be rapidly implemented to improve the outcomes of individuals and populations and health system performance. The rehabilitation community welcomes LeaRRn! “Learning Health Systems Rehabilitation Research Network (LeaRRn) funded by NCMRR brings together Brown University, the University of Pittsburgh and Boston University as evidence that rehabilitation is an essential partner in the creation of learning health systems able to move practice toward value-based care and stakeholder centered outcomes. The pilot grants, visiting scholar program, and other resources will establish partnerships with healthcare systems and transform rehabilitation education, practice and science.” Kenneth J. Ottenbacher, PhD, OTR Professor & Director, Division of Rehabilitation Sciences University of Texas Medical Branch Director, Center for Large Data Research and Data Sharing in Rehabilitation “There has never been a more compelling moment for learning health systems in rehabilitation. This essential expectation of health care — that knowledge of prior patient outcomes must shape our treatment of future patients — is deceptively simple. Developments in electronic medical records, artificial intelligence, mobile technology and frameworks for collaboration, make this expectation achievable in rehabilitation. Boston University’s Sargent College is thrilled to be a partner in the LeaRRn collaboration, working with some of the nation’s most influential innovators and leading programs in this important effort.” Christopher A. Moore, PhD Dean, College of Health & Rehabilitation Sciences, Sargent College Professor, Department of Speech, Language & Hearing Sciences, Boston University “Learning health systems (LHS), a great health care research resource, are rarely focused on patients’ rehabilitation. The Learning Health Systems Rehabilitation Research Network (LeaRRn), a NIH funded collaborative effort of Brown University, the University of Pittsburgh and Boston University, is an innovative resource that will foster health systems research to improve the quality and value of rehabilitation patient care. I congratulate Dr. Resnik and her collaborators on a timely and important accomplishment and look forward to seeing the fruits of their labor.” Alan M. Jette, PT, PhD, MPH, FAPTA Professor, PhD in Rehabilitation Sciences, and Physical Therapy; MGH Institute of Health Professions “In the presence of the acute crisis of managing Covid-19, we must still consider the long-term needs, of victims of the pandemic, and people with disability and chronic conditions. Bringing together the best partners in health systems, quality and leadership with premier researchers to insure that we can scale evidence based rehabilitation interventions is how we can transform healthcare.” Pamela Duncan, PT, PhD, FAPTA, FAHA Professor, Neurology Wake Forest School of Medicine LeaRRn: Learning Health Systems Rehabilition Research Network Collaboration to improve rehabilitation quality, value and outcomes. Follow us on Twitter: Follow Like us on Facebook: Follow email: LeaRRnNetwork@gmail.com Affiliated Institutions LHS Innovation Hub Partners ACHA/NCAL BAYADA Boston Medical Center Cleveland Clinic Intermountain Health Johns Hopkins Medicine naviHealth UPMC This research center is supported by the National Institutes of Health under award number 1P2CHD101895-01 through the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and the National Institute of Nursing Research. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health. Join the LeaRRn Mailing List