Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Sites Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Services Models Clients Trainings and Workshops User Guide Release Notes Model Comparison Research Model Administration Model Academic Model Content Blocks Accordion Alert Columbia event feed Featured content Hero Image carousel Icon card Image Cards Carousel Image card Inline image Links with label MailChimp Integration Map location Numbered paragraph Page section Pull quote Related block RSS Feeds Single image Social Media SoundCloud Tabbed Content Table Text Text with label Timeline Video Views display Content Editor Adding anchors Documents Linking pages externally Linking pages internally Features Courses Description Tags Events Filtering by role Footer Header News RSS feed Redirect URLs Sidebar Taxonomies Pre-filtered Listings Site Settings UNI Protected Pages URL Aliases Menu Create your menu Reorganize the menu Utility navigation Footer navigation Pages Editing pages Basic page Bookshelf Deadlines Decision Tree Dissertations Document library Gallery Landing page Grid Widths News article Display news articles Post-graduate profile Profiles Publication Publishing and unpublishing Research interest Display all research interests Research project Services Display service listings Video Library Site administrators Add administrators Block Administrators Image Quick Reference Accessibility Editorial Guidelines Glossary Forms Create a form Adding fields Adding logic Multi-page forms Embedding forms View Submissions Content Moderation Getting Started and Assigning Roles Content Creator: Creating Content Content Manager: Approving pages and publishing Columbia Sites You are here: Home User Guide Pages Video Library Video Library A video library can be created for all CU Sites models. Once videos are tagged, users can use these tags to filter the videos. IMPORTANT: There are three separate categories for which tags can be set. Tagging is not necessary; however, if it is desired you must first create the taxonomy. NOTE: Once videos are added to the library, they can be pulled into a horizontal section on any Landing Page. Add the videos for your library NOTE: These videos will display in the library, they are not the same as adding contextual videos to a page. From the top navigation menu, click on Shortcuts > Add Content > Video Enter a title The title appears: On the main library landing page On the individual video detail page Upload an image thumbnail Whatever image is uploaded appears on the main library landing page. Enter a summary for the video The summary appears on the main library landing page. Enter the video embed code, caption and transcript NOTE: The embedded video appears on the individual video detail page, not the library landing page. How to find youtube embed code How to find vimeo embed code NOTE: YouTube recommends videos at the end of each video played. This can be very annoying if the videos are not related to your content. To disable recommended videos add ?rel=0 into the embed string. Example YouTube embed code, which will display recommended videos: <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/V07M1BygoQc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe> Example YouTube embed code, which will NOT display recommended videos: <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/V07M1BygoQc?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe> Use the content dropdown to create any additional content for the individual video detail page If taxonomy terms have been created, tag the video accordingly The terms created display: On the main library landing page On the individual video detail page Read how to create the taxonomy Read how to change the labels for filtering videos Create the Landing Page for your video library From the Add Content menu option, select Landing Page. You will be given a variety of pre-formatted Landing pages, including Video Library. Just select Video Library, rename the page and save. You're done! Create a video library with a pre-filtered listing of videos Sometimes you want your library to only show one or more specific categories of videos and not the entire library. Create a video library landing page It's easiest to start by adding a pre-formatted video library page, as described above. Edit the Views Display When the Video Library landing page is created using the pre-formatted layout, the Views Display is by default to cu_video_library - Videos, sorted by title Revise the Views Display option Revise the Views Display option to cu_video_library, Videos, sorted by title (requires all OR CAT1_TermID,CAT1_TermID/CAT2_TermID/CAT3_TermID) Enter your taxonomy terms IDs for the video category you want to display NOTE: This step is easier in another browser window, since you need the above page accessible. Click the Taxonomy menu option and scroll down to the video category containing the terms you want to filter your library. Make a note of the Term IDs by which you want to pre-filter your library In this example, there are two terms entered: Artists Series DIY Series For this example, the video library must only display the Artist Series videos. As such, the Term ID is 243. Enter the Term ID into the Arguments field in the Views Display Go back to the landing page you are creating for your Video library and enter in the Term ID just found in the step above into the Arguments field. You're done! Now this Video Landing page will only display the videos of the Term ID set. Create a video pull from your library Once videos are added to the video library, a horizontal pull of three videos can be added to any Landing Page From and Landing Page, add a Views Display Read about adding Views Displays From the Views Display menu select the option of video display needed Row of Three With Summaries (Requires TermID OR TermID + TermID) This option uses filters, entered above, to pull the videos displayed. Summaries are displayed. Row of Three With Summaries This option pulls the three most recently entered videos. Summaries are displayed. Row of Three This option pulls the three most recently entered videos. Summaries are not shown. Row of Three (Requires TermID OR TermID + TermID) This option uses filters, entered above, to pull the videos displayed. Summaries are not shown. NOTE: the image that appears in the pull is the one entered as the thumbnail, above Questions About the User Guide If you have any questions about the user guide, send an email to the Columbia Sites working team. We will get back to you shortly. Request a Site If you are interested in getting a new Columbia Sites, fill out this request form. Columbia Sites116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close