Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Stanford in Washington School of Humanities and Sciences Search Menu Undergraduate Program Overview Internships Student Life Toggle Student Life Living in D.C. Academics Key Dates Frequently Asked Questions Apply Eligibility Requirements Instructions Admissions FAQ Art Gallery Overview & Visit Jack Boul at 90 The Pursuit of Happiness Hard Bargain Farm Xiaoze Xie: Confrontation and Disruption People Staff About Program History On Campus: Contact and Directions In DC: Contact & Directions Experience Washington D.C. Second round Fall 2022 applications are due on a rolling basis as long as space is available. First round Winter 2023 applications are due May 15, 2022. All applications available here. Previous Next Exciting Internship Opportunities for Fall 2022 US Attorney's Office Department of Transportation in the office of Secretary Buttigieg Politico Advocacy organizations such as the National Resources Defense Council, Emily's List, the Community Justice Access Fund, and Jose Andres's World Central Kitchen & Think Food Group See how advocacy becomes legislation through internships in Congressional and Senate offices Come talk to our peer advisors at their office hours. Monday and Wednesday 12-1 or Friday 11-1. Office hours at the same link. Meeting ID: 921 9217 7166 Password: 259350. Stanford in Washington alumna Tiana Epps-Johnson introduces President Barack Obama at Stanford on April 21, 2022. Tiana highlighted her time at SIW and her internship at the Lawyer's Committee for Civil Rights. Student Summer Housing Stanford in Washington offers summer housing to Stanford students for a fee. We do not have an official program during the summer. Our cost for the summer is $5000, which includes room & board. Our move-in date is Thursday, June 16 and the move-out date is Monday, August 29. If you need housing outside of these dates we will do our best to accommodate that, but cannot make any guarantees just yet. Students residing at SIW for the summer will share a room with one other student. Each room has a bathroom ensuite that you will share with your roommate. We give housing priority to Stanford in Washington students and students who have fellowships or stipends through SIG & the Haas Center. Please fill out this Google form to indicate your interest. Please email stanfordinwashington@stanford.edu with any questions. COVID 19 Update Updated August 26, 2021 The Stanford travel policy for the Bing Stanford in Washington Program has been updated, as follows: Travel associated with the Bing Overseas Studies Program (BOSP) and Stanford in Washington are exceptions and will be permitted for fully vaccinated undergraduates. Unvaccinated students who wish to participate in BOSP programs both abroad and in New York, or in Stanford in Washington, must begin the vaccine exception request process for travelers at least 4 weeks in advance of the program withdrawal deadline. Given current COVID-19 conditions, permission for travel through Bing Overseas Studies Program or Stanford in Washington is unlikely to be granted to unvaccinated undergraduate students in Fall 2021 and Winter 2022. For Stanford in Washington, internships and many learning opportunities will not be available to unvaccinated students. Approval for vaccine exemption for on-campus enrollment does not automatically extend to off-campus programs. For more information about program specific withdrawal deadlines please see the Stanford in Washington Handbook and Contract. Our COVID 19 Health Protocols can be found in the document linked here: siw_covid_health_protocols.pdf Why Washington? Small, unique classes Industry expert faculty Meet your academic requirements Explore culture and history in Washington, D.C. Substantive internships and hands-on research Students are individually placed in a substantive internship that enables them to work closely with individuals in Washington's wide range of governmental, non-governmental and cultural organizations. Students also enroll in seminars taught by Stanford faculty and national policy experts. Alumni Information Are you an alum of the Program? Provide us an update on what you are up to and sign up for our mailing list here Contact Us on Campus SIW SIEPR Gunn Building 366 Galvez Street, Room #335 Stanford, CA 94305-4034 Phone: (650) 723-4296 jvizas@stanford.edu Contact Us in DC The Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Center 2661 Connecticut Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20008 Phone: (202) 803-8100 stanfordinwashington@stanford.edu SUNet Login Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.