Skip to Content Social Justice and Advocacy Student Development and Enrollment Services Home Cultural Center Cultural Center Multicultural Student Center EstablisHER Summit Cultural Leadership Summit LGBTQ Services Safe Zone Safe Zone Upcoming Events Resources Advocate Advocate Contact Reservation Reservations LGBTQ+ Lavender Graduation Nguzo Saba Graduation Pawsitive Taste of UCF Previous Next Home Social Justice & Advocacy Lounge Phone Mon- Fri: 8am - 5pm Phone 407-823-0401 Location Student Union, Room 207 Pride Commons Phone Mon-Thurs 11am-6pm/Fri 11am-5pm Phone 407-823-3082 Location Ferrell Commons, Room 171 Social Media  Facebook The mission of Social Justice and Advocacy (SJA) is to promote an equitable campus environment where all are assured that diversity, in its many forms, is valued. We will support efforts to increase equal access to campus resources and opportunities, while cultivating inclusiveness to the least advantaged members of the campus community. SJA will advocate to decrease obstacles that prevent students from succeeding at the University of Central Florida. Social Justice and Advocacy will: Advocate for access and equity throughout the UCF campus community Promote civil conversations on issues impacting campus climate Advocate for the advancement of matters of social justice, equity, and inclusion Reduce barriers concerning prejudice and intergroup conflicts. Social Justice and Advocacy also encompass the Multicultural Student Center (MSC) and LGBTQ+ Services to cover all areas of under-represented communities and exclusivity. Involvement As a UCF student, you are part of a university that prides itself on providing the best opportunities for its attendees. With hundreds of clubs and organizations available for you to join it might be tough to decide how to make your college experience more personal. MSC is here to help you narrow down your choices. Volunteering is the perfect way to discover and develop skills that will make you stand out after graduation. It allows you to immerse yourself in your community while still being able to decide how you spend your time and what you put your efforts toward. If you are interested in volunteering outside the UCF community, please feel free to use our list below as a starting point for your community service research. Other Ways to Get Involved Student Government Association Graduate Student Association Office of Student Involvement Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life Recreation & Wellness Center Upcoming Events Sorry, no events could be found. More Events Page Navigation Home Cultural Center LGBTQ Services Upcoming Events Resources Contact Reservation Contact Us Social Justice and Advocacy Phone 407-823-0401 Email sja@ucf.edu Location Student Union, Room 207 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida