Explore Current Hours and Operations Skip to Content Barnes Center at The Arch Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section How to Get to Us Facilities and HoursExpand Collapse section Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch Barnes Center at The Arch North Campus South Campus Drumlins Country Club Meet the Staff Meet the Students Patient Portal Wellness Portal Forms and Requests Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Confidentiality Privacy Billing and Fees ServicesExpand Collapse section Emergency Make an Appointment After-Hours Care Counseling Health CareExpand Collapse section Trans and Gender Affirming Services Immunizations Laboratory Medical Services Travel Honwadiyenawa’sek Student Health Insurance Nutrition Personal Training Pharmacy Psychiatry Referrals Sexual Health Sexual and Relationship Violence Substance Use Leave of Absence Be MindfulExpand Collapse section Crowley Family MindSpa Meditation Pet Therapy Sanvello Soul Series Yoga Be ActiveExpand Collapse section Aquatics Climbing Wall Cross Country Ski and Snowshoe Center Esports Fitness Centers Fitness Classes Golf and Tennis Ice Sports Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Personal Training Sport Clubs Be InvolvedExpand Collapse section Events Calendar Professional Development Peer Educators Programs Staff Employment Student Employment Volunteer Campus CommunityExpand Collapse section Help a Student Faculty and Staff Resources Education and Resources Wellness Leadership Institute Connect Give Emergency Contact Us Search Search Home Tennity Ice Pavilion – Barnes Center at The Arch – Syracuse University Ice Sports Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion Address: 511 Skytop Road, Syracuse, New York 13244 Phone number: 315.443.4254 Email address: Email the Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion. Facilities and Hours: Please visit the Facilities and Hours webpage to learn more. Explore the Centro South Campus bus schedule and visit the Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion today! Looking for a cool escape? Look no further as the Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion hosts ice sports year-round. Highlights of the space include a regulation-sized rink, a smaller studio sheet, a Pro Shop, skate rentals and skate sharpening. Reserve private ice space through the Wellness Portal. Broomball Curling Hockey Ice Skating Instruction Late Night Ice Open Skate Broomball Link Play broomball with us! Games are played on roughed-up ice in sneakers, and players use plastic ‘brooms” to score goals. Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion hosts a Fall and Spring League. Additional information is available in the Wellness Portal. Curling Link Throw some stones with us! Opportunities are available for all skill sets, but no experience is needed. All needed equipment is provided. Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion hosts year-round Curling Leagues. Additional information is available in the Wellness Portal. Hockey Link Play hockey with us! From leagues to open sessions, everyone has the opportunity to play. Hockey activities are free for Syracuse University and SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) students; $5 for faculty, staff and guests. Highlights include the following: Drop-In Hockey Leagues Open Sled Hockey Skate & Shoot Tennity Ice Pavilion hosts multiple sessions. Additional information is available in the Wellness Portal. Ice Skating Instruction Link The Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion offers learn to skate instruction for different skill levels with multiple sessions throughout the year. Additional information and registration is available in the Wellness Portal. Private Lessons Link Please explore the Wellness Portal for options. Skating School Link Classes: Available year-round. Available levels: Age 3 and older. Cost: Additional information is available in the Wellness Portal. Late Night Ice Link Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion changes into Syracuse’s hottest, or should we say coolest, night club with Late Night Ice! Gather with friends to enjoy music, win prizes and participate in fun theme nights. Opportunities include glow skating and black light curling. Skate the night away every Thursday, Friday and Saturday during the academic year, from 9 p.m. to midnight. Admission and skate rentals are free for students with a Syracuse University or SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) I.D. Open Skate Link During operating hours, you can always enjoy open skating! Open skating is free for Syracuse University and SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) students with I.D. With a valid Syracuse University and SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) I.D. faculty, staff, alumni, dependents and spouses may participate in open skate for $5 per person and skate rental $4 per person. Related Pages Billing and Fees Facilities and Hours Late-Night Programs Meet the Staff Meet the Students Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Wellness Portal Barnes Center at The Arch | 150 Sims Drive, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.8000 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy