Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Get an overview of our inclusive programming and quickly register here Stanford Learning Lab Learning Lab Search this site Submit Search Menu Who We Are People Our Partners & Additional Resources What is Learner Variability? Why Language Matters Stanford Learning Lab Newsletters Clone Stanford Learning Lab - February 2022 Newsletter What We Do Work with a Learning Specialist LLIT Program Executive Functioning (EF) Program Drop In Sessions Work with Other Students PEN Work with UDL Faculty Coaching Learning Library Expert Resources Math Reading Note-Taking Test-Taking Time Management Metacognition Study Strategies Memory LASSI Introduction to the LASSI Take the LASSI LASSI Worksheets Self-Testing Attitude Anxiety Concentration Information Processing Motivation Selecting Main Ideas Test Strategies Time Management Using Academic Resources Assignment Calculator Student Affairs News Main content start The lamps are different, but the light is the same. - Rumi The Stanford Learning Lab guides undergraduate and grad students to become more efficient learners, nurtures student and staff communities, and integrates the goals of Our Most Important Work and the IDEAL Initiative. From our Learning Specialists Tip of the Month: Practice mindfulness by setting chimes on your phone and tracking where your attention is when you hear the chime. Without self-judgment, note what’s contributing to your focus or lack thereof and adjust accordingly. For more tips and resources on this topic, visit our Focus page in the Learning Library. Our Mission Discover our core objectives and the values that fuel them. Learn More People Meet our staff and find out how to connect with them. Learn More Partners Connect with our Learning Lab partners. Learn More What is Learner Variability? On an individual scale, we start from the cognitive and social science premise that a multitude of factors influence learning. On a larger scale, learner variability refers to the ways in which the diversity of approaches to learning can create major hurdles and deliver tremendous benefits. Learn More Language Matters At the Learning Lab, we work with all Stanford students. When discussing individual learner variability, we use each student’s preferred terms, embracing the stance that Elizabeth Ross takes. Learn More Learning Lab Newsletters Our monthly newsletters provide highlights of Learning Lab programming, dates for upcoming events, and strategies that will enhance your learning experience. Learn More Stanford University Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Stanford Learning Lab Web Login Address 563 Salvatierra Walk 3rd floor Stanford, CA 94305 United States Email Visit Campus Map Tel: 650.497.7561 Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top