This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW We are looking forward to hosting you on a campus visit! Whether you choose to visit us in-person or virtually, we are confident you will enjoy your time learning more about Wichita State. Each campus visit session includes a welcome presentation from an admissions staff member, a campus & housing tour, and a Shocker Send Off – your time to ask Admissions all of your questions before receiving your FREE Wichita State t-shirt! HEALTH & SAFETY DURING YOUR VISIT: Masks are no longer required on campus but are strongly recommended. Our team is staying home if they have a fever or other symptoms, and we would ask that you do the same. Protecting you and our team is the top priority. We appreciate your patience as we navigate safety first for everyone. Take a look at our calendar below and select a date that works for you. A member of our team will be in touch with more specific details regarding your visit. In the meantime, if you have questions, reach out to us at campus.visits@wichita.edu or (316) 978-4755. Go Shocks! Select your visit date from the calendar below! Please allow for a two week notice when requesting academic appointments for on-campus visits. Both on-campus and virtual campus visits are available. Be sure to check which type of visit you’ve selected before you register. On-Campus Visits Mondays at 9 a.m. and Noon Tuesdays at 9 a.m. Wednesdays at Noon Thursdays at Noon Fridays at 9 a.m. and Noon Virtual Campus Visits Tuesdays at 4 p.m. - This excludes the first Tuesday of every month. Can't find a date that works for you? Check out our Admissions Events to see a full listing of other opportunities to visit Shocker Nation- including select Saturday events! Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Follow us on social media! Tweets by wheatweet 5 day forecast for Wichita, KS (67260) This Afternoon 75° F / 61° F Slight Chance Showers And Thunderstorms A slight chance of rain showers before 5pm, then a slight chance of showers and thunderstorms. Partly sunny, with a high near 75. Northeast wind around 9 mph. Chance of precipitation is 20%. Wednesday 66° F / 52° F Showers And Thunderstorms Showers and thunderstorms. Cloudy, with a high near 66. North northeast wind around 14 mph, with gusts as high as 21 mph. Chance of precipitation is 80%. Thursday 71° F / 53° F Slight Chance Rain Showers then Sunny A slight chance of rain showers before 7am. Sunny, with a high near 71. North northeast wind around 8 mph. Chance of precipitation is 20%. Friday 74° F / 61° F Mostly Sunny Mostly sunny, with a high near 74. Saturday 77° F / 64° F Chance Showers And Thunderstorms A chance of showers and thunderstorms before 1pm, then a slight chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy, with a high near 77. Chance of precipitation is 40%. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube My favorite was working with students. Helping children is important to me.Natalie Mark,Elementary Ed/Strat Comm major, United Way of the Plains Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support ©2022 Wichita State University