Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures Main Menu Menu About Us Submenu History Graduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Contact People Submenu Faculty Emeritus Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Program Submenu Program Requirements Undergraduate Courses Russian Language and Culture Certificate Program Russian and Eurasian Studies Program Study Abroad Current Students Submenu Junior Independent Work Senior Exams Senior Thesis Graduate Program Submenu Admission and Funding Program Requirements Graduate Courses Submenu Interdisciplinary Courses Information for Current Students Submenu Past Dissertations Ph.D. Examination, Bibliography and Dissertation Graduate Students Conferences Resources SubMenu test Facebook Instagram Twitter Log in Search Search Alerts The Slavic Department and the Program in Russian, Eastern European and Eurasian Studies express solidarity with Ukraine For more on the department and program on Ukraine solidarity... X Slavic Languages and Literatures The Princeton University Slavic Department response... WELCOME BACK IN THREE DIMENSIONS! --Cordially, The Slavic Faculty The illustration: Wassily Kandinsky, The Muses Princeton in St. Petersburg Program Established in 2004, the Princeton in St. Petersburg Program offers Princeton undergraduates a unique chance to improve their knowledge of Russian language and culture during a two-month summer course Image credits: "Вид на Адмиралтейскую сторону с Васильевского острова" Heritage Russian at Princeton Do you wonder why your Russian grandmother believes you can catch cold from a draft or if you do not wear slippers in the house? New Book By Professor Serguei Oushakine А Medium for the Masses: Photomontage and the Optical Turn in Early Soviet Russia “The Nose”: A Stylistic and Critical Companion to Nikolai Gogol’s Story - Ksana Blank This literary guide leads students with advanced knowledge of Russian as well as experienced scholars through the text of Nikolai Gogol’s absurdist masterpiece “The Nose.” Professor Elena Fratto publishes “Medical Storyworlds: Health, Illness, and Bodies in Russian and European Literature at the Turn of the Twentieth Century” Medicus podcast featuring an interview with Professor Elena Fratto about literature and medicine. 1 / 8 Previous image ◀︎ Next image ▶︎ Undergraduate The Slavic Department aspires to develop in its majors a critically informed appreciation for the literature and culture of Russia and the Slavic world. Learn More About Us The Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures welcomes intellectually curious students seeking to understand the cultures and societies of Russia and Eastern Europe. Learn More Graduate The Princeton Slavic Department Ph.D. program provides students with a firm foundation in their major area as well as the opportunity to explore related fields. Learn More Princeton in St. Petersburg Currently suspended until further notice. Established in 2004, the Princeton in St. Petersburg Program offers Princeton undergraduates a unique chance to improve their knowledge of Russian language and culture during a two-month summer course in St. Petersburg, the cultural capital of Russia. Info Events No upcoming events found. View All Events News Congratulations Class of 2022! May 26, 2022 An Interview With Marie Yovanovitch April 14, 2022 Slavic in the News! April 13, 2022 View All News Program in Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies The Slavic Department works closely with the REEES to develop interdisciplinary undergraduate and graduate courses and lectures. REEES offers a certificate track for undergraduates, and funding to support research and language study. Link Slavic Digital Humanities Working Group In conjunction with the Center for Digital Humanities, the Slavic DH Working group will hold workshops, talks, and other events beginning fall 2017. The working group features many ongoing projects, including Playing Soviet: The Visual Language of Early Soviet Children's Books, 1917-1953. Link Footer Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Operator: (609) 258-3000 Facebook Instagram Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University