About Services and Resources Departments Giving Student Leadership and Engagement 2022-2023 internship applications now open! Click here to learn more. MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Home About Employment and Leadership Fast Facts News and Marketing Our Office Staff Table and Space Reservations Events and Activities New Student Guide to Involvement NC State Events Calendar University Activities Board Upcoming Events Civic and Community Engagement Active Citizenry Series Alternative Service Break Civic Action Network Feed the Pack Food Pantry Mystery Service Saturday Pack the Polls Service Site Leadership Leadership Development Program One-Time Leadership Workshops Gallup CliftonStrengths Leader of the Pack Oaks Leadership Scholars Student Organizations Browse Student Organizations Rent a Locker Student Government Student Organization Resources Student Organization Funding University Activities Board Resources COVID-19 Feed the Pack Food Pantry News and Marketing Student Conferences Student Organization Resources Table and Space Reservations Rent a Locker Give Alternative Service Break Explore Our ASB Experiences ASB Information Meetings Wednesday, Sept. 22, 12-1pm, Talley 3285 Tuesday, Sept. 28, 4:30-5:30pm, Talley 3223 Wednesday, Oct. 6, 12:30-1:30pm, Zoom Meeting Recording Thursday, Oct. 7, 7-8pm, Talley 3223 APPLICATION – There are a few spots still for spring, but they will fill up fast ASB During COVID-19 Program Overview Participant Resources Goals of ASB International Services Make Payments Financial Resources asb covid-19 tag ASB During COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has had widespread effects on university travel in 2021. As such, we are working hard to provide safe, engaging experiences for students as we enter this new academic year. With the continued challenge of new variants, we reserve the right to cancel, modify, and adjust experiences as necessary. We are grateful for the countless individuals and groups at NC State and around the world working to ensure we can stay in community with one another even if separated by difficult circumstances. Any international ASB experience will be working in partnership with Study Abroad. Click here for Restricted Travel Policy information. ASB Interest Form Are you interested in joining ASB in the future? Click here to complete our ASB interest form and stay connected when opportunities become available. program-overview tag Overview The Alternative Service Break (ASB) program is a unique learning experience in which students engage in direct service to a community while being immersed in the culture. Teams are led by student team-leaders and accompanied by faculty or staff advisors. Each team spends extensive time prior to travel doing team-building, planning for their experience, and studying the scope of their impact in the communities they will engage with. Throughout their travels, team members participate in a variety of cultural, educational, recreational, and reflective activities to enhance their service experience. During fall/spring break, our student groups serve in North Carolina, across the United States, and around the world. Teams sponsored by Student Leadership and Engagement and other campus partners focus on water quality and sanitation, affordable housing, youth education and empowerment, medical clinics, LGBTQ+ and civil rights, and environmental issues. goals tag Goals of ASB To develop and enhance a value for public service, civic engagement, and service-learning within the participants. To develop diverse service teams committed to exploring and advocating for social justice issues. To help participants reflect on their privileges and begin to use these to break down the systems that afford unearned privilege in our society. To provide opportunities for participants to reflect on their roles in a global community. To provide opportunities for cultural and language immersion through service projects with diverse individuals and communities. application tag Application Program Deadline Trip Application Travel Award Spring Break Application October 10th | 11:59pm Application Future dates to be determined financial-resources tag Concerned about Paying for an Experience? Our office desires to make every effort to remove barriers to students being able to participate in ASB, and there are a number of avenues through which financials barriers can be managed appropriately: Travel Credits Student Leadership and Engagement has offered travel credits in the past to students via an application process. These credits are designed to offset the overall cost of an Alternative Service Break experience. More information will be available regarding 2021-2022 travel credit process this summer when applications open. College of Engineering Students Fee-paying students whose majors are part of the College of Engineering may have the opportunity to receive some financial support for the travel portion of your ASB experience depending on funding availability. More information will be available this summer and fall regarding this College of Engineering travel support. Still concerned about how to pay? Please contact assistant director Adam Culley directly if you are still concerned or have questions about paying for Alternative Service Break experiences. Click here to contact Adam. international-services tag Passport and International Services NC State University has its own Passport Services office right on campus! If you’re in need of applying for, updating, or have questions regarding your Passport for international travel, set up an appointment with Passport Services today in preparation for your ASB experience. Passport Services Website Find Passport Services on Google Maps For international students considering an ASB experience, please be sure to consult with the Office of International Services and/or your respective embassy to ensure all documentation and permissions are in order prior to your commitment. All international students are responsible to being aware of the implications of traveling outside the United States while on their visa status. Office of International Services Website Find the Office of International Services on Google Maps payments tag testimonials-faqs tag Payments, Testimonials, and FAQs Listen to ASB Testimonials Make Deposit and Payments Frequently Asked Questions participant-resources tag Participant Resources Active Citizen Continuum Show More The Active Citizen Continuum is a model developed by Break Away, a national nonprofit, to display the stages of involvement in development and service work, from ‘Member’ to ‘Active Citizen.’ CliftonStrengths Show More ASB participants take the CliftonStrengths assessment, a survey developed by Gallup designed to provide a language to discover, discuss, and activate one’s talents. Our office has two certified coaches to assist with digesting the assessment results, what they mean, and how they’re applied. Team Participant Manual Show More All ASB participants are educated through a classroom-style cohort in preparation for their experience. The Team Participant Manual outlines each step of important information for all travelers. ASB Deadlines Show More Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Alternative Service Break is currently evaluating in-person experiences for 2021-2022. Please return to this page soon for more information. Click here to contact assistant director Adam Culley for general questions about the program. questions tag Questions Questions about the ASB program? Contact Adam Culley via email at alculley@ncsu.edu Student Leadership and Engagement Office Location 4210 Talley Student Union 2610 Cates Avenue Campus Box 7295 Raleigh, NC 27695 Spring Break Hours Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Return to normal hours on Monday, March 21, 2022 Open Hours Monday-Thursday 9 a.m.-10 p.m. Friday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Email ncstate-sle@ncsu.edu Telephone 919-515-2797 Facebook Instagram Email About Website Feedback Site Index Compliments & Complaints Table and Space Reservations News and Marketing Contact Us Search for: © 2022 Student Leadership and Engagement | Log in