Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Sleep Sleep A good night’s sleep may help to improve your performance! The benefits of quality sleep include: Feeling energized and ready for school and work. Processing information more efficiently so learning and retaining information is easier. Promoting memory consolidation of what you’re studying or learning. Helping to maintain concentration. Not getting enough shut-eye impairs your memory, concentration, reaction time, and ability to process information. The potential consequences of sleep deprivation (e.g. all-nighters) include: Daytime sleepiness Depressed mood Lapses in concentration Impaired memory Decreased academic performance Weakened immune system Consider sleep as part of your physical activity routine. There are several reasons to prioritize sleep in support of physical health: Sleep affects hormones that control your appetite and regulate energy expenditure. Sleep may help support muscle recovery after physical activity. Recent studies have shown that not getting enough sleep might negatively affect your metabolism and make it difficult to maintain your energy balance. Take the online sleep assessment! It's a great way to learn more about your sleep habits and get individualized feedback about ways to improve your zzzs. Please note: Your responses to the assessment questions will be recorded and used to inform future efforts to support students’ sleep habits. Your responses will remain anonymous and will not be shared beyond the Alice! Health Promotion team. To better understand why you need sleep, check out these resources: American Psychological Association: Why Sleep is Important and What Happens When You Don’t Get Enough Harvard Medical School: Why Sleep Matters Go Ask Alice! Q&A: Downsides of sleep deprivation Go Ask Alice! Q&A: He Needs TV, I Need Quiet Go Ask Alice! Q&A: Stress Causes Sleepiness Expand all Collapse all All About Sleep Falling Asleep It turns out that what you do during the day can have an impact on how easy (or difficult) it is for you to fall asleep and prevent you from getting a good night’s rest! Factors that help support healthy sleep habits include: Avoiding caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine before bed. Caffeine and nicotine are stimulants, which can keep you tossing and turning at night. Alcohol may help you doze off, but can prevent you from entering deeper, more restorative sleep stages. Being physically active, but not too close to bedtime. Regular physical activity can improve your sleep. Consider visiting the Columbia Health Physical Activity page for more information on getting your body moving. Exercising at least than 2-3 hours before bedtime is recommended as strenuous activities too close to bedtime might also make sleeping difficult. There may be residual impacts from exercise — such as increased body temperature and heart rate or more endorphins in your system — that aren’t conducive to sleep. Optimizing your bedroom environment. If you’re able, set your thermostat so your bedroom is cool, but not cold. You may also use a fan or extra blankets to create a comfortable bedroom temperature. Avoid exposure to blue light right before going to bed (such as those emitted from televisions, computers, and cell phone screens). The blue light tells your body that it’s time to wake up! If lively hallway activity, street noise, or a loud roommate are keeping you up, consider creating additional insulation from sound. You could try hanging a blanket on the wall or at the base of a door as this may help dampen the sound. You might also benefit from using ear plugs, a white noise machine, or a simple fan to drown out extraneous sound. Visit Alice! Health Promotion for a sleep kit that includes an eye mask and ear plugs! Keeping a regular sleep schedule. Try going to sleep and waking up around the same time every day. While this may be tough, sticking to a routine — even on the weekend — will help you function at your best and help you fall asleep faster. If you can’t stick to a regular sleep time every day, try to stay within a two-hour window of your normal bedtime and wake up around the time you usually do. Keeping your sleep schedule consistent not only maximizes the benefits of sleep, but also reduces disruptions to your body’s natural rhythms. There are even more resources to help you fall asleep faster: Go Ask Alice! Sleep Archives National Sleep Foundation: Food and Sleep National Sleep Foundation: Relaxation Exercises for Falling Asleep Staying Asleep Quiet your surroundings! Consider using earplugs, a white noise machine, or fan to help mask outside noise. You can get a sleep kit, complete with ear plugs, at Alice! Health Promotion. Creating additional insulation from sound, such as hanging a blanket on the wall or at the base of a door, may also help! Have a chat with anyone sharing a sleep space with you. If your sleep partner snores, hogs the covers, kicks in their sleep, wakes up at an earlier time, or has different sleep preferences, this may impact your quality of sleep. Try talking with them about what’s keeping you awake and how you can work together to alleviate the problem. This could include seeking medical advice for snoring, buying earplugs, using two separate comforters, creating pillow barriers, or using silent vibrating alarm clocks. If you let your furry friends (cats, dogs, other pets) share your bed, they may unintentionally cause disruptions to your sleep, whether by making the space warmer or by moving around. If this is the case, it might be good to try a couple of nights without them to see if your sleep improves. Roommate keeping you awake? Consider having a conversation with them about how to compromise and accommodate each other’s sleep habits. Minimize exposure to light at night. Use heavy curtains or blinds to help block out outside light. Is your alarm clock especially bright? Does your laptop light display prominently? Try to cover these lights up at night, or consider the use of an eye mask. When purchasing an eye mask, look for one that has an adjustable head-strap, is made from thick, breathable materials, is dark in color, and has a convex shaped eye area that won’t restrict eye movement. You can grab one at Alice! Health Promotion. To learn more about how to fall and stay asleep alone or with a partner, check out these additional resources: Mayo Clinic: Insomnia: How do I stay asleep? Go Ask Alice! Q&A: He needs the TV to fall asleep, I need a quiet room — Help! Go Ask Alice! Q&A : Difficulty sleeping double in a twin bed Your Sleep Environment Use your bed for sleeping, not studying. Think of your bed as your sanctuary, free of work and stress — it’s no fun to wake up drooling on your textbook! Establish your bed as a comfortable, relaxing place and find other spaces to study. Use pillows or supportive mattress covers to enhance your nightly rest. Although replacing your mattress may not be feasible, adding a pillow topper or new pillows may help provide the comfort and support you need. Don’t underestimate the potential value of clean sheets: even if you can’t see the dust mites and bacteria that may be lurking, these critters may keep you up — especially if you have allergies or a cold. Create an ambiance for sleep and turn off those electronics! Set low lights and create a sleeping environment that’s quiet, cool, and comfortable. If you can, avoid exposure to blue light right before going to bed ((such as those emitted from televisions, computers, and cell phone screens).). The blue light tells your body that it’s time to wake up! Consider using an application or extension that shifts your device into night mode to minimize exposure. Stress and Sleep Do you have racing thoughts that just won’t quit? Write it all out before going to bed. If you find that your thoughts, worries, or to-do lists keep you up, consider writing it all out before turning in for the night. This may help you feel more organized and perhaps a bit more in control. You could also try keeping a notebook next to your bed in case something pops into your mind as you’re trying to fall asleep. Try coping with stress through meditation or deep breathing. Meditating may help direct your thoughts towards sleep and relaxation. When meditating, the first step is to clear your mind — try sitting in a quiet, comfortable place and become aware of your breath as it enters and leaves your lungs then nostrils. Close your eyes. Inhale while counting to three and then exhale while counting to three. Focus on feeling your abdomen rise and fall with each breath. While calming your mind may seem like an impossible task, with practice, it becomes easier. Reach for the sky and get better shut eye. Stretching may help relax your muscles, a first step to relaxing your mind. You can use just about any stretching technique that works for you, or you can try this quick neck stretch: Reach your left arm over your head until your fingers are just touching the top of your right ear. Gently pull your head towards your left shoulder, feeling a subtle stretch through the right side of your neck. Hold for a few seconds and feel the muscle lengthen. Then, do the same on the other side. Stretching should never cause pain — if you do it gently and in the right spots, this can be a really powerful technique. There are some additional resources to help you cope with stress and improve your sleep: American Psychological Association (APA): Stress and Sleep Anxiety and Depression Association of America: Anxiety and Sleep Disorders Coping Tools Links to Success Go Ask Alice! Q&A: With my stress comes sleepiness Naps Though getting a bit of shut eye midday can be helpful, it’s best to keep them short and sweet. If you do need a nap, try limiting it to 20-30 minutes. Set your alarm to wake you up. Wear ear plugs and an eye mask to block out light and noise. Pick a nap spot that’s separate from where you study to make sure your body doesn’t associate it with sleep, so it doesn’t interrupt your studying later. Taking a short nap may improve alertness and performance without disrupting your nighttime sleep or making you feel groggy. Naps might also: Improve concentration and memory Improve critical thinking and academic performance Reduce stress and improve mood These are also all benefits of getting a quality night of sleep! To nap or not to nap? The take-home message — a good night’s sleep is more beneficial than napping. However, if you must nap, try to keep it to no more than 30 minutes. Check out these resources to learn more about napping recommendations and benefits: National Sleep Foundation: Napping Mayo Clinic: Napping: Do's and don'ts for healthy adults Go Ask Alice! Q&A: Short sleep + long naps = healthy? Campus Resources Alice! Health Promotion Go Ask Alice! Sleep Archives Go Ask Alice! Stress & Anxiety Archives Counseling and Psychological Services Medical Services Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close