Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Get Involved Campus Activities '21-'22 Student Org FAQs & Resources Big Red Guidebook for RSOs Fun Things To Do Slope Day 2022 Movies on the Arts Quad ClubFest First 30 Days Re-Welcome Events (Fall 21) Virtual Programming Ideas Weeks of Welcome (WOW) Winter Break at Cornell Leadership Workshop Series Club Advisors Club Sports and/or Physical Activity CampusGroups Student Organization Directory Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Slope Day 2022 🌸🎶 The Cornell University Slope Day Programming Board presents: Slope Day 2022! Slope Day 2022 🌸🎶 All attendees must present their wristband and Cornell ID at the gates to enter Slope Day and/or SlopeFest. Outside food, drinks, containers, large bags, and other items are not allowed past the entrance points. Look below under "Slope Day Rules" for more info. Day-of wristband distribution sites are open 9am-3pm. Sites are at Noyes (West), Baker Tower (West), Anabel Taylor Hall (Central), and Morrill Hall (Central). On Slope Day (Wednesday, May 11), any undergraduate student, full-time faculty, or full-time staff member who has not yet picked up a wristband may pick up their wristband from one of the four (4) wristband distribution locations from 9:00 am until 3:00 pm. Undergraduates must obtain their ticket via CampusGroups PRIOR TO picking up their wristband (regardless of location). Reserve your wristband here. Food tickets are available for purchase by credit card only (no cash or mobile payment). Beer tickets can be purchased by guests 21+ with a valid government photo ID. Gates open at 11am for both Slope Day and SlopeFest on Ho Plaza. Main stage music starts at 11:15am. SlopeFest music performs between acts. Check out the Slope Day map and plan out your day! Slope Day 2019 The Slope Day Programming Board is excited to bring Slope Day back to Libe Slope this year! Join us on May 11th for performances throughout the day. Gates open at 11am. MATURE CONTENT: This event is intended for mature audiences. Please be aware of your surroundings, as the content may not be suitable for all ages. The Slope Day Programming Board is a unit of Campus Activities within Student & Campus Life, funded in part by the Student Activity Fee. Slope Day Information 🎉🎉 Slope Day 2022 Line-up Slope Day 2022 Line-up: Main Stage Aminé: A Portland native, Aminé’s career reached a great height when his hit song “Caroline” came out in 2016. From this moment on, he has continued to soar even higher. In 2020, he had over 740 million streams on Spotify. With projects like Good for You (2017), ONEPOINTFIVE (2018), Limbo (2020), and his most recent project TWOPOINTFIVE (2021), Aminé’s visual creativity, thoughtful & playful bars, and high energy make him one of the hottest artists right now on the music scene. Loud Luxury: With their worldwide smash hit “Body” (feat. Brando), Loud Luxury—who is Canadian duo AndrewFedykand Joe De Pace—is certified Diamond (10x Platinum) in Canada, and multi-platinum across Europe and the U.S. “Body” also held the #1 spot in the U.S. Mediabase Dance Airplay, charted in the Top 40 of U.S. Pop radio and the U.K.’s Official Singles Chart (#4), and accumulated over a billion plays across streaming services. Luna Li: Born and raised in Toronto and a multi-instrumentalist -- Luna Li plays the guitar, keyboards, violin, and harp as well as providing all the vocals. You only need to watch the artist's jams videos -- that regularly reach 200,000 viewers on TikTok with songs like “Silver into Rain” & “cloud castle” and have topped one million plays on Twitter before. 2022 Big Red Icon winner: After Six: A Cornell sponsored student group started in 2009, After Six derives its bright and energetic grooves from genres like R&B, alt-pop, and neo-soul. This nine-piece group, featuring three powerful vocalists and a bold horn section, will get you moving. Eager to perform on slope day, After Six has put together an animated set-list, including songs by Beyoncé, Rex Orange County, Anderson .Paak, SZA, and more. Slope Day 2022 Line-up: Slope Fest The 2nd and 3rd place winners of this year's Big Red Icon event will be performing on Ho Plaza between the main acts as part of Slope Fest. 12:45pm: Spencer Nachman Band: The Spencer Nachman Band is a blues-rock band featuring Spencer Nachman (’24) on guitar and vocals, Kyle Wolf (’25) on drums, Ben Grodner (’18) on bass, Constantine Kenny (’22) on keyboards, and Gracie Gallen (’24) on vocals. This powerhouse band was formed in 2021 and has performed at Ithaca venues such as The Dock. You can check out our material on social media @spencernachmanmusic. Get excited for our performance on Slope Day where we will be debuting our larger band and new music! 2:45pm: The Fuse: Picture this: A roaring synth and shredding guitars, a blonde screaming into a mic at you. Then ZAP! It all goes silent. At our first open mic night—before we had a name—we blew a fuse. Now we draw on that power, mixing our favorites from grunge, prog metal, classic rock and the blues into a unique sound that hopefully won't short out the slope. Slope Day Rules Slope Day Rules Attendees Attendance at Slope Day and related events is limited to current Cornell students, as well as full-time faculty and staff. Recent Cornell graduates from December 2021 are also invited to participate in Slope Day. There are no exceptions for outside guests. All attendees must receive a wristband prior to entering Slope Day. Information below. Outside Food and Beverage Do not bring food or drinks: Outside food or drink are not permitted within Slope Day. Food and drinks are available for purchase provided by Cornell Dining. Free food and beverages are also available in Slope Fest. You may bring an empty, clear water bottle (not glass) to fill at one of the water stations within Slope Day. No open containers: Open containers of alcohol are prohibited outside the gates. For those who are 21 + there is beer service available. No cash on Slope: purchase alcohol and food online prior to and on Slope Day. Plan ahead. BRBs or credit cards ok for food on Slope. NOTE: to purchase a drink (beer) bracelet, you need a government-issued ID. Entrance: All attendees are subject to search: Travel light to reduce wait times at gates. Leave bags, purses, and other larger bags and items at home. Not allowed within the gates: “outside” food or drink, large bags, professional cameras (i.e. cameras with detachable lenses and/or flashes), amplified sound, floaties, lawn chairs, etc. You can be asked to leave: Slope Day staff reserves the right to eject attendees or refuse to serve attendees alcohol. Attendees may leave the Slope and return throughout the day as long as they keep on the valid wristband. Food, Drink, & Alcohol Food, Drink, & Alcohol Check the next tab for available food on Slope Day. Is alcohol for sale at Slope Day? What is a beer bracelet? Yes, beer is available for purchase on Libe Slope to those who are 21 years of age or older. Attendees can purchase a beer bracelet (limited to one per person) with five tabs, which they can use for up to five beers on the Slope or they can be used to purchase food. Beer bracelets are for sale at Slope Day under the ID tent by the Willard Straight parking lot (limited to one per person). Credit cards, Big Red Bucks, and Meal Choice are accepted payment methods. Note: Attendees who want to get a beer bracelet need to present a valid government-issued ID and students will also need to present their Cornell ID at the ID tent on the Slope. No outside beverages are permitted. Is cannabis allowed at Slope Day? No. While cannabis is legal in NY State, it is not permitted on college campuses, including at Cornell. Food Options Available on Slope Day Food Available on Slope Day Stop by Slope Day BreakFest Stay hydrated and well-fed throughout the day: Start your morning off with breakfast in a dining hall or get a FREE BreakFEST sandwich, fruit, and water in front of the Schwartz Center in Collegetown from 7:30AM - 10:30AM on May 11. How can I get food at Slope Day? Before gates open: Slope Day BreakFest in front of the Schwartz Center, or the many dining halls that are open on May 11. At the Slope: Free food and beverages are available at Slope Fest in Ho Plaza Food and beverages are available for purchase on the Slope using Big Red Bucks or Meal Choice. Attendees need to purchase food tickets, which they can then present at a variety of Food Tents (in the Willard Straight Hall parking lot and in Ho Plaza). Pre-sale food tickets are available at Okenshield's starting Monday May 2. Skip day-of lines and purchase early! Free water is available on the Slope. Slope Day 2022 Menu All food requires food tickets. These can be purchased at Okenshield's starting Monday 5/2 (recommended to purchase early to skip day-of lines!!). Food tents will be in the Willard Straight Hall parking lot and in Ho Plaza. Station 1 Fair Food Hot Dog- 1 ticket Beef, Gluten Chili Cheese Dog- 2 tickets Beef, Dairy, Gluten Bavarian Pretzels with Cheese Sauce - 2 tickets Dairy, Gluten Loaded Kettle Chips with Bacon, Cheese and Scallion- 2 tickets Dairy, Pork, FRIED Station 2 Barbeque Pulled Pork on a Brioche Roll with Sweet and Tangy Barbeque Sauce and Cole Slaw - 2 tickets Egg, Soy, Gluten, Pork Carolina Gold, Pulled Chicken with Bread and Butter Pickles on a Brioche Roll – 2 tickets Soy, Gluten, Poultry Syracuse Salt Potatoes with butter – 1 ticket Dairy (Gluten Free buns available) Station 3 Street Food Beef Taco’s - Shredded Pepper Jack and Cheddar Cheese with lettuce and Taco Sauce- 2 tickets Dairy, Gluten Tofu Taco’s- Roasted Poblano Aioli, Red Cabbage in Lime Vinaigrette, Fresh Tomato Salsa- 2 tickets Soy, Gluten Street Corn with Mexican Spices, and Cotija Cheese- 1 ticket Egg, Soy, Gluten (Corn tortillas available for gluten free tacos) Station 4 (Ho Plaza) Grinders Buffalo Chicken Sub - Fried Chicken, Buffalo Sauce, Shredded Lettuce and Creamy Ranch- 2 tickets Dairy, Egg, Soy, Gluten FRIED Cheese Steak- Thinly Sliced Beef, Sautéed Peppers and Onion and Cheddar Cheese Sauce - 2 tickets Dairy, Soy, Gluten Sausage Pepper and Onions- Sweet Sausage and Sautéed peppers and onions on a soft hoagie roll -- 2 tickets Pork, Gluten Ice Cream Sandwich- 1 ticket Dairy, Gluten, Soy Station 5 Kosher 104 West Smoked Beef Brisket Slider on Challah Roll - 3 tickets Gluten, Egg Sweet Potato Latke w/ Caramelized Onions, Lemon & Herb Aioli- 2 tickets Egg, Soy, Gluten Health & Safety Tips Health & Safety Tips COVID-19 COVID-19 is still present in and around our community. As you prepare to celebrate Slope Day, please be mindful of your social interactions. Wear a mask when in large groups or crowded spaces, avoid contact with others, get tested if you are experiencing symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, and consider taking a supplemental test following the event. For more information about current COVID-19 public health guidelines, please visit covid.cornell.edu . ALCOHOL & OTHER DRUGS The legal drinking age is 21. If you drink alcohol, plan ahead for safety and follow these tips Cornell’s Student Code of Conduct applies every day of the year, and enforcement is stepped up on Slope Day. If you see someone who requires medical attention due to an alcohol or drug-related emergency, do the right thing and call 9-1-1. The Good Samaritan protocol/law helps protect you (and the person needing assistance) from judicial / legal consequences if you call for help. WEATHER Plan ahead by checking the weather for Wednesday, May 11th, 2022. In case of inclement weather, please see the Cornell University Severe Weather Guidelines Slope Day Events ☀️ There is plenty to do on Slope Day! Check out each of these events happening on Slope Day. Slope Day Slope Day The main event! Gates open at 11am and the concert will wrap up around 4pm. Read this website for rules, restrictions, and what to expect from Slope Day. Slope Fest Slope Fest Be sure to stop by Slope Fest on Ho Plaza! Slope Fest will include FREE food, drinks, carnival games, prizes, music, and more. There will also be a large screen projecting the Slope Day concert for folks who may want to enjoy the concert on Ho Plaza. Between the Main Stage performances, there will be performances from student groups (see above line-up). Note: you must have your wristband to participate in Slope Fest. Pepsi is giving out Bubbly, Gatorlyte, tea, and chips. There will also be free donuts, cookies, pastries, pop tarts, popcorn, sno-cones, and Cornell Dairy ice cream while supplies last! Alternative Slope Day Alternative Slope Day Alternative Slope Day is an opportunity for folks to get off campus and try something new. The Campus Activities office works with Cornell Outdoor Education to offer free spots to the Hoffman Challenge Course. The ropes course and other activities are all "challenge by choice". Reserve your free ticket here starting Wednesday May 4 at noon! Slope Day BreakFEST Slope Day BreakFEST Start your morning off with breakfast in a dining hall or get a FREE BreakFEST sandwich, fruit, and water in front of the Schwartz Center in Collegetown from 7:30AM - 10:30AM on May 11. Hosted by Cornell Health with food provided by Cornell Dining. Wristbands: REQUIRED for all attendees ‼️ To attend Slope Day, all attendees must acquire a wristband that serves as your entry ticket into the event along with your Cornell ID. Wristbands can be picked up starting May 8th at various parts of campus. You must reserve your wristband via CampusGroups prior to picking up your wristband. Reservations will go live Tuesday 5/3. Wristbands are not transferrable or replaceable under any circumstances. When you pick up your wristband, a volunteer will put it on your wrist and it must stay on until after Slope Day. Removing the wristband will shred the fabric, making it unusable. Attendance at Slope Day and related events is limited to current Cornell students, as well as full-time faculty and staff. Recent Cornell graduates from December 2021 are also invited to participate in Slope Day. There are no exceptions for outside guests. Undergraduate students (current students + December '21 graduates) Undergraduate students Start picking up wristbands May 8, 2022. You must bring your Cornell ID to redeem your wristband. Be sure your wristband is reserved on CampusGroups. Times are subject to change. All current undergraduate students and December '21 graduates can reserve their wristband for FREE at the below link. Note: if you are a current graduate/professional student and graduated from Cornell undergrad in December '21, you can reserve your FREE wristband. Sunday May 8 Monday May 9 Tuesday May 10 North Campus Service Center 12:00 – 10:00 pm 8:00 am – 10:00 pm 8:00 am – 10:00 pm Cascadilla Service Center 12:00 – 5:00 pm 8:00 am – 7:00 pm 8:00 am – 7:00 pm West Campus House Offices CLOSED 9:00 am – 8:00 pm 9:00 am – 8:00 pm Cornell Store CLOSED 8:30 am – 6:00 pm 8:30 am – 6:00 pm Willard Straight Hall 3:00 – 5:00 pm *Kick-off event* 12:00 - 5:00 pm CLOSED Noyes Community Center CLOSED CLOSED 7:00 pm - midnight Reserve your wristband here. On Slope Day (Wednesday, May 11), any undergraduate student, full-time faculty, or full-time staff member who has not yet picked up a wristband may pick up their wristband from one of the four (4) wristband distribution locations from 9:00 am until 3:00 pm. Undergraduates must obtain their ticket via CampusGroups PRIOR TO picking up their wristband (regardless of location). Noyes (West) Baker Tower (West) Anabel Taylor Hall (Central) Morrill Hall (Central) Graduate/Professional students Graduate and Professional students can purchase their wristband Monday May 9 and Tuesday May 10 at the following locations. Wristbands cost $27 per person. You will need your Cornell student ID. Reserve your wristband at the link below. Note: if you are a current graduate/professional student and graduated from Cornell undergrad in December '21, you can reserve your FREE wristband (see undergraduate section above). Sunday May 8 Monday May 9 Tuesday May 10 Big Red Barn CLOSED 2:00 – 10:00 pm 2:00 – 10:00 pm Hasbrouck Community Center CLOSED 8:00 am – 7:00 pm 8:00 am – 7:00 pm Cornell Store CLOSED 8:30 am – 6:00 pm 8:30 am – 6:00 pm Reserve your wristband here. On Slope Day (Wednesday, May 11), any graduate/professional student who needs to purchase their wristband may do so from the Cornell Store from 8:30 am until 3:30 pm. Full-time staff and faculty Please pick up your free wristband at one of our locations prior to Slope Day. You must present your current Cornell staff/faculty ID. You must be a full-time staff or faculty member to be eligible. Wristbands are available starting Sunday May 8. Staff and faculty do NOT need to reserve their ticket on CampusGroups prior to getting their wristband. Sunday May 8 Monday May 9 Tuesday May 10 North Campus Service Center 12:00 – 10:00 pm 8:00 am – 10:00 pm 8:00 am – 10:00 pm Cascadilla Service Center 12:00 – 5:00 pm 8:00 am – 7:00 pm 8:00 am – 7:00 pm West Campus House Offices CLOSED 9:00 am – 8:00 pm 9:00 am – 8:00 pm Cornell Store CLOSED 8:30 am – 6:00 pm 8:30 am – 6:00 pm Willard Straight Hall 3:00 – 5:00 pm *Kick-off event* 12:00 - 5:00 pm CLOSED Noyes Community Center CLOSED CLOSED 7:00 pm - midnight On Slope Day (Wednesday May 11), any staff or faculty member who has not yet picked up a wristband may do so from one of the four (4) wristband distribution sites from 10:00 am until 3:00 pm. Staff/faculty need to present a valid Cornell ID. Noyes (West) Baker Tower (West) Anabel Taylor Hall (Central) Morrill Hall (Central) Volunteering at Slope Day 🐻 Click Here to sign up to be a Slope Day Volunteer! On Slope Day, approximately 500 volunteers are needed to assist in the operations on and around Libe Slope. Without this help, Slope Day simply would not happen. Volunteers are made up of faculty, staff and students, and they all help out in a variety of ways. You are one of those people, thank you for your interest in helping out! By volunteering, you get a behind the scenes look at the event and all of the effort it takes to run Slope Day, and an awesome t-shirt and branded reusable water bottle as a thank you for your efforts! As an added bonus, if you sign up for two or more shifts (4 or more hours) you can be entered for a chance to win a Nintendo Switch or Cornell Store Gift Cards. Why you should volunteer Why you should volunteer Top 10 Reasons for Students to Volunteer Be part of Cornell’s oldest and greatest tradition. Everyone you know will be there. Build your resume. Experience the alcohol-free magic of SlopeFest. Meet new and exciting people. Free coffee to keep you caffeinated. Get to know CU Police … in a good way. Get in your service hours while having fun. You’ll get a free Slope Day T-Shirt and water bottle! A chance to win some great prizes. Top 10 Reasons for Faculty/Staff to Volunteer Be part of Cornell’s oldest and greatest tradition. Everyone else from your department will be there (really….just ask them!) You’ll get to see your students having the time of their lives! Experience the alcohol-free magic of SlopeFest. Meet new and exciting people. Free coffee to keep you caffeinated. Get to know other faculty and staff from parts of campus you didn’t even know existed. Work on that sun tan. You’ll get a free Slope Day T-Shirt and water bottle! A chance to win some great prizes. Each volunteer will receive: Free meal tickets (if 4 or more hours are worked) Free Slope Day T-Shirt Free Slope Day water bottle Free Slope Day Fanny Pack (if 4 or more hours are worked) Entry into prize raffles Graduate/Professional students will receive their wristband fee back in the form of a Cornell Store gift card For Staff Volunteers: HR and Payroll Information For Staff Volunteers: HR and Payroll Information HR and Payroll Information For Staff Members who Volunteer: A supervisor must approve a staff member’s request to be released from regular duties in order to be reassigned as a volunteer at Slope Day. Given the reassignment, hours spent at Slope Day that coincide with the staff member’s regularly scheduled work hours will be considered time worked and should be recorded in Workday as Regular time. Hours spent volunteering at Slope Day that fall outside of scheduled work hours (and thus are not a reassignment of duties) are unpaid and should not be recorded in Workday. For Staff Members Required to Work: Nonexempt staff members who are required to work the Slope Day event must be paid for all hours worked during the event, even if such hours do not coincide with their regularly scheduled work hours. Such time should be recorded in Workday as Regular time. If you are unsure whether your assignment at Slope Day is a voluntary one (see above paragraph), or a required assignment, please contact either your supervisor, or your college/unit Human Resources representative for clarification. If additional information is needed, you may contact the Division of Human Resources at 255-6894. For Exempt Staff Members: Exempt staff members who provide assistance during Slope Day in either capacity above will receive their usual compensation. About Slope Day 🎶 Slope Day Programming Board Slope Day Programming Board Slope Day '21-'22 Executive Board Christy Atangana - Executive Director Miles Greenblatt - Artist Selections and Relations Director Britney Rivera-Martinez - Slope Fest Director Jack Ghirardi - Promotions Director James Lepone & Michael Hamilton - Volunteer Directors Yancee Mendoza - Finance Director Maia Lee - Recruitment Director General Body Members: Peter McManus Rachel Friedland Riya Agarwal Gaby Castro Kadijat Alakiu Margot Baker Ami Adachi Ariella Hajibay-Piranesi Maya Lerner History of Slope Day History of Slope Day There is a long history of a spring-time gathering here at Cornell University. While this event has taken many shapes over the past century, one common thread persists: celebration. Today, the event we affectionately call "Slope Day" inherits a proud century-long tradition as a year-end gathering and celebration of the Cornell Community. From The Beginning... 1901 The first recorded "Spring Day" takes place. Spring Day was a celebration of the end of winter and imminent warm weather. This tradition continued for the next half century. Over the years, Spring Day was comprised of events ranging from variety shows to circuses. One year there was a mock bullfight; another year students, staff, faculty and guests enjoyed the Fraternity Float parade. While many of these events took place at and were centered around the University's open spaces (including Libe Slope), there were many activities that took place indoors, as well as off campus. 1960 Protests and unrest plagued the University. There was little time and place for any celebration during these years. In addition to nationwide protests and civic discord, many minimum legal drinking age restrictions were lifted. During this time many states began lowering their minimum legal drinking age (MLDA) from their post-prohibition high of twenty one. 1979 Cornell Dining sponsored a barbeque on Libe Slope on the last day of classes and Spring Fest was born. This so-known "Great Feast" started in the afternoon, and was centered on a big chicken barbeque and live music. New York State's MLDA of eighteen made it possible for alcohol to be served at Spring Fest, as most Cornell students were over eighteen by the end of the school year. 1984 The federal government passed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984, mandating that all states had two years to increase their MLDA to 21 or lose Federal-aid highway funding. New York changed their MLDA because of this act, and so the university's alcohol policy was changed to reflect the change in state law. 1987 Robert Cray band performed at Spring Fest, sponsored by the Cornell Concert Commission. 1988 Spring Fest was cancelled! After too many students admitted to Gannett the year before, the university decided to not hire a musical act. 1989 In the face of these legal changes and the public sentiment that precipitated it, it was no longer feasible for the university to allow the event. Students formed the Springfest Coordinating Committee to promote safe drinking habits and to provide alcohol-free activities as an alternative to drinking. Slope Day, as it came to be called, became an informal gathering of students on university property. During that time, the focus of Slope Day shifted from food, music and celebration to widespread and uncontrolled alcohol consumption. 1993 An organization, known as SOS, was created in order for students, staff, and faculty to provide a "positive presence" on Slope Day. Now known as the Slope Day Volunteer Committee, these volunteers operate as a subcommittee of the Slope Day Programming Board, and fulfill vital roles in the event from working to ensure the safety of those attending, to manning the gates, fence, and checkpoints, distributing water, and keeping the Slope clean. Without student and staff volunteers in their brightly colored t-shirts, Slope Day couldn't happen! 1999 Student opinion surrounding the future of the event began to shift, as evidenced by the creation of SlopeFest, a non-alcoholic activity-based event featuring carnival-type games and rides, live music, free giveaways, and other attractions. SlopeFest, taking place on West Campus, was meant to accompany Slope Day and accommodate students during times when they weren't drinking as well as provide an alcohol-free environment for students desiring one. 2001 Hunter R. Rawlings III, then president of Cornell University, issued a charge to the President's Council on Alcohol and Other Drugs to assemble a group of staff, faculty and students to critically assess and address the role that alcohol and other drugs (AOD) played on Slope Day. This group became known as the Slope Day Steering Committee. 2002 The Steering Committee began to undertake corrective measures to address the alcohol related issues surrounding Slope Day, including moving the concert back onto the slope. 2003 A new and improved Slope Day was created by a Steering Committee of students, faculty, and staff. Live entertainment (Rusted Root and Fat Joe) brought to the Slope, catered food and alcohol service from Cornell Dining, and giveaways became a part of the celebration as well. A student-administration partnership was created, one where students would take the lead in planning and organizing programming and direction for the day. The Slope Day Programming Board was created and funded by the Student Assembly to organize the event and bring bigger and better entertainment to the day. 2004 The celebration continued, with performances by Kanye West and OAR, the return of SlopeFest, and record crowds in attendance. 2005 The Slope Day Programming Board brought The Starting Line, The Game and Snoop Dogg. The bands played for record crowds and Slope Day was a huge success! 2006 Once again, Slope Day was a lot of fun for all, featuring Ben Folds and Talib Kweli with special guest Acceptance. SlopeFest was moved from West Campus to Ho Plaza. 2007 T.I. with special guests TV on the Radio and Catch 22 took the stage and slope by storm. New additions to SlopeFest made it a larger hit than ever before. Prizes were raffled off to winners of certain carnival games before the music began. 2008 Gym Class Heroes brought local flair to the Slope with energetic openers Ted Leo and the Pharmacists and Hot Hot Heat. Even the rain could not keep students from celebrating the end of the semester. Libe Slope became greener with Cornell Dining's switch to biodegradable products (including corn plastic cups). 2009 The Pussycat Dolls took command of the stage as the first all-female act for Slope Day. Openers the Apples in Stereo and Asher Roth pumped the crowds for the main act as neither the threat of rain nor recession could prevent this Slope Day from being enjoyed by the huge audience that attended. 2010 In the Campus Consciousness Tour, Drake headlined with a message of sustainability to a welcoming crowd. The audience was warmed up by the beautiful weather and by openers Francis and the Lights and k-os. 2011 Grammy Award winning hip-hop artist Nelly made sure Slope Day wasn't just a dream for Cornellians. Excellent weather and openers Ra Ra Riot and The Cool Kids brought everyone out to the Slope early to spend time with friends and celebrate the end of another great year. 2012 International star Taio Cruz lit up the Slope like it was dynamite. Supporting artists Neon Trees and The Wailers brought record early crowds out to enjoy the perfect weather and celebrate with the Cornell community. 2013 Hip-hop artist Kendrick Lamar headlined Slope Day. Supporting artists included DJ 5 & A Dime and Hoodie Allen. 2014 Ludacris headlined Slope Day with performances by Matt and Kim and 3Lau. 2015 Slope Day was headlined by Chance the Rapper with supporting performances by artists Salva and Magic! 2016 Cash Cash and Walk The Moon took the stage, supported by R-City. 2017 Misterwives and Big Gigantic performed at Slope Day in 2017, supported by Brasstracks + S'Natra. 2018 Galantis, Young Bombs, and Dreezy rocked Slope Day 2018. 2019 Steve Aoki headlined Slope Day with supporting performances from Cousin Stizz and Ezi. 2020 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Slope Day, in collaboration with Cornel Concert Commission and Multicultural Concert Funding Advisory Board, held its first Virtual Slope Day festival spanning over two days. Performances include Swae Lee, Rico Nasty, KYLE, and Matoma. 2021 2021 Virtual Slope Day returned as a two-day event. On night 1, Last Dinosaurs headlined with supporting artists from PREP and MICHELLE. One night 2, there were performances from Ari Lennox, who was the first solo female artist to headline Slope Day, and rap artists Smino and EARTHGANG. Archived Announcements All attendees must have acquired a Slope Day wristband -- this acts as your entry ticket to Slope Day along with your Cornell ID. You can pick up a wristband starting May 8th from a distribution site (info below). Wristbands are not transferrable or replaceable under any circumstances. When you pick up your wristband, a volunteer will put it on your wrist and it must stay on until after Slope Day. Removing the wristband will shred the fabric, making it unusable. Food pre-sale tickets available NOW at Okenshield's! Stop by to get your tickets and skip the lines at Slope Day! Alternative Slope Day at Hoffman Challenge Course is a FREE off-campus opportunity on May 11. There is space for 150 students. Reserve your free ticket on CampusGroups starting May 4 at noon! We are looking for volunteers to help with Slope Day! Students, staff, and faculty can all help make this event come to life. Click Here to Sign Up as a Slope Day Volunteer! Additional details below. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.