Skip to content SLS-France Program Main Menu Home About The Program Courses Campus Cost Student Experiences FAQ Blog Info Sessions APPLY CONTACT US Search Search for: Search Home SLS FRENCH IMMERSION PROGRAM AT GEORGIA TECH-LORRAINE SERVE Interact with the locals in Metz, France through service-learning projects that encourage true French language immersion and community action. Engage in projects that make a difference. LEARN Start with two core courses – one classroom-based and one community-based, then personalize the experience with your choice of two targeted electives to round out the curriculum while immersed in French language and culture. SUSTAIN Focus on the region’s sustainability efforts including the fight against climate change, the preservation of the region’s biodiversity and natural resources, and improving the quality of life for the city’s inhabitants. Serve-Learn-Sustain at Georgia Tech-Lorraine Search for: Search ATTEND AN INFO SESSION! RECENT BLOG POSTS Weeks 12-13: Savannah’s Final Blog Weeks 10-11 Blog: Ecological Adventures Week 8-9 Blog: Planting Trees and Posing with Piles of Compost Week 7 Blog: A Lovely Day in Strasbourg Week 6 Blog: The Posing Chickens and Nuclear Waste Testimonials https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GuKUkdbXuA The city of Metz hosted the meeting of G7 Environment Ministers in May 2019 Metz – ville du festival du cinéma écologique Cinématerre https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b6gmxCdmsRw La Lorraine https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBmNSOL4S5U Gallery International Film Festival CinéMaTerre Cattenom Nuclear Plant Morsbach Methanation Unit Haganis Water Treatment Facility Rombas Waste Sorting Facility Épluchures et Bicyclette – MOTRIS Metz à Vélo Sikle – Les Composteurs de Strasbourg Strasbourg City Traffic Regulation Office Zero Waste Workshop Parks and River Clean Up Equality in Diversity Unesco Workshop Subscribe by Email Never miss a blog post! Subscribe now! Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Facebook Instagram Twitter Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology