Menu Our Work Our Projects Awards Press Annual Reports Publications + Resources PID Fellowship Booklets Our Story Our Story Our History Our Process Our Team Leadership Collaborators Supporters Faculty Students Participate Student Opportunities Application Process News Events FAQs Contact Us Donate How did the 2021 Summer Fellows complete 4 projects in 5 weeks? See the projects, learn about partners and process below. View the news Our abolition-centric design/build project 'Prisoner's Apothecarts' was completed during the 2020 pandemic. Wanna know how we did it? View the project Small Center was featured in "Changing the Narrative" the a Rudy Bruner Award publication. Parisite Skatepark's case study feature highlights DIY public space creation. View the attachment The RAE House, A safe homegoing for exonerees View our work with Resurrection After Exoneration on "The RAE House" Visioning Project View the news Art, Water and Dialogue combine at DEPART-MENT Kick-Off The DEPART-MENT opening reception was a blast! See ways you can participate... View the news Parisite Skatepark named Silver Medalist for 2019 Rudy Bruner Award for Urban Excellence Parisite Skatepark won a 2019 Rudy Bruner Award Silver Medal! What an honor! View the news Find out how you can contribute to the next generation of public interest designers Support the Small Center View the page Public Interest Design and Education As the Tulane School of Architecture’s community design center, Small Center brings together creative makers and doers working for a better city. We advance community-driven ideas through collaboration, design education and scrappy problem-solving. We work with a variety of nonprofit organizations and community groups to provide design services to communities who are consistently underserved by our field. How to Apply Our Recent Projects See All Sugar Roots Farm Outdoor Classroom Lafreniere Neighborhood Revitalization Study Prisoner’s Apothecarts Groundwork Earth Lab Recent News See All April 27, 2022 Small Projects, Big Impact. Our 2022 WaveStarter Campaign Is Live! From April 25th - May 9th, you can support Small Center's next design + build project. 2022 WAvestarter Campaign is live! Read More March 07, 2022 2022 Request for Proposals Now Open! Deadline to submit is April 1, 2022 We’re happy to announce that our 2022 Request for Proposals is now open! Read More July 14, 2021 2021 Summer Fellows provide research and design for four Greater New Orleans nonprofits What happens when six students work for five weeks to develop design solutions with four community partners? Design magic, thats what. Read More Keep up to date with all of the Small Center's opportunities through our email list.Join Our Mailing List Name First Last Email Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ (504) 314 2330. baronne@tulane.edu 1725 Baronne Street New Orleans, LA 70113 Monday–Friday 9:00AM–5:00PM