Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Smerdon Climate Lab Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded People Publications Data and Projects Teaching and Outreach News and Events Journal Articles Book Radio and Podcasts Videos Outreach Lectures Programs and Courses Smerdon Climate Lab You are here: People Jason E. Smerdon Jason E. Smerdon Principal Investigator Profile Prof. Jason E. Smerdon is a Lamont Research Professor at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University. He also holds appointments at Columbia University as an Earth Institute Faculty Member and as Co-Director of the Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development. He teaches courses on climate, environmental change and sustainable development to undergraduate and graduate students. Smerdon also lectures widely in public and private settings on the subject of climate change and its social dimensions. Smerdon’s research focuses on climate variability and change during the past several millennia and how past climates can help us understand future climate change. He publishes widely in the scientific literature on paleoclimate reconstruction techniques, the dynamics of past climate change and variability, and on assessing climate model simulations of the past and future using paleoclimatic information. In 2013, Smerdon served as a Contributing Author to Assessment Report Five (WG1) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. He is co-author (with Ed Mathez) of the textbook Climate Change: The Science of Global Warming and Our Energy Future (Columbia University Press, September 2018). Smerdon received his B.A. in physics from Gustavus Adolphus College and his Ph.D. in applied physics from the University of Michigan. See also Smerdon's 2013 Earth Institute Faculty Profile at the State of the Planet Blog. Fields of interest: Common-Era Paleoclimatology, Climate Modeling, Statistical Climatology, Climate Variability and Change Education Ph.D., Applied Physics, University of Michigan, 2004 M.S., Physics, University of Michigan, 2000 B.A., Physics Major, Gustavus Adolphus College, 1998 Disciplines Primary Discipline: Paleoclimate Secondary Discipline: Modern and Future Climate Other Disciplines: Atmospheric Science Educational Activities Co-Director of the Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development Text Book: Climate Change: The Science of Global Warming and Our Energy Future Jason E. Smerdon Lamont Research Professor, Co-Director Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development Google Scholar My Contact Info Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 61 Route 9W, P.O. Box 100, Palisades, NY 10964 (845) 365-8493 [email protected] Download Curriculum Vitae Columbia Affiliations Lamont-Doherty Earth Obervatory The Earth Institute Ocean and Climate Physics Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory205D Oceanography 61 Route 9W, PO Box 1000 · Palisades, NY 10964 Earth InstituteHogan Hall B-102 · New York, NY 10025 Phone (845) 365-8493 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close