Center for Statistics and Machine Learning Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu Director's Message News Events Submenu Upcoming Seminars ML for the Sciences Calendar Video Library CSML Diversity Statement Open Positions Submenu SML201 AI SML310 AI SML515 Graduate Course Assistant Lecturer Contact Newsletter Sign Up People Undergraduate Submenu SML 201 — Introduction to Data Science SML 310 — Research Projects in Data Science Certificate Program Submenu Requirements and Enrollment Independent Work Information FAQs Princeton Data Science (Club) Undergraduate Resources SML Undergraduate Certificate Course Table Graduate Submenu SML 505 — Modern Statistics SML 510 — Graduate Research Seminar Certificate Program Submenu Requirements and Enrollment Preparation SML201 AI Opportunity SML310 AI Opportunity SML Graduate Certificate Course Table Reading Group DataX Submenu DataX Research and Impact DataX Workshop Series Submenu Synthetic Control Methods Submenu Participants Registration Workshop Agenda Past Events Submenu Tutorial Workshop on Machine Learning for Experimental Science Submenu Agenda Registration Speakers Bridging the Gap Between Your Laptop and Cloud Computing Best Practices in Python Packaging DataX People DataX Video Library DataX Opportunities Submenu Call for DataX Research Proposals Contact Us Log in Search Search Center for Statistics and Machine Learning The Center for Statistics and Machine Learning is located at 26 Prospect Avenue. Read more here. Read about and watch the videos here. Read more here. Read more about this research at this link. Learn more here. Learn more here. Learn more here. 1 / 8 Previous image ◀︎ Next image ▶︎ Featured News Projects from CSML students showcase innovative thinking and diversity of disciplines May 23, 2022 Author Written by Sharon Adarlo The Center for Statistics and Machine Learning held its annual undergraduate poster session earlier this month. Hosted virtually, 124 students participated in the event and hailed from 13 departments and centers, including African American Studies, chemical and biological engineering, and ecology, just to name a few. CSML feted the poster session participants with a celebratory in-person event on May 12th. The students' projects are a key component of CSML's Undergraduate Certificate Program in Statistics and Machine Learning. A requirement of the program is an independent project that significantly incorporates data science. Featured Event Synthetic Control Methods Thu, Jun 2, 2022 Synthetic controls are widely applied to estimate the effects of policy interventions and other treatments of interests. The DataX Workshop on synthetic control methods seeks to provide an introduction to synthetic control methods for non-experts as well as an opportunity for researchers working on synthetic control methods to communicate new… Open Positions Data Scientist Positions Available at Princeton June 12, 2020 Do you have a strong background in scientific programming, academic research, and are eager to contribute to groundbreaking research? Do you love to write code and analyze data? Then please consider joining our growing team of data scientists! Princeton University is building a community of data scientists to work in partnership… Latest News DataX workshop held for researchers who want to incorporate data science and machine learning into their work A two-day DataX workshop that covered a wide range of scientific topics, from Bayesian inference techniques to looking at machine learning in the context of the larger world, was held from May 13th to the 14th at Princeton University’s Friends Center. According to its organizers, the event, “Tutorial Workshop on Machine Learning for Experimental Science,” was meant to disseminate current topics and techniques in the field so that scholars may advance their research. Peter Ramadge, CSML director, recognized for outstanding teaching along with three faculty members The detailed lecture notes that Ramadge distributes every week are legendary. They have proved to be indispensable to the many students who have taken his courses over the years since Ramadge, whose scholarship focuses on signal processing and machine learning, joined the faculty in 1984. Projects from CSML students showcase innovative thinking and diversity of disciplines The Center for Statistics and Machine Learning held its annual undergraduate poster session earlier this month. Hosted virtually, 124 students participated in the event and hailed from 13 departments and centers, including African American Studies, chemical and biological engineering, and ecology, just to name a few. CSML feted the poster session participants with a celebratory in-person event on May 12th. The students' projects are a key component of CSML's Undergraduate Certificate Program in Statistics and Machine Learning. A requirement of the program is an independent project that significantly incorporates data science. Videos: DataX Data Scientists Discuss their Role and Impact in Research Data scientists Brain Arnold and Jose Garrido Torres, supported by the Schmidt DataX Initiative, are featured in a new series of videos talking about their role and impact in research with Princeton University scholars. View All News Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (COVID-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities. The latest guidance for Princeton members and visitors is available on the University’s Emergency Management website. Upcoming Events Synthetic Control Methods Thu, Jun 2, 2022 Synthetic controls are widely applied to estimate the effects of policy interventions and other treatments of interests. The DataX Workshop on synthetic control methods seeks to provide an introduction to synthetic control methods for non-experts as well as an opportunity for researchers working on synthetic control methods to communicate new… Princeton Machine Learning Theory Summer School 2022 Mon, Jun 13, 2022, 8:00 am The school will run in person June 13 to June 17, 2022 and is aimed at PhD students interested in machine learning theory. The primary goal is to showcase, through four main courses, a range of exciting recent developments in the subject. The primary focus this year is on theoretical advances in deep learning. An… View All Events Footer Center for Statistics and Machine Learning 26 Prospect Ave Princeton, NJ 08544 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University