Center for Statistics and Machine Learning Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu Director's Message News Events Submenu Upcoming Seminars ML for the Sciences Calendar Video Library CSML Diversity Statement Open Positions Submenu SML201 AI SML310 AI SML515 Graduate Course Assistant Lecturer Contact Newsletter Sign Up People Undergraduate Submenu SML 201 — Introduction to Data Science SML 310 — Research Projects in Data Science Certificate Program Submenu Requirements and Enrollment Independent Work Information FAQs Princeton Data Science (Club) Undergraduate Resources SML Undergraduate Certificate Course Table Graduate Submenu SML 505 — Modern Statistics SML 510 — Graduate Research Seminar Certificate Program Submenu Requirements and Enrollment Preparation SML201 AI Opportunity SML310 AI Opportunity SML Graduate Certificate Course Table Reading Group DataX Submenu DataX Research and Impact DataX Workshop Series Submenu Synthetic Control Methods Submenu Participants Registration Workshop Agenda Past Events Submenu Tutorial Workshop on Machine Learning for Experimental Science Submenu Agenda Registration Speakers Bridging the Gap Between Your Laptop and Cloud Computing Best Practices in Python Packaging DataX People DataX Video Library DataX Opportunities Submenu Call for DataX Research Proposals Contact Us Log in Search Search Home Undergraduates Undergraduate Certificate Program Section Menu SML 201 — Introduction to Data Science SML 310 — Research Projects in Data Science Certificate Program Submenu Requirements and Enrollment Independent Work Information FAQs Princeton Data Science (Club) Undergraduate Resources SML Undergraduate Certificate Course Table Undergraduate Certificate Program Example of work from Vinicius Wagner '21 and Hari Raval '21 from the course SML 201. The image displays data visualization that tracks personality types to occupation. Overview The Undergraduate Certificate Program in Statistics and Machine Learning is designed for students, majoring in any department, who have a strong interest in data analysis and its application across disciplines. Statistics and machine learning, the academic disciplines centered around developing and understanding data analysis tools, play an essential role in various scientific fields including biology, engineering and the social sciences. This new field of “data science” is interdisciplinary, merging contributions from a variety of disciplines to address numerous applied problems. Examples of data analysis problems include analyzing massive quantities of text and images, modeling cellular-biological processes, pricing financial assets, evaluating the efficacy of public policy programs, and forecasting election outcomes. In addition to its importance in scientific research and policy making, the study of data analysis comes with its own theoretical challenges, such as the development of methods and algorithms for making reliable inferences from high-dimensional and heterogeneous data. The program provides students with a set of tools required for addressing these emerging challenges. Through the program, students will learn basic theoretical frameworks and also leave them equipped to apply statistics and machine learning methods to many problems of interest. Enrollment to the Program Students are admitted to the program after they have chosen a concentration and submitted an application, generally by the beginning of their junior year. At that time, students must have prepared a tentative plan and timeline for completing all of the requirements of the program, including required courses, independent work (as outlined below), and any prerequisites for the selected courses. For enrollment, please use this form: Certificate Enrollment Application For questions, contact us at smlcert@princeton.edu Program of Study Students are required to take a total of five courses and earn at least a B-, complete the certificate’s independent work requirement, and attend CSML's annual poster session. Course Work: One statistics course from the approved list. Student must receive at least a B- (pdf is not permitted. Credit or exemptions for AP exams is not permitted). One machine learning course from the approved list. Student must receive at least a B- (pdf not permitted). Three electives from the approved list. Student must receive at least a B- (pdf not permitted). Students may count at most two courses from their departmental concentration toward the certificate. With permission, advanced students may be permitted to take approved graduate-level courses. Independent Work and SML Poster Session: Students are required to complete a thesis or at least one semester of independent work in their junior or senior year on a topic that makes substantial application or study of machine learning or statistics. This work may be used to satisfy the requirements of both the SML certificate program and the student's department of concentration. All work will be reviewed by the Statistics and Machine Learning Certificate committee. In May, there will be a public poster session at which students are required to present their work to other students, researchers and to the faculty. Students must adhere to submission due dates for independent work papers and poster requirements. Attendance for the poster session is mandatory. Finally, students are encouraged to attend one of the Statistics and Machine Learning colloquia on campus, including the CSML sponsored or co-sponsored seminars. For a list of required courses that will count towards the certificate, please visit our website (link is external). Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all the program requirements will receive a certificate upon graduation. Certificate Executive Committee Ryan Adams Computer Science/CSML (On Sabbatical for AY21-22) Peter Melchior Acting Director, Undergraduate Certificate Astrophysics/CSML Prateek Mittal ECE John Mulvey ORFE Peter J Ramadge ECE/CSML Marc Ratkovic Politics Mengdi Wang ECE/CSML Certificate Associated Faculty Yacine Ait-Sahalia Economics Amir Ali Ahmadi ORFE Sanjeev Arora Computer Science Matias Cattaneo ORFE Danqi Chen Computer Science Jonathan Cohen Psychology/PNI Jia Deng Computer Science Adji Bousso Dieng COS Barbara Engelhardt Computer Science Jaime Fernández Fisac ECE Filiz Garip Sociology Tom Griffiths Psychology Boris Hanin ORFE Elad Hazan Computer Science Bo Honoré Economics Daisy Huang CSML Niraj Jha ECE Chi Jin ECE Jason Klusowski ORFE Michal Kolesár Economics S.Y. Kung ECE Ching-Yao Lai Geosciences Jason Lee ECE Naomi Leonard MAE Mariangela Lisanti Physics John Londregan Politics/SPIA Anirudha Majumdar MAE Meredith Martin English/CDH Ricardo Masini CSML William Massey ORFE Reed Maxwell High Meadows Environmental Institute/CEE Peter Melchior Acting Director, Undergraduate Certificate Astrophysics/CSML Ulrich Müller Economics Karthik Narasimhan Computer Science Kenneth Norman Psychology/PNI Jonathan Pillow Psychology/PNI Mikkel Plagborg-Moller Economics H. Vincent Poor ECE Yuri Pritykin Genomics Miklos Racz ORFE Ben Raphael Computer Science Olga Russakovsky Computer Science Matthew Salganik Sociology H. Sebastian Seung CS/PNI Amit Singer Mathematics/PACM Mona Singh CS/Genomics Bartolomeo Stellato ORFE Brandon Stewart Sociology John D. Storey Genomics Michael Strauss Astrophysical Sciences Rocío Titiunik Politics Jeroen Tromp Geosciences Olga Troyanskaya CS/Genomics Robert Vanderbei ORFE Mark Watson Economics Yu Xie Sociology/PIIRS Footer Center for Statistics and Machine Learning 26 Prospect Ave Princeton, NJ 08544 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University