Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Tate Lecture Series Lecture Schedule Student Forum Tickets Tickets Ticket Information Order Online Where to Park About the Series About the Series Speaker History Waiting List Sponsors Endowed President’s Scholars Fund Auction Request Guidelines Mailing List Contact Us ☰ For 100 years, SMU has shaped minds, explored frontiers of knowledge and nurtured intellectual entrepreneurship. The Willis M. Tate Distinguished Lecture Series contributes to this mission by bringing thought-provoking and entertaining icons to the SMU campus and Dallas community. Regarded as one of the country’s finest platforms for distinguished and engaging discussions, the Tate Lecture Series provides unique opportunities for student interaction, faculty discourse and community debate with world changers and raises funds for academic scholarships and student programs. Manage Tickets Log In To renew your 2022-23 tickets, click the button above to log in to your account. Please call 214-768-8283 or email tateseries@smu.edu with any questions. Single Event Tickets Individual lecture tickets are now available. Purchase tickets online to individual lectures or call the Tate office at 214-768-8283. SMU reserves the right to substitute speakers or to rearrange the order of the lectures without notice. Subscriptions are nonrefundable. New Patrons Join Waiting List The Tate Lecture Series maintains an extensive waiting list for patrons interested in Tate season tickets. Requests for season tickets from new patrons will be placed on a waiting list and considered in the order in which they are received. To be added to the waiting list, complete your request online, download a form, or call the Tate office at 214-768-8283. Lecture Schedule Buy Tickets All lectures begin at 8 p.m. Tuesday, September 20, 2022 Tom Friedman and Chris Wallace with David Gergen Wednesday, October 19, 2022 Lonnie G. Bunch III Tuesday, October 25, 2022 Chris Urmson Tuesday, November 15, 2022 Tara Stoinski Tuesday, December 6, 2022 Marlee Matlin Tuesday, February 7, 2023 Ian Bremmer Wednesday, March 1, 2023 Jonathan Haidt Tuesday, April 4, 2023 Robert P. George and Cornel West Tuesday, May 2, 2023 Padma Lakshmi Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share