Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search 2fdGnIzSZBE Video Join us to ignite the future As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU shapes future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign – will fuel the bold, the curious and the creative in three ways: Empower outstanding students With your support, we will transform the lives of high-achieving students, enabling them to attend SMU regardless of financial means and apply what they gain on the Hilltop as they change the world. Learn more Enrich teaching and research This is our moment to join the highest rank of universities – to accelerate knowledge and tackle grand challenges. Learn more Enhance campus and community By continuing to strengthen our community engagement, nationally competitive athletics and diverse public programming, we will make a positive difference in Dallas and in communities far beyond the Hilltop. Learn more Blazing a new path To encourage SMU’s grand vision for students, faculty, the campus and the greater community, many donors have stepped up to provide early support for SMU Ignited – including landmark commitments at record-breaking levels. Driving innovation Celebrated energy expert and philanthropist William S. Spears made the largest gift by a non-alumnus in the history of SMU to strengthen entrepreneurial leadership in Dallas and beyond. Game on The Garry Weber Foundation gave $50 million – the largest gift in the history of SMU Athletics – towards an expansion of Ford Stadium, continuing our century-long commitment to competing at the highest levels. Visionary impact SMU received its ﬁrst single-family gift of $50 million from Carolyn L. and David B. Miller ’72, ’73 to transform the future of business education through SMU’s Cox School of Business. Largest gift in SMU history Our ﬁrst-ever $100 million gift – from the Moody Foundation – created SMU’s eighth degree-granting school, the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, which bolsters SMU’s graduate programs and scholarly research for greater impact. Thanks to these gifts and those from tens of thousands of donors, SMU Ignited has commitments well beyond $800 million. Ignited Gifts Give today When you partner with SMU through SMU Ignited, your impact resonates far beyond the Hilltop. Join us at the forefront of this latest Mustang stampede. Make a gift Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search