Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Ways to give Cox School of Business William S. Spears is strengthening entrepreneurial leadership through new Cox School institute William S. Spears is strengthening entrepreneurial leadership through new Cox School institute Driving innovation at SMU, in Dallas and beyond A commitment from celebrated energy expert and philanthropist William S. Spears, the largest gift by a non-alumnus in the history of SMU, will establish the William S. Spears Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership in the SMU Cox School of Business. This new addition to SMU’s $1.5 billion campaign for impact, SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow, will empower students, bolster faculty pursuits and ignite our community for future generations. I’m proud to partner with SMU. I hope that, through this gift, the Cox School will be a positive driver for pioneering innovation and enterprising development across Dallas. — William S. Spears, Founder and CEO of Cenergistic Fueling entrepreneurial impact Leveraging the vibrant culture of free enterprise in North Texas, the William S. Spears Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership will enhance the business ventures of SMU students and faculty and the wider region, support the academic and professional pursuits of students and faculty, and bring to North Texas expertise in the areas critical to the growth and development of the Dallas business community. Expected impact Drive innovation in Dallas by supporting and investing in SMU faculty and students who start businesses. Generate new revenue streams through external partnerships with a variety of organizations and corporations. Spark original ideas by bringing to Dallas experts in business leadership from a wide variety of backgrounds. Bolster the success of outstanding students through financial assistance, practical learning opportunities and expanded internships. Introducing the Spears Institute The Spears Accelerator An academic business accelerator, offering a range of support services and funding opportunities for the conception, creation and development of new businesses, services and products and utilizing external partnerships to strengthen research and development processes and create new revenue streams for the University, benefiting its students, faculty and programs. Spears Entrepreneurial Leadership Program for MBAs and BBAs Unique, specialized curricula, preparing business students to become innovative corporate leaders through real-world experiences and academic coursework in areas such as new product and process development, and the generation of venture capital. Spears Scholars Program Highly competitive scholarships to support meritorious undergraduate and MBA students as they pursue their academic and professional goals in the North Texas business climate and contribute to the future economic vibrancy of the region. Spears Interns Program Key internships, expanding leadership opportunities for SMU Cox students in other global cities and offering unique insights and opportunities for personal and professional growth that will stay with them long after they leave the University. Endowed executive director An endowed leadership position whose experience and business industry insights will be crucial to development of the Spears Institute and its programs, maximizing its impact regionally and nationally. Spears Faculty Fellows Program Fellowships to bolster SMU Cox faculty research initiatives and support the development of innovative curricula and programming. Spears Speaker Series Annual events that feature high-profile leaders and business experts from a variety of personal and professional backgrounds, bringing to Dallas their unique perspectives and insightful knowledge to benefit SMU students, faculty and the broader community. Through the Spears Institute, Dallas and SMU can expand our thriving partnership and make our city an even more dynamic hub for entrepreneurial activity. — Eric Johnson, City of Dallas Mayor About William S. Spears William S. Spears is a renowned civic and financial leader, known throughout the region for his work in the energy sector, the many boards on which he has served and his dedication to excellence in the education field. Introduced to SMU through wife Candye Gould Spears ’06 and stepdaughter Meghan Bartos ’05, both SMU alumni, Spears’ gift to the Edwin L. Cox School of Business builds on a long legacy of philanthropy across the country and a lifelong passion for business excellence that stretches far beyond the University. Learn More Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search