Penn COVID-19 Response About Overview Our Program Our People Our Partners Our Funder Courses Fellowships Overview Fellowship Information Our Fellows Initiatives Overview Red & Blue Exchange Public Interest Technology University Network Engage Overview Perspectives Events The PARK Podcast Opportunities Search for: Get Updates About Overview Our Program Our People Our Partners Our Funder Courses Fellowships Overview Fellowship Information Our Fellows Initiatives Overview Red & Blue Exchange Public Interest Technology University Network Engage Overview Perspectives Events The PARK Podcast Opportunities Get Updates Search for: Educating the whole person How Do I Pronounce Paideia? Integrating Wellness, Service, and Citizenship Through Dialogue παιδεία (Paideia) is an ancient Greek word meant to capture the moral, intellectual, and physical education of an ideal member of the Athenian city-state—that is, “educating the whole person.” It is also translated as “educating citizens,” since they saw private and public lives as inseparable. This vision of education and citizenship was limited to a minority of the population, however. Through the intellectual and financial support of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF), the SNF Paideia Program reimagines a more inclusive and equitable version of this ancient Greek approach to education, serving as a hub for civic dialogue in undergraduate education at Penn. In collaboration with other Penn programs and organizations, SNF Paideia provides curricular and co-curricular opportunities for all students to develop the knowledge, skills, and ethical frameworks necessary to be informed, engaged, and effective community members, and to lead fulfilling and integrated personal, professional, and civic lives. Learn More About Our Program Courses Courses for the holistic student. SNF Paideia designated courses, designed and taught by faculty from all of Penn’s twelve Schools, integrate students’ personal, professional, and civic development. Open to all Penn undergraduates, these courses focus on dialogue, wellness, service, and citizenship from different disciplinary and interdisciplinary perspectives. Learn More Fellowships SNF Paideia Fellows. While individual Paideia courses are designed to be taken by any of Penn’s 10,000 undergraduates, the program also provides a more structured and immersive experience for a select number of SNF Paideia Fellows. Learn More Initiatives Connecting theory and practice. In addition to courses, fellowships, and events, SNF Paideia serves as the home for several co-sponsored initiatives that connect classroom learning with real-world dialogue and public problem-solving. Learn More The Latest from SNF Paideia Blog Integrating Academic, Civic, and Personal Passions through the Fellows Program Spending time between her hometown of Little Rock, AR and her grandparents’ home in Huntsville, AR, Celia Kreth (C’23) grew up experiencing the differences between urban and rural lifestyles. Looking back, she can see how this exposure to divergent cultural views fostered a deep appreciation for history, communication styles, and the impact that specific word choice may have on the outcome of a situation. Read More From the Blog Blog Fostering an understanding of marginalized experiences through the Penn education Justin Acheampong (they/them), C’23 and Favor Idika (they/them), C’23 are members of the Student Committee on Undergraduate Education (SCUE). A branch of student government at Penn, SCUE provides input to the administration on issues that affect undergraduate education and develop projects that are intended to benefit students’ educational experiences. This past year, Justin spearheaded a new marginalized community studies project meant to increase the student body’s understanding and bring awareness to under- or mis-represented communities. As Favor astutely said, “having a basic understanding of how we impact one another by reifying or questioning established institutions of power is crucial to being a productive member of society, regardless of one’s career goals or next steps after graduation.”Read More Event Recap Skillshare: Scholarly Writing & Civic Tech Kaitlyn is the author of “The Public Sector Pivot: How Gen Z Will Lead a Renaissance in Public Service”, which discusses the role of young people in the public sector post-pandemic, and how to improve the public sector talent pipeline for college students. To write her book, Kaitlyn interviewed dozens of passionate people who work in government to tell stories about motivations to enter the public sector and potential areas of growth, such as civic tech.Read More Event Recap Biology & Public Interest: A Fireside Chat The PIT@Penn student group recently held a fireside chat with Dr. Kayla Davis and Dr. George Demiris, who are both work in the intersection between public interest tech and biology. Dr. Davis has been heavily involved in STEM outreach and science policy, while much of Dr. Demiris’ work focuses on research to use tech solutions to address aging related issues.Read More Upcoming Events View All Blog Posts View All Events In the News In the News Hundreds of Muslim students at Penn celebrate Ramadan on campus Hundreds of Muslim students at Penn observed the holy month with community dinners and prayers in the first fully on-campus Ramadan in years.Learn More In the News Engaging in intersectional conversations on race and racism As heated discourse and targeted legislation take hold across the United States on issues from critical race theory, abortion access, and… Learn More In the News What can browser history inadvertently reveal about a person’s health? The Penn-CMU Digital Health Privacy Initiative is trying to answer that question by mapping third-party tracking across the online health ecosystem. Their work shows possible implications for ad targeting, credit scores, insurance coverage, and more.Learn More View All Subscribe for updates Email Address * Apply for a fellowship. Students may apply or be nominated for an SNF Paideia Fellowship in the spring semester of their first year. Applications are due Sunday, February 27. Apply Now College Hall, G05 Philadelphia, PA 19104 Media Center FAQs Contact Us Subscribe for updates Email Address * Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © 2020 SNF Paideia Program Privacy Policy Report accessibility issues and get help Disclaimer back to top