Penn COVID-19 Response About Overview Our Program Our People Our Partners Our Funder Courses Fellowships Overview Fellowship Information Our Fellows Initiatives Overview Red & Blue Exchange Public Interest Technology University Network Engage Overview Perspectives Events The PARK Podcast Opportunities Search for: Get Updates About Overview Our Program Our People Our Partners Our Funder Courses Fellowships Overview Fellowship Information Our Fellows Initiatives Overview Red & Blue Exchange Public Interest Technology University Network Engage Overview Perspectives Events The PARK Podcast Opportunities Get Updates Search for: Courses American Race: A Philadelphia Story ASAM 115 / SAST 115 / URBS 115 / SOCI 115 / LALS 115 American Race: A Philadelphia Story This course proposes an examination of race with a two-pronged approach: one that broadly links the study of race in the United States with a multi-disciplinary approach and also simultaneously situates specific conversations within the immediate location of Philadelphia, home to the University. The broad historical examination advances key concepts of race and racialization, explores theoretical methodologies, and highlights major scholarly works. Instructor(s) Fariha I. Khan Semester Spring 2022 Register Tuesdays/Thursdays, 12 PM – 1:30 PM Students will engage with the study of race through Africana Studies, Asian American Studies, Sociology, Urban Studies and through Latin American & Latinx Studies. Readings and methodologies will introduce students to critical issues in education, in literature, in sociology, and with methods in oral history, archival work, and ethnography. Most importantly, this extensive approach highlights the impact of race across multiple communities including Black Americans, immigrant populations, and communities that are marginalized to emphasize connections, relationships, and shared solidarity. You will be intellectually pushed to see the linkages and the impacts of racism across and among all Americans historically and presently. As each theme is introduced a direct example from Philadelphia will be discussed. The combination of the national discourse on race, with an intimate perspective from the City of Philadelphia, engages students both intellectually and civically. Related Content News Engaging in intersectional conversations on race and racism Blog Fostering an understanding of marginalized experiences through the Penn education Event Race and Faith, with Noelle Warford Event Race and Crime with Taylor Pacheco Event Race and Crime, with Jessie Harper Other Courses of Interest COMM 322-301 History and Theory of Freedom of Expression Instructor(s) Carolyn Marvin Semester Spring 2022 Every society limits speech in significant ways. What are these limits in the United States, why are these the limits, and are they the ones we want? Explore these topics and more. Learn More HIST 239 American Conservatism from Taft to Trump Instructor(s) Brian Rosenwald Semester Spring 2022 We will explore conservatism’s triumphs and failures politically, as well as the cultural changes that have helped, hindered, and shaped its rise. In many ways, this class is a study in the transformation of American politics and in American culture over the last sixty-five years. Its focus is on the hows and the whys of the rise of conservatism from the low point of the early 50s to the rise of the Tea Party and Trumpism in the 2000s and 2010s. Learn More College Hall, G05 Philadelphia, PA 19104 Media Center FAQs Contact Us Subscribe for updates Email Address * Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © 2020 SNF Paideia Program Privacy Policy Report accessibility issues and get help Disclaimer back to top