Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Program Strengths Students in the Community and Regional Planning Master's or PhD Program can customize their curriculum through their choice of electives and by pursuing opportunities to work with faculty on their research. Faculty offer electives that reflect their own interests and often integrate elements of their own research projects. Below we group these interests under five broad headings. We do not use these headings to imply that these areas are independent of each other. As you will see through the descriptions of faculty interests and recent research, there is increasing understanding of the interrelationship between these topics. We offer a formal specialization in one of these areas--Historic Preservation. Social and Economic Equity Environmental Planning Land Use, Transportation and Infrastructure Urban Design and Development Historic Preservation 1. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC EQUITY Faculty contacts: Elizabeth Mueller, Michael Oden, Miriam Solis, Bjørn Sletto and Patricia Wilson. Elective courses and research under the broad heading of social and economic equity offer students a theoretical and practical understanding of the challenges and opportunities facing communities as a result of changing economic and environmental conditions and the role that planners, as well as non-governmental and community organizations, can play in responding to these challenges. While the challenges we face are longstanding, our understanding of how we as planners can shape solutions, and partner with others, is evolving. Practitioners will need to understand the interconnections between economic, social and environmental aspects of cities and communities to devise integrated, creative solutions. Faculty offering electives and practicum courses under this heading do work in both the US context and in other countries--particularly in Latin America. By focusing on electives and practicum courses that emphasize social and economic equity, students can develop expertise in a number of related areas including: Historical context and current debates regarding the challenges and opportunities facing local communities and local responses to economic, social and environmental change; Strategies for working with governments, communities (at different scales) and private sector actors on integrated strategies for goal setting, planning and implementation; Research methods and analytic techniques for documenting and evaluating the structure, performance and potential of regional or local economies; Techniques used in the design, implementation and evaluation of development projects in the United States and in international contexts; Organizational skills including facilitation, team building, conflict resolution, and participatory planning. About the faculty in this focus area Elizabeth Mueller teaches courses on affordable housing policy, community development, and urban politics, as well as qualitative research methods. Her research focuses on social and political inclusion in cities, how city planning and development politics shape the quality of life and opportunities available to historically vulnerable residents and communities. Her current work focuses on these topics through investigations of tensions between the goals and policies of local planning agencies and local housing agencies, as seen in current thinking about strategies for building sustainable cities. Professor Mueller and her students' work is described on the Texas Housing Lab page. Recent projects and practicum courses include Creating Inclusive Corridors: Austin's Airport Boulevard, development of the Corridor Housing Preservation Tool, the Green and Inclusive Corridors practicum, and Coming Home: The benefits of housing choices for low-wage commuters. Her co-authored 2011 Journal of Urbanism article, "Sustainability and Vulnerabliity: Integrating equity into plans for central city redevelopment," won the 2012 UT Coop Prize for Best Research Paper. She was advisor to the first place winning School of Architecture team in US Department of Housing and Urban Affairs' Innovation in Affordable Housing competition. Michael Oden's teaching and research areas include local and regional economic development, regional growth dynamics and regional governance challenges. While serving as Associate Dean and Program Director, he is teaching a core CRP course, Financing Public Services. He intends to return to teaching his elective course, Sustainable Urban Economic Development in Spring 2017. Professor Oden's current research interests include the development of a comprehensive evaluation tool for alternative land use, transportation and housing affordability models; the potential of environmental industry growth for regional and local economic development strategies, and the role of the artistic and cultural industries in urban economies. Recent research projects and publications include: the Sustainable Places Project, the article "Better is Better than More," co-authored with Architecture Professor Michael Benedikt, and his update of "Equity: the Awkward E" in colleague Steven Moore's edited volume, Pragmatic Sustainability. He also co-authored a report on the economics of historic preservation in Texas. Bjørn Sletto's research focuses on indigenous land rights, environmental and social justice, and alternative planning approaches, both in the United States and Latin America. As the director of the Institute of Latin American Studies'(LILLAS) Research Initiative in Participatory Mapping, Bjørn works closely with partner institutions in South America to further international scholarship on representational politics and social justice in vulnerable communities. He is also engaged with research on informality and community development in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, focusing on the role of critical pedagogy for insurgent planning in neoliberal contexts. Bjørn teaches Geographic Information Systesm, environmental and social justice, public space theory, and seminars and studio courses focusing on Latin American planning and development. In his practicum course in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, his students work closely with community leaders, activist organizations and public officials to address environmental and social vulnerability in the informal settlement of Los Platanitos. Recent presentations on his work in Austin and Latin America include the east Austin environmental justice project, and mapping risk and vulnerability in Los Platanitos. For an overview of the work of practicum courses in Los Planatinos over time, take a look at the Cañada project website. Patricia Wilson's research in sustainable community development focuses on individual and social transformation through civic engagement and collaborative action. She uses the methods of appreciative inquiry, social narrative, and participatory action research, and draws upon the theories of communicative action, dialogue and deliberation, and holistic emergent systems. She directs an ongoing action research project on sustainable community development. Dr. Wilson teaches participatory planning and international sustainable social development, along with a freshman signature class on participatory democracy. Recent practicum courses and writing include Mexcio Practicum: participatory action research in the Guadalupe dam watershed, a new course on tactical urbanism, and her recent Planning Forum article, "The Naked Practitioner: Participatory Community Development in Peri-Urban Mexico." 2. ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING Faculty Contacts: Katherine Lieberknecht, Robert Paterson, Miriam Solis, and Bjørn Sletto. Elective courses and research under the broad heading of environmental planning provides students with a grounding in the theoretical and methodological foundations, legal/policy aspects, social justice dimensions, and planning and management techniques used to address some of the most pressing environmental issues facing communities and regions today. Environmental planners play central roles in a diversity of issues that range in scale, including: remediation of individual brownfield sites; city-wide park planning; regional air and water pollution planning; habitat conservation planning; planning for climate change adaptation and mitigation for cities and regions; avoiding and mitigating health impacts from environmental contaminants; and planning for socially and ecologically just communities, cities and regions. Through electives and practicum courses, students trained in this specialization develop a variety of theoretical, organizational and technical skills for effectively addressing the complexity of environmental issues facing communities today. These skills include: identifying and coordinating expertise in scientific and technical areas; developing frameworks for environmental planning related policies; working with communities within different social and cultural contexts; and integrating justice or ethical considerations into environmental planning strategies. About the faculty in this focus area Katherine Lieberknecht's research areas include urban water resources planning, metropolitan-scaled green infrastructure planning, and urban resilience planning. She currently teaches courses on urban agriculture systems, water resources planning, urban ecology, and sustainable land use planning. Dr. Lieberknecht's recent research projects include the Texas Metro Observatory, an analysis of metropolitan water conservation, and a national survey of municipal green infrastructure initiatives. Dr. Lieberknecht is also a member of the faculty leadership team of Planet Texas 2050, a UT Austin grand challenge research initiative. In 2020-2021, Dr. Lieberknecht and Dr. Mueller will be co-teaching a practicum focused the design of social and ecological infrastructure needed to support equitable and successful voluntary coastal relocation programs. Bjørn Sletto's research focuses on indigenous land rights, environmental and social justice, and alternative planning approaches, both in the United States and Latin America. As the director of the Institute of Latin American Studies'(LILLAS) Research Initiative in Participatory Mapping, Bjørn works closely with partner institutions in South America to further international scholarship on representational politics and social justice in vulnerable communities. He is also engaged with research on informality and community development in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, focusing on the role of critical pedagogy for insurgent planning in neoliberal contexts. Bjørn teaches Geographic Information Systems, environmental and social justice, public space theory, and seminars and studio courses focusing on Latin American planning and development. In his practicum course in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, his students work closely with community leaders, activist organizations and public officials to address environmental and social vulnerability in the informal settlement of Los Platanitos. Recent presentations on his work in Austin and Latin America include the east Austin environmental justice project, and mapping risk and vulnerability in Los Platanitos. For an overview of the work of practicum courses in Los Planatinos over time, take a look at the Cañada project website. 3. LAND USE, TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Faculty contacts: Alex Karner, Katherine Lieberknecht, Robert Paterson, Gian-Claudia Sciara, Ming Zhang The electives and practicum courses under the broad heading of land use, transportation and intrastructure are designed to provide students with an understanding of theories, methods and techniques for integrated land use, transportation and infrastructure planning and policy-making. Students are encouraged to approach these issues from a critical perspective and to consider questions such as: What are the critical land use, transportation and infrastructure issues facing our communities? What sorts of goals do conventional methods or analysis and analytic techniques promote? Where and how should these methods and techniques be improved? What are the implications -- social, economic, environmental -- of our choices about land use, transportation, and infrastructure policies and investments? Students focusing on these topics have found jobs with cities, counties, metropolitan planning organizations, transit agencies, non-profit organizations, and private consultants. About the faculty in this focus area Alex Karner's work aims to quantify the social equity, environmental, and public health implications of transportation projects and plans by using emerging data sources and developing new, open source methods. A deep commitment to practice undergirds his research and teaching; he routinely collaborates with community members, non-profit organizations and public interest law firms to identify pressing research needs and improve conditions in communities experiencing transportation disadvantage. Some of his recent projects include analyzing realtime transit arrival data to understand disparities in service provision across metropolitan regions in the United States, developing high resolution indicators of public transit accessibility based on public census data and open source approaches, and tying underperformance on affordable housing provision to indicators of poor transportation performance. Katherine Lieberknecht's research areas include urban water resources planning, metropolitan-scaled green infrastructure planning, and urban resilience planning. She currently teaches courses on urban agriculture systems, water resources planning, urban ecology, and sustainable land use planning. Dr. Lieberknecht's recent research projects include the Texas Metro Observatory, an analysis of metropolitan water conservation, and a national survey of municipal green infrastructure initiatives. Dr. Lieberknecht is also a member of the faculty leadership team of Planet Texas 2050, a UT Austin grand challenge research initiative. In 2020-2021, Dr. Lieberknecht and Dr. Mueller will be co-teaching a practicum focused the design of social and ecological infrastructure needed to support equitable and successful voluntary coastal relocation programs. Robert Paterson specializes in land use and environmental planning. He teaches graduate level courses in Sustainable Land Use Planning, Environmental Impact Assessment, Sustainable and Disaster Resilient City Planning, and Plan Implementation. Dr. Paterson’s three most recent research projects are focused on better metrics for Scenario Planning for Sustainable Communities, Scenario Planning for Disaster Resilience, and Plan Implementation theory and practice. Recent practicum courses and research projects include the Sustainable Places Project, Project Connect, the Urban Information Lab, City of Hutto activity center planning, and Sustainable Buildings and Communities: Climate change and the Case for Federal Standards. Gian-Claudia Sciara researches and writes about transportation and land use decision-making in intergovernmental contexts, and regional institutions are a longstanding focus of her work. Her current research studies implementation of California’s Sustainable Communities and Climate Protection Act of 2008 (SB 375), which asks regional planning organizations to integrate land use and transportation in order to reduce auto reliance and greenhouse gas emissions. She is also examining how transportation funding structures support or undermine sustainability objectives. Recent research projects include Tracking Land Use Changes that Support Sustainable Mobility and Statewide Advanced Mitigation Funding and Financial Strategies. Ming Zhang's research and teaching interests include urban transportation planning, transportation impacts on land use, urban form and travel behavior, GIS applications in urban and transportation planning, and land use/transportation issues in developing countries. His recent research has focused on the influence of the built environment on travel mode choice for work and non-work purposes, development of metrics of urban form, Transit-Oriented Development and high-speed rail and urban spatial development. Dr. Zhang is principal investigator for the five-year multi-million dollar Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions project. Other recent practicum courses and research projects include Sustainable Transportation in the International Context – China Planning Workshop, Emerging Trends of Interregional Commute in Mega-Regions: Evidence from NHTSEmerging Trends of Interregional Commute in Mega-Regions: Evidence from NHTS, the Sustainable Places Project, and Project Connect. 4. URBAN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT Faculty Contact: Dean Almy, Junfeng Jiao, Ming Zhang, Michael Holleran, Jake Wegmann The land development and urban design focus area provides students with specialized training and prepares them to become capable of engaging effectively with design professionals (such as architects and landscape designers), developers, and institutions around issues of real estate development, urban form and design. Students will develop an understanding of how land development policies and urban design interventions can alter the human built environment. Students in this specialization learn to delineate the legal, regulatory, economic, and social context within which real estate development and physical design can occur. Students will also be exposed to concepts and approaches used by designers in the processes of place making, and will learn to develop plans and policies that support good land development and urban design. Study of land development and urban design is especially well suited for two types of students: Those who are interested in public sector employment with regard to the policy and practice of the land development regulatory review process; urban design review and design guideline development and implementation process. Those who are interested in private sector development of land with regard to the practice of the real estate marketing and development process; urban design master planning process. Most of the built environment results from the activities of the public and private sectors with regard to land development and urban design, and this specialization prepares the graduate to participate professionally in those activities. About the faculty in this focus area Dean Almy is the Director of the Graduate Program in Urban Design and The Texas Urban Futures Laboratory. He is also Chair of the City of Austin’s Design Commission and the Texas Society of Architects, Urban Design Committee. Professor Almy focuses his teaching and research on the relationships between housing, urbanism and landscape infrastructure. As Director of the Texas Urban Futures Lab, an applied research initiative of the Graduate Program in Urban Design, professor Almy leads students in projects that address issues of densification in the Texas Triangle. Recent practicum courses and research projects include the Austin Urban Futures Lab, Mixed-Use Development on South Lamar, Texas CityLab urban design studio, Austin South Shore Design, and Ciudades Integrales para Tamaulipas: Best Practices for Urban Planning and Design for the Tamaulipas Border Region. Junfeng Jiao's primary interest is in urban form and environment. He wants to understand how people react and reflect the built environments where they live, work, and play. He has investigated the relationship between food/built environment and obesity, built environment and grocery shopping travel, the identification of food deserts, and how people reflected urban spaces on Twitter during a Super Bowl week. He also interests in using different techniques to represent and quantify urban form. These techniques include Big Data Analysis, GIS, GPS, 3D Modeling, Social Media, and Statistics. Recent practicum courses and research projects include the Urban Information Lab, Austin Food Access, Identifying Transit Deserts in Texas Cities, Austin South Central Waterfront District planning studio, Web Scraping and Airbnb Rentals in Austin, Boston, Chicago, D.C., and San Francisco, and the Beijing planning studio. Michael Holleran is interested in historic preservation, the history of urban design & development, vernacular landscapes, and water history. He teaches Preservation Planning/Practice and Preservation History and Theory. Recent practicum courses and research projects include the Cedar Pass Developed Area cultural landscape studio, Austin Historical Survey Wiki, the Leander Texas ‘Placemaking’ Historical Assets Inventory, and the Fifth Street Project. Jake Wegmann’s research lies at the nexus of housing, real estate development, and planning. He has published research on the racialized restructuring of metropolitan space, microhousing infill, and the measurement of affordable rental housing cost efficiency in Urban Geography, Journal of Urbanism, and Housing Policy Debate. Recent practicum courses and research projects include Strategies to Help Homeowners Finance ADUs in Austin and Web Scraping and Airbnb Rentals in Austin, Boston, Chicago, D.C., and San Francisco. Ming Zhang's research and teaching interests include urban transportation planning, transportation impacts on land use, urban form and travel behavior, GIS applications in urban and transportation planning, and land use/transportation issues in developing countries. His recent research has focused on the influence of the built environment on travel mode choice for work and non-work purposes, development of metrics of urban form, Transit-Oriented Development and high-speed rail and urban spatial development. Dr. Zhang is principal investigator for the five-year multi-million dollar Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions project. Other recent practicum courses and research projects include Sustainable Transportation in the International Context – China Planning Workshop, Emerging Trends of Interregional Commute in Mega-Regions: Evidence from NHTS, the Sustainable Places Project, and Project Connect. 5.HISTORIC PRESERVATION Faculty Contacts: Michael Holleran, Sarah Lopez This specialization provides students with the tools and skills appropriate for planning in communities and contexts where we find cultural value in the existing built environment. Students are expected to take four preservation courses (see below), and to complete a preservation studio and a PR or thesis on a preservation topic. Through the classes, students are exposed to social, political, environmental and economic issues in the identification and interpretation of cultural resources; historic preservation as an engine of economic and community development (heritage tourism, Main Street programs, incentives for adaptive use and housing rehabilitation); the regulatory and legal environment at the federal, state and local levels; and policy and design issues involved with integration of new development within existing built contexts. Coursework is supported by the rich stock of diverse cultural resources found in Texas. Students also have numerous opportunities to engage in research or coursework in international settings, as exemplified by recent projects in Mexico, Chile, Berlin, and London. Other resources include the School's significant architectural and planning documents collection, the Architectural Conservation Laboratory and Materials Laboratory, and collaborations with the National Parks Service, the State Historic Preservation Office, and the City of Austin. Recent PRs and theses have studied: the National Register's treatment of resources less than 50 years old; implementation of the new Investment Tax Credit for historic rehabilitation in Texas; Evaluation of the LEED/NC standards as applied to historic neighborhoods; Cultural Landscape Inventories for the LBJ National Historical Site, Heritage Planning for the Route of the Liberator Simón Bolivar. Methods requirements: Students in this specialization are required to take the following methods courses: the Quantitative/Analytic methods sequence (unless placing out); Public Economics and Finance; and either Participatory Planning/Dispute Resolution or GIS/Viscom. Required Courses for Historic Preservation Specialization: CRP 392C/ ARC 386M Preservation History and Theory (Holleran, Fall) CRP 389C/ARC 386M Preservation Planning and Practice (Holleran, Fall) CRP 381 Preservation Law (Rawlins, Spring) CRP 398R or CRP 698A/B PR or Thesis (see below) CRP 696 Preservation Studio (see below) (Note that two required courses are scheduled in Fall semester, and thus CRP/HP specialization will ordinarily require taking one of them in Fall of year 1) and at least one of: National Register Documentation (Smith, Fall) Sustainable Preservation (Holleran, Spring) U.S. Cultural Landscapes (Lopez) (other special topics courses from time to time) Professional Report or Thesis Requirement: CRP 398R Professional Report or CRP 698A/698B-Thesis. The topic of the Professional Report or Thesis must be approved by CRP/HP faculty and should focus on a preservation planning related issue. Preservation Studio requirement: The CRP Practicum/Studio requirement must be met with a Preservation Studio. A Preservation Studio will be offered each semester with a CRP cross-listing, or a CRP studio will be available with preservation content. About the faculty in this specialization Michael Holleran is interested in historic preservation, the history of urban design & development, vernacular landscapes, and water history. He teaches Preservation Planning/Practice and Preservation History and Theory. Recent practicum courses and research projects include the Cedar Pass Developed Area cultural landscape studio, Austin Historical Survey Wiki, the Leander Texas ‘Placemaking’ Historical Assets Inventory, and the Fifth Street Project. Sarah Lopez is a built environment historian, as well as a migration scholar. Lopez' research focuses on the impact of migrant remittances—dollars earned in the U.S. and sent to families and communities in Mexico—on the architecture and landscape of rural Mexico and urban USA. By approaching architectural history within the context of migration, Lopez examines multiple sites across international borders, arguing that we must examine the spatial and built environment histories of discrete places simultaneously. Broadly speaking, she teaches about U.S. cultural landscapes, the interface between migration, architecture, and cities, the use of interdisciplinary methods to study space and society, and world architectural history. She also teaches about how to incorporate ethnographic methods into built environment research. Recent practicum courses and research projects include States of Incarceration and the Remittance Landscape. China_Beijing urban planning museum.jpg CRP students visit Beijing urban planning museum Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Dual Degree and Certificate Programs PhD program Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat