Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search CRP/LA Alumni Alexandra Magaly Lamina Luguana (MA/MSCRP 2017) Alexandra, an Ecuadorian Geographer and Environmental Engineer, received her Bachelor of Science in Environmental Studies at the Technical Particular University of Loja, Ecuador (UTPL). Before attending UT-Austin, Alexandra was Senior Policy Advisor for Biodiversity and Indigenous Peoples in the Ecuadorian Amazon Region, Manager of the Center of Ethnogeography at The Kichwa Indigenous Coordination, and Community and Regional Planner for the Ecuadorian Institute for the Development of the Amazonian Region (ECORAE). Her work with the Kichwas from Napo and Pastaza in the Amazon region inspired her interest in indigenous geographies and indigenous planning and her commitment to social, spatial, and environmental justice. She is currently pursuing a doctoral degree in Latin American Studies at UT-Austin, researching Amazonian urban geographies from indigenous epistemological traditions and drawing on feminist, indigenous, and decolonial thinking in geography and planning. Allison Phillips (MA/MSCRP 2007) Allison, who calls New Mexico home, earned a B.A. in biology from the University of Oregon in 1997. From 2001-2003, Allison traveled and worked in South America where she conducted ecological research in the Ecuadorian cloud forest as well as taught English in Cuzco, Peru and the Galapagos Islands in Ecuador. During her studies at the University of Texas at Austin, Allison focused on urban development, public space, and sustainability in Brazil. She is now working as a planner at SvR Design Company on projects related to bicycle facility design and low impact development in the Seattle metropolitan area. She hopes to work in the future on similar projects in Brazil. Caroline Daigle (MA/MSCRP 2018) Caroline is from the Atlanta area and received her B.A. in Spanish from Georgia College in 2013. She grew up traveling to Lima, Peru annually as a result of her mother’s work with faith-based medical service organizations. These experiences shaped her worldview from a young age, and her interest in Latin America stems from this background. Before studying at UT, Caroline served in AmeriCorps and managed the volunteer program for a social services agency in Atlanta, the Latin American Association. She has always been interested in social issues related to planning work, and she found UT’s dual-degree program a perfect fit for exploring these ideas. Her thesis research explored the implications of involving faith in development practice, focusing on understanding how American evangelical organizations perform development in the Dominican Republic. Caroline currently works as a Senior Planner with the Chattanooga-Hamilton County Regional Planning Agency in Chattanooga, TN. Colleen McGue (MA/MSCRP 2011) Colleen earned her B.A. in Political Science from the University of Notre Dame with a minor in Portuguese/Brazilian Studies. As an undergraduate student, Colleen spent several months as an intern with Maryknoll Laymissioners in São Paulo, Brazil and as a student in Salvador da Bahia, Brazil. During her graduate studies at UT, Colleen volunteered as a visitor with the Hutto Visitation Program, an immigrant detention visitation program at the T. Don Hutto Facility outside of Austin. Her Master's thesis project incorporated a combination of field interviews and GIS analysis to examine the intersection between transportation equity and race in São Paulo. Colleen is currently Chief Transportation Planner at the City of Sarasota. Danielle Rojas (MA/MSCRP 2013) Originally from Colorado, Danielle obtained a B.A. in International Affairs with a focus in Latin American Studies from Florida State University. During her undergraduate study, she spent several months teaching in Lima, Perú, and she also conducted research in Popayán and Bogotá, Colombia. Currently, Danielle’s M.A. studies focused on housing, environmental justice, and social relations in previously informal, now consolidated, areas around Lima’s original urban center (San Martin de Porras, San Juan de Miraflores, and Independencia.) She completed her thesis on self-help renting in Lima and continues to work on issues of social housing and empowerment. Devin Oliver (MA/MSCRP 2018) Devin, originally from Cleveland, Ohio, received his B.A. in Geography from The Ohio State University. While at Ohio State, Devin studied in Argentina, Bolivia, Nicaragua, and Brazil, and conducted fieldwork for his thesis examining the racial politics of gay tourism and mega-event development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Devin further developed this research as a dual-degree student at UT Austin. He helped lead participatory design workshops through the Planning Practicum in the Dominican Republic and co-facilitated activist research projects through the African Diaspora in the Americas program in Brazil. Additionally, Devin’s master’s thesis analyzed the community-building and placemaking practices of Rio’s Black LGBT youth. After graduation, Devin returned to the U.S. to develop a career in environmental advocacy and clean energy policy. Devin is now pursuing his J.D. at UC Berkeley School of Law to become an international environmental and energy lawyer. Edward Hammond (MA/MSCRP 1995) Edward was born in San Antonio, TX and raised on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. He came to the joint program from the University of Richmond (History, 1990) and two years' work in Washington, DC and Peru on land rights and Amazonian indigenous peoples. As a Master's Fellow of the Inter-American Foundation, he completed an MA/MSCRP thesis on pharmaceutical bioprospecting in northeastern Peru in 1995. Since graduating, Edward has worked for international non-governmental organizations in research and advocacy. With the Rural Advancement Foundation International (now the ETC Group), he worked on agriculture, genetic resources, and related aspects of intellectual property. He later led the Sunshine Project, an NGO focusing on biological weapons, where his research on "non-lethal" weapons and the growth of biodefense projects was profiled in Science (DOI: 10.1126/science.305.5685.768) and spawned several national news stories. Based in Texas, Edward now works as independent researcher and writer. His interests are agricultural genetic resources, infectious disease policy, intellectual property, and freedom of information laws. His clients include the World Health Organization, Third World Network, Greenpeace International, and the African Centre for Biosafety. Ethan Colaice (MA/MSCRP 1998) Ethan joined the joint program from Beloit College, where he majored in Spanish and English Literature with a minor in Journalism. His main interest at UT was Latin American urbanization and the particular issue of urban primacy, which also was the focus of his thesis research in Ecuador. Ethan very much enjoyed his three years at UT, he says, where he found the academic environment intense yet collegial, and the program filled with smart and talented people from around the world. Since UT, he has worked in the urban planning and economics consulting field in Boston and in 2003 he joined Struever Bros. Eccles & Rouse, Inc. as a Development Director in his hometown of Providence, RI. SBER specializes in urban adaptive re-use projects and Ethan has been involved in the acquisition and redevelopment of several underutilized and abandoned historic mill properties. He says that the benefits of the dual degree have extended beyond technical skills. His work puts him in constant contact with residents from Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador, and his Spanish skills and understanding and appreciation of their cultures create a level of trust that others would not be able to approximate. The experience in the joint program has made him a more well-rounded and effective professional. GABRIEL ORTIZ (MA/MSRCP 2016) Gabriel Ortiz is from Bogotá, Colombia, and received his B.A. in Philosophy from the Universidad de los Andes. After working as a journalist he decided to pursue the dual degree in Latin American Studies and Community and Regional Planning. Once at UT-Austin he received a Mebane Travel Scholarship from the School of Architecture, which allowed him to travel to Uruguay, Argentina and Chile, where took a keen interest in different artistic expressions that occur in the public space. With additonal support of a Lozano Long Summer Research Grant from the Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin American Studies, he spent a whole summer actively engaging and studying the street art community in his hometown of Bogotá. He then became part of Lavamoatumbá, a street art collective which uses properties that are bound to be demolished as their canvas. He co-wrote an article with Bjorn Sletto about Decree 75, a progressive public policy that sought to regulate and allow street art and graffiti in Bogotá. Geoff Valdés (MA/MSRCP 2000) Geoff Valdés is originally from Wisconsin and received a B.S. in Latin American Studies from the University of Wisconsin in 1994. He was a student in the dual degree program in CRP and Latin American Studies from 2000-2003 and completed his thesis on the intersection between food sovereignty and indigenous organizing in the Tehuantepec Isthmus region of Mexico in the fall of 2007. He spent extended periods in Mexico conducting his research. Geoff has lived in Austin for 8 years and currently runs a small garden-related business with his family. He also continues to work with gardening and food sovereignty projects in the US and Mexico. George McQueen (MA-LAS/MSCRP 2011) Growing up on the US/Mexico border in Arizona, George has always been drawn south — whether to "lunchear" on tacos or to travel overland to Argentina, and back. Since earning BA's in English and Spanish (minor in Music) at Northern Arizona University, George has worn several caps, including those of journalist, activist, carpenter, teacher, camping guide and traveler. He hopes to combine his years of preservation experience with his observations as a municipal reporter (and education at UT) to understand planning issues affecting historic districts, particularly in Latin America. Gina Casey (MA/MSRCP 2011) Gina earned her B.A. degree in Latin American Studies and Spanish at the University of Texas at Austin. During her undergraduate program, she spent semesters in Valparaíso, Chile and Salvador, Brazil. Upon graduation, she traveled through Central America and worked as an English professor at Bluefields Indian and Caribbean University in Nicaragua, before she moved to Washington D.C. to conduct research on human rights issues in Mexico and Central America for the Washington Office on Latin America. During her graduate research, she conducted interviews in an informally settled community in Santo Domingo to examine the effects of transportation mega-projects on vulnerable populations in the region. Gina is currently Director of Housing Support Services at New Lease in Boston, Massachusetts, where she advocates for the housing rights of low-income people, including political refugees and undocumented immigrants, who are currently residing in emergency shelters in Boston. Heather Lamboy (MA/MSCRP 1998) Heather (Pierson) Lamboy, AICP, joined the Joint Program due to her positive experience in the undergraduate honors Latin American Studies Program at UT. She was familiar with the challenges of the program and enjoyed the dialogue and educational opportunities, both book-learned and hands-on. Heather says her most important learning experience was a housing policy project in the Colonias of Texas and Mexico, which showed her that Latin American issues were not isolated to Latin America. Heather has worked in different public and private sector planning positions in Santa Fe, New Mexico, Seattle, Washington, and Denver, Colorado before her current position as Principal Planner with the Hillsborough County City-County Planning Commission in Tampa, Florida. She finds her tenure with the LAS/CRP program serves her well in her day-to-day work, from being able to counsel on zoning and comprehensive planning matters in Spanish, to developing local government legislation sensitive to the needs and desires of Hispanic groups within the community. Heather is grateful for the experience and knowledge she gained at the University of Texas as it helps her to be a more effective planner. JOSE Rubio-Zepeda (MA/MSCRP, 2019) A native of Tegucigalpa, Honduras and growing up in Wisconsin, José received his B.A. degrees in Political Science and Spanish, with a minor in International Studies, Latin American emphasis from the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse. In his undergraduate studies, he focused on the areas of race, ethnicity, migration, and transnationalism within the Caribbean, specifically the Dominican Republic and Haiti. José conducted research on the effects of statelessness and discrimination in the Dominican Republic from Haitian migrants to Santo Domingo. He continued this research into the dual master’s program focusing more on the anthropological and sociological effects of migration on undocumented Haitian migrants. In particular, he focused on how Haitians contend with their ambivalent legal status, and the limitations their social and geographic mobility prevent them from accessing various resources and services. José currently serves as a Transfer Retention Specialist at UW-La Crosse, where he works with multicultural transfer students, supporting them as they navigate higher education. Central to his work include topics related to equity, diversity, access, retention, and community development for marginalized communities. JuAN TINEY Chirix (MA/MSCRP, 2019) Juan is a Tzutujil-Kaqchikel Mayan non-binary student who grew up in a country called Guatemala. He received a bachelor’s degree in Economics at the University of Havana, Cuba. He pursued the dual master’s degree in Latin American Studies and Community and Regional Planning at UT-Austin because he wants to reclaim academic spaces that recognize Indigenous knowledge. Juan’s master’s thesis, titled “El cooperativismo como espacio político y económico para el empoderamiento de las mujeres negras e indígenas: diálogos intersectoriales sur-sur (La República Dominicana y Guatemala),” centered on the recognition of the knowledge of Indigenous and Black women in microprojects focused on permaculture development. He is currently pursuing a doctoral degree in Latin American Studies at UT-Austin. Julia Duranti-Martínez (MA/MSCRP 2018) Julia is a New York City-based critical planner and facilitator with experience in community development, language justice, and participatory action research. As Community Land Trust (CLT) Campaign Coordinator at New Economy Project, she facilitates citywide capacity-building, coalition organizing and advocacy, and community education on CLTs and just economic development. Julia previously worked as a language justice interpreter in Austin, TX, and conducted collaborative thesis research on self-built neighborhoods, gender, and urban resilience in Los Platanitos, Dominican Republic during her graduate studies at UT Austin. Prior to graduate school, she worked in Colombia providing human rights accompaniment and policy analysis, and facilitating popular education. Julia has also worked in family and emergency services for undocumented Latinx immigrants in Portland, OR, volunteered in Bolivia, and studied abroad in Chile. Originally from Seattle, WA, Julia received her B.A. in Anthropology and International Peace Studies from the University of Notre Dame, where she was involved with campus and community activism related to LGBTQIA+ and immigrant rights. Jeremiah Carew (MA/MSRCP 2000) Jeremiah came to UT-Austin with undergraduate degree in architecture from Yale University (1991). As a student in the joint degree program, he focused on affordable housing and substandard residential subdivisions (colonias) on the Texas side of the Texas-Mexico border. His three years at UT were a lot of hard work, but the education here provided him with strong quantitative, research and program evaluation skills that he uses every day in his current job. The Latin America coursework gave him a tremendous leg up on understanding country context and development issues he encounters every day as a deputy program officer for the US Agency for International Development Mission in Peru (USAID/PERU). His job responsibilities include strategic planning and program evaluation to ensure that funds are spent on projects with the highest development impact. He says it is exciting to be involved in making such important decisions, and playing a major part as a donor in a country's development. Read more about Jeremiah's work at the United States Agency for International Development. Lindsey Engelman (MA/MSCRP 2011) Lindsey grew up in Houston and then Austin, and obtained a B.A. in Legal Studies from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 2004. As an undergraduate, Lindsey worked as a health promoter in HIV prevention and harm reduction. After college she spent three years working as a legal assistant in an environmental law firm in Austin. She also spent a year working as a human rights accompanier in rural Guatemala, assisting victims who are participating in a national criminal-case against the intellectual designers of the country's genocide. Lindsey's research interests are focused on sustainability and human rights as they relate to environmental justice, especially in Latin America. She is currently Public Engagement Coordinator at the Lozano Long Institute for Latin American Studies, University of Texas at Austin. Mark Lundy (MA/MSCRP 1995) Mark Lundy graduated from the joint CRP / LA in 1995 after completing a BA in International Relations at American University. During his time at UT he spent a year in Ecuador working for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fundación Natura and wrote his thesis on the Community Development Corporation model promoted by the Fundación Carvajal in Cali, Colombia. Mark currently works as a Senior Researcher at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture, CIAT, in Cali, Colombia. His work focuses on rural enterprise development with smallholder farmers and includes topics such as the establishment of learning networks to increase NGO and farmer capacities for enterprise development, how private companies can better partner with smallholder farmers, the role of public and donor agencies in supporting market linkages and how to establish and sustain effective trading relationships between buyers and smallholder farmers that add business value while reducing rural poverty. Mark is lead author of a series of guides on participatory rural enterprise development and an active participant in the Sustainable Food Lab and other multi-stakeholder forums focused on sustainability and smallholder inclusion in Latin America and Africa. Matt Beyers (MA/MSCRP 1997) Matt Beyers has been an epidemiologist at the Alameda County Public Health Department since 2003. Coming into the UT program, Matt had five years experience as an electrical engineer in quality control. While at UT, Matt was primarily interested in economic and community development, taking courses in sociology, geography, and economics. He made three trips to Nicaragua studying urban agriculture for his professional report. His work since receiving his master's degrees in Latin American Studies and in Community and Regional Planning in 1997 has included stints as an economic development consultant and as a research director at a nonprofit. Meredith Bossin (MA/MSCRP 2009) Meredith, originally from Houston, Texas, received her B.A. in the History of Art and Architecture from Rice University. After a six-month trip to South America, she decided to pursue a degree in Latin American Studies and chose the University of Texas because of the opportunity to get a joint degree in Planning and Latin American Studies. The focus of her research is gender issues in the context of international development. She volunteered with ProyectArte, a non-profit art program in Buenos Aires, during the summer of 2006 and completed the Civil Society Institute Program in Mexico in the Summer 2007 semester. Meredith is currently Director of Engagement at the Waller Creek Conservancy in Austin, Texas. Meredith's M.A. Thesis can be viewed online. Monica Bosquez (MA/MSCRP 2009) Monica, native of Corpus Christi, Texas, earned a B.A. in English Literature from the University of Texas at Austin before working as an analyst and legislative aide at the Texas Legislature, where she focused on natural resource and Border policy. Monica then served in the U.S. Peace Corps in Panama as an Environmental Conservation Volunteer from 2002-2005. She is currently employed as a Program Specialist with the Office of Rural Community Affairs. Future goals include development work in Latin America. Omar Díaz (MA-LAS/MSCRP 2011) Omar comes from the El Paso/Juarez border, where border politics and social issues have no indication of slowing down. He received double BA’s in Electronic Media and Creative Writing from the University of Texas at El Paso. During his undergraduate program, Omar had a variety of jobs such as substitute teacher, baker, television camera man, writer, and food/wine taster, all of which influenced and fed his hunger for perspective. Two of Omar's main concerns are the lack of communication and threats to sustainable culture in border city communities. The focus of Omar's research is to support and sustain border communities by implementing community regional planning methods to help sustain border cultures. Upon graduation he will seek a way to expand his studies and practice globally. He completed his PhD in the College of Education, University of Texas at Austin, in 2019. Peter Almlie (MA/MSCRP 2010) Peter, originally from Seattle, completed his BA in Latin American Studies at San Diego State University, where he focused on housing issues in Mixtec communities in Oaxaca, Mexico. After extensive travels throughout Latin America, he worked for a non-profit agency which focused on providing housing in the peripheral colonias of Tijuana. Seeking a greater understanding of the built environment, Peter entered the dual degree program at UT Austin where he completed his thesis on infrastructure development in colonias in Mexico. Polly Morrison (MA/MSCRP 1994) Polly, originally from Washington State, came to UT after volunteering and working in Monteverde, Costa Rica for nearly four years. A graduate of Pacific Lutheran University (1986) in history and international studies, Polly entered the joint degree program in 1991 and, during her three years at UT, focused on community development and conservation efforts in Latin America. After graduation, Polly moved to Paraguay as a Population-Environment Fellow (a program managed by the University of Michigan), where she worked with a local NGO to study the perceptions that local people had of protected areas. Now in the U.S., she has worked for The Nature Conservancy, Georgetown University's Center for International Education and Development and, currently, at Conservation International. Her interests and career remain focused on the importance of healthy ecosystems for economic development and human well-being and she credits the joint program with providing the skills, knowledge and exchange of ideas that have allowed her to pursue her interests. Rachael Die (MA/MSCRP 2012) Rachael is a Texas native who earned her B.A. degree in Anthropology and Sociology at Southwestern University in Georgetown, Texas. During her undergraduate experiences, she studied abroad in Valaparaíso and Temuco, Chile. Her research in Chile focused on indigenous land rights issues with the Mapuche. Rachael's thesis research focused on neoliberal tourism development and its social and economic consequences in Bocas del Toro, Panamá. Currently, she is working as a planner with the Parks Department in Houston, Texas. ROLF PENDALL (MA/MSCRP 1989) Rolf's research expertise includes land use planning and regulation; federal, state, and local affordable housing policy and programs; and metropolitan planning and development. Between 1998 and mid-2010, Rolf was a tenure-track and tenured professor in the Department of City and Regional Planning at Cornell University. In 2007, Rolf was appointed to a National Academy of Sciences Transportation Research Board panel on links between land use, transportation, energy, and greenhouse gas emissions; the committee's report, "Driving and the Built Environment", was released in September 2009. Rolf holds a PhD (1995) in City and Regional Planning from the University of California at Berkeley, an MS in Community and Regional Planning and an MA in Latin American Studies from the University of Texas at Austin (1989), and a BA in sociology from Kenyon College in Ohio (1984). Previously, he was the Director of the Metropolitan Housing & Communities Policy Center at the Urban Institute. Currently, Rolf is a Professor and Head of the Department of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. Sam Tabory (MA/MSCRP 2016) Originally from Kansas City, Sam Tabory received a BA in Latin American Studies and Spanish Language from Tulane University. Prior to starting at the University of Texas, he worked as a project manager for NGOs in South and Central America focusing on community development and light infrastructure projects. He chose UT-Austin for its strong reputation as a hub for Latin American Studies graduate training. The dual degree program in Latin American Studies and Community and Regional Planning offered an opportunity to expand the disciplinary breadth of his training in critical development studies and international planning. His fieldwork and thesis focused on co-produced infrastructure services in informal settlements in Santo Domingo. After graduating in 2016, Sam worked as a research associate for the global cities research team at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs and as a research manager for the Sustainable Healthy Cities Network, a National Science Foundation-supported research network studying urban infrastructure transitions. In 2019, he entered the PhD program in urban planning at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design. Sara McTarnaghan (MA/MSCRP 2015) Sara is from San Francisco, CA and received her B.A. in International Affairs and Latin American Studies from George Washington University. Her interest in housing emerged while working for the nonprofit Techo in Santiago, Chile from 2011-2012. The dual degree in Planning and Latin American Studies presented an opportunity to further explore issues of affordable housing in cities across the Americas. Her thesis examined spatial patterns of subsidized housing and opportunity in Santiago, Chile and Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. While at UT, she also contributed to community engaged research in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic through the planning practicum. Sara is now a Research Associate at the Urban Institute’s Metropolitan Housing and Communities Policy Center where she focuses on housing, urban development and resilience, and migration. Sara’s current research can be viewed online. Sean McKaughan (MA/MSCRP 1996) Sean earned a Bachelor of Liberal Arts degree from UT's Plan II program before he entered the dual degree program in CRP and Latin American Studies. As a graduate student, he was particularly interested in sustainable development, resource management and issues surrounding drought in Brazil. When he was in the joint program, the field of sustainable development was just opening up. Sustainable development is multi-disciplinary by nature, he says, and UT offered him an amazing diversity of quality programs, from natural sciences, to business, to public policy and economics. The joint-degree program allowed him to put together all of those elements in a "build-it-yourself" approach, and the result was a strong base for his subsequent work with sustainable development in Mexico, Brazil and other parts of Latin America. Sean is now the CEO of Fundación AVINA and responsible for its 22 offices, 150 employees and portfolio of 1000 partners in 11 Latin American countries. AVINA contributes to sustainable development in Latin America by supporting leaders from business and civil society, and promoting productive alliances among them. He lives with his family in Rio de Janeiro, but travels frequently throughout South and Central America. Shavone Otero (MA/MSCRP 2018) Shavone Otero is from Albuquerque, New Mexico, where she earned her Bachelor of Arts in English with a Chicano Studies Minor from the University of New Mexico (UNM). While at UNM, she studied post-colonial hybrid identity by documenting the Fiestas of Santiago Apóstol in Nicaragua. Shavone chose UT Austin because of the dual degree program in Community and Regional Planning and Latin American Studies, and because of the opportunity to pursue activist scholarship through the Dominican Republic Practicum. She focused her thesis on utilizing the arts and community-based muralism as a participatory, transformative planning practice with marginalized communities in the informal settlement of Los Platanitos, Dominican Republic. Shavone remains active in her community and advocates for affordable housing, mobility justice, culturally inclusive practices, and equitable policies. Stephen Ramos (MA/MSCRP 2000) Stephen enrolled in the joint degree program at UT-Austin with a B.A. in English and Spanish Literature from Gettysburg College. After graduating from Gettysburg he worked for three years as director of the Project Gettysburg-León Sister City group in León, Nicaragua, where he focused on housing and urbanization projects in informal settlements. His thesis research at UT explored urban social movements for public infrastructure by comparing the colonias movement in Guadalajara, Mexico with the COPS experience in San Antonio, Texas, advised by Dr. Michael Oden and Dr. Bryan Roberts. After graduating, he moved to Spain to work for the Fundación Metrópoli urban research center in Madrid, where projects included a new city competition for Shanghai, a waterfront development for Casablanca, and a proposal to convert the Madrid ring road into a boulevard. Stephen received his doctoral degree in 2009 from the Harvard Graduate School of Design, where his research focused on large-scale trade infrastructure as mechanism for territorial organization in rapidly urbanizing contexts. He is a founding editor of the journal New Geographies, which focuses on contemporary issues of urbanism and architecture. Currently, Stephen is an Associate Professor at the College of Environment and Design, University of Georgia. Vanessa Martinez (MA/MSCRP 2012) Vanessa grew up in Lincoln, Nebraska, where she received B.A. degrees in English and Music from Nebraska Wesleyan University. Her undergraduate studies focused primarily on literary translation from Spanish to English, and clarinet performance. After college, she spent time working for Nebraska Appleseed Center for Law in the Public Interest as the State Coordinator for "Nebraska Is Home," a community-led initiative to create a sense of shared values around the topics of immigrants and immigration. Her current research involves U.S.-Mexico migration as it relates to participatory planning, and the economic well being of migrants and their families. She also hopes to develop research aimed at utilizing music as a tool for social justice, especially in marginalized communities. Alexandra Lamina for website.jpg Alexandra Lamina A.Phillips.Brazil.2006 People page.jpg Allison Phillips Caroline Daigle.jpg Caroline Daigle Danielle Rojas.jpg Danielle Rojas Devin Oliver for website.jpg Devin Oliver People_Alumni_Ethan Colaice.jpg Ethan Colaice Gabriel Ortiz.jpg Gabriel Ortiz Heather Lamboy.JPG Heather Lamboy Jeremiah Carew.jpg Jeremiah Carew Jose Rubio-Zepeda Jose Rubio-Zepeda Juan Tiney.JPG Juan Tiney Julia Duranti-Martinez.jpg Julia Duranti-Martinez Mark_Lundy.JPG Mark Lundy Meredith Bossin.JPG Meredith Bossin Monica Bosquez.jpg Monica Bosquez Polly_Morrison_photo.jpg Polly Morrison Rachael_Die.JPG Rachael Die Sam Tabory.jpg Sam Tabory Sara McTarnaghan.jpg Sara McTarnaghan Shavone Otero for website.jpg Shavone Otero Vanessa Martinez.JPG Vanessa Martinez Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat