Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home My Accounts | Give University of Texas Libraries Menu University of Texas at Austin Home My Accounts | Give The University of Texas at Austin University of Texas Libraries Search Resources Search Website Search the library website Resources Website Search the library website Find, Borrow, Request Expand Find Materials Library Catalog Articles Databases Journals Course Materials Digital Collections Digital Exhibits Map Collection Geospatial Data Borrow and Request Borrow, Renew & Return Request from another Library (Interlibrary Loan) Get a Scan of a Book Chapter or Article Suggest a Purchase Remote Delivery for Off-Campus Users Research Help & Support Expand Get Help Ask a Librarian Citing Sources Research Guides Workshops University Writing Center Public Speaking Center Publishing & Scholarly Research Scholarly Communication Services Research Data Services GIS & Geospatial Data Services Open Education Services Digital Scholarship Texas Data Repository Texas ScholarWorks Teaching & Learning Teaching & Learning Support Contact your Subject Librarian Request Library Instruction Request Course Materials Study Spaces & Technology Expand Study Rooms Reserve a Study Room Collaborative & Quiet Study Spaces Closed Studies & Carrels Computers, Printing & Technology Print, Copy & Scan Computers, Software & Wifi Access Library Spaces Foundry Makerspace Learning Commons Scholars Commons UFCU Room Explore Spaces About the Libraries Expand General Information Locations Hours Visitor Information Collecting Areas Our Organization Mission, Vision & Values Library Administration Staff Directory Job Opportunities Policies and Guidelines Lending Policies Information for Users with Disabilities See all Policies Connect with Us News Events Give to the Libraries Please note: The Architecture and Planning Library and the Alexander Architectural Archives are currently closed for renovations. UT Austin affiliates and courtesy borrowers may request circulating materials, which can be picked up at other UTL branches, via the library catalog. Archival materials, rare books, and other non-circulating items may be requested by appointment at the Collections Deposit Library. Questions? Email us. Home About the Libraries Locations Architecture and Planning Library Architecture and Planning Library Architecture and Planning Library Reading Room Quick Links Floor Plan See our Research Guides Our Staff Find your Subject Librarian Alexander Architectural Archive Battle Hall Highlights The Architecture and Planning Library features research collections in support of the School of Architecture, as well as campus, institutional and independent scholarship. The Library stewards general collections of note in literature, visual and digital resources in various fields of architecture, planning, preservation and related design disciplines, as well as Special Collections of over 20,000 volumes of rare, unique and contextually significant publications. While international in scope, the collections contain significant materials on the built environment in Texas, the Southwest United States and Latin America. Weekly Hours Placeholder Featured Research Guides Architectural History Find relevant academic journals, research articles, visual resources, primary sources and more for Architectural History. Architecture Find relevant academic journals, research articles, visual resources, primary sources and more for Architecture. Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Urban Design See all Research Guides Featured Spaces Battle Hall Designed in 1909-10 by the New York architect Cass Gilbert, Battle Hall was the first academic building on campus listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Its style became the model for future buildings on campus, including Sutton Hall (1918), Gilbert's only other structure at The University. Today, Battle Hall is the home of the Architecture and Planning Library, the Alexander Architectural Archives, and the Center for American Architecture and Design. In February 2007, the American Insitute of Architects announced that Battle Hall was included on its list of America's Favorite Architecture. See the online exhibit Our Landmark Library - Battle Hall at 100 for more information and history about the building. Services and FAQ Services Borrowing Print, Copy & Scan Computer, Software & Wifi Access Our Collections Architecture & Planning Library The Architecture & Planning Library is a learning lab for multi-disciplinary study of the built environment, providing hybrid collections of print and digital materials. While international in scope, the collections contain significant materials on the built environment in Texas, the Southwest United States, and Latin America. Architecture & Planning Library Special Collections The Architecture & Planning Library Special Collections contains over 20,000 volumes of rare, unique, and contextually significant publications. The special collections continue to develop through generous donations of the personal collections of architectural historians and architecture firms, as well as selective purchases. Alexander Architectural Archives The Alexander Architectural Archives is one of the largest architectural repositories in the country. The Alexander’s holdings reflect the work and scholarship of architects, landscape architects, planners, designers, preservationists, historians, professors, and businesses in the industry. Learn more about the Alexander Architectural Archives Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Architecture and Planning Library Location: Battle Hall 302 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas 78712 Mailing Address: Architecture and Planning Library, University of Texas Libraries P.O. Box P The University of Texas at Austin Austin, Texas 78712 Email: apl@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-495-4620 Architecture & Planning Library News Nov. 30, 2018 — Alexander Archives Acquires Historic Preservation Collection March 30, 2018 — Architecture Exhibit Celebrates a Century of Sutton Hall Feb. 27, 2018 — Alexander Archive Acquires Buildings of Texas Collection Jan. 11, 2018 — Friday Finds: The Arts and Crafts Movement See all news for this location University of Texas Libraries Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Us Maps & Directions Job Opportunities Material Usage Statement Service Alerts UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Subscribe to our Newsletter Give to the Libraries © The University of Texas at Austin 2022