Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Doctoral Student Profiles Awais Azhar GRA - Paterson - PT2050 Urban Planning Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning Awais Azhar is a Community and Regional Planning Ph.D. student and his research focuses on how financialization and racial capitalism intersect to dispossess tenants of color in Austin. He is a Potter Rose Graduate Fellowship awardee and a teaching assistant for the Introduction to Visual Communication and GIS course. He was previously a teaching assistant for the Qualitative and Participatory Methods, Foundations of Planning Law, and Engineering Communication courses. He has a Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning and a Master of Public Affairs from the University of Texas at Austin. Previously, Awais worked as Program Manager for the Austin Community Investment Collaborative at HousingWorks Austin, focusing on affordable housing policy and research. Currently, he serves on the City of Austin Planning Commission, Austin Housing Coalition Executive Committee, HousingWorks Austin Board, ECHO COC Membership Council, Leadership Team of Planning Our Communities, and ACSP Inclusion Interest Group Executive Committee. In the past he has also served on the Equality Texas Board, Community Advancement Network Dashboard Steering Committee, City of Austin LGBTQ Quality of Life Advisory Commission, City of Austin Community Development Commission and as a 2017 Central Health Community Health Champion. Shunhua Bai GRA - Jiao - 1902059821 Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Shunhua Bai is a Ph.D. Candidate in the Community and Regional Planning (CRP) program at the University of Texas at Austin with a concentration in transportation planning and urban informatics. He is now a graduate research assistant in the Urban Information Laboratory (UIL) using Geographic Information Science (GIS), statistical modeling, and emerging big data-driven techniques to study human movement and urban transportation systems. Prior to attending UT Austin, Mr. Bai acquired his Bachelor's degree in Geographic Information Science (GIS) at the School of Geography, Beijing Normal University in China and his Master's degree in Urban and Regional Planning (MURP) at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota - Twin Cities in the US. In his professional experience at the Humphrey School, he concentrated on promoting public transit service via spatial and statistical modeling and analysis. His graduation report identified critical policy and planning issues regarding the relationship between local transportation network companies(Uber, Lyft, etc.) and transit services, based on which he and his colleagues offered recommendations for local transit agencies in the Twin Cities area. Angeliz Encarnacion Burg Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning RWJF Health Policy Research Scholar Doctoral Candidate, Community and Regional Planning Angeliz E. Encarnacion Burgos is a PhD student in Community and Regional Planning and a RWJF Health Policy Research Scholar from Guaynabo, Puerto Rico. She completed her BS and Master’s in Planning at the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus. Before entering to the Program, she was working as Associate Director of Research Affairs at the University of Puerto Rico School of Dental Medicine, and as Executive Coordinator of the Caribbean Oral Health Initiative. Previously, she worked for two years as GIS Analyst and Community Planner in the Caño Martín Peña ENLACE Project through the AmeriCops Vista program. Her research agenda is centered on the city as a contested landscape; and is particularly focus on exploring social exclusions, inequalities, development, and health issues in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean Region. Furthermore, is grounded outside the traditional planning discourse and relies, mainly, on critical urban theory. Angeliz’s goal is to bridge planning reflective research practices with a different way of seeking social justice through active research interactions with diverse communities. This research practice aims to advance alternative planning frameworks to produce knowledge and reframe theories of action within the discipline through the inclusion of everyday life experiences of urban residents. She genuinely believes these research interactions are crucial to achieve a democratic, just and imperishable form of urbanization. Greg Griffin Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Greg Griffin studies how planners and publics work together with technology, particularly through engaged scholarship in sustainable transportation and geographies of health. He completed his dissertation, called "Sociotechnical Co-production of Planning Information: Opportunities and Limits of Crowdsourcing for the Geography and Planning of Bicycle Transportation" in May, 2019, and started as an Assistant Professor of Urban and Regional Planning at The University of Texas at San Antonio in fall 2019. Previously, Greg worked as a researcher with the Texas A&M Transportation Institute, state park planner and regional transportation planner, and taught Transportation Systems at Texas State University. Greg is a member of the American Institute of Certified Planners, and bicycles whenever possible. Kaylyn Levine GRA - Karner Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Kaylyn is a third-year Ph.D. student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of Texas at Austin. Her research focuses on the equity and accessibility of public transit for people with disabilities. Kaylyn has a Master of Science in Applied Urban Science and Informatics from New York University and a Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science from the University of California, Los Angeles. Previously, Kaylyn researched urban infrastructure vulnerability and transportation networks with the NYC Mayor’s Office of Recovery and Resiliency. Currently, she works as a graduate research assistant to Dr. Alex Karner quantifying the social equity of transportation projects. In her free time, she enjoys exploring Austin with her Siberian Husky and Australian Shepherd. Ziqi Liu GRA - Zhang - Snell Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning My research interests lie in the transportation planning and spatial inequality. I have been working as the graduate research assistant at the consortium of Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions(CM2), under the supervision of Dr. Ming Zhang. My current researches cover the development of global megaregions, regional inequality, as well as transportation infrastructure investment and transit economic impacts. I'm also enthusiastic in the application of statistical modelling in the planning field, especially in the inequality measurement, the spatial analysis, and economic impact analysis. I believe that precision and accuracy in data analysis procedure helps make appropriate and efficient planning policies. While pursuing the Master Degree in Statistics, I incorporated what I learned in the Statistics Department in my research and focus on improving the method. Adam Ogusky Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning Adam Ogusky’s research interests include the intersection of the philosophy of ethics and planning processes, as well as art and cultural planning. He received a B.A. in Geography from Dartmouth College in 2004 and an M.S. in Planning from UT Austin in 2010. After graduation, he moved to New Mexico and worked in arts education in Albuquerque, followed by stints as a planner for the local planning department and as a potter in Taos. Lynn Osgood AI Summer - Anchor Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Lynn trained and practiced as a landscape designer and urban planning in Charlottesville, VA and Austin, TX before she began her doctoral studies at UT. She holds a M.L.A. in Landscape Architecture and a M.U.E.P. in Urban Planning from the University of Virginia. Before starting her studies at UT she worked at the United Nations in New York and in Morocco where she focused on the issue of sustainability education. Her current research focuses on the creation and maintenance of public spaces through various social, political and artistic processes. Within the City of Austin Lynn has served with various panels, boards and workgroups including the Art in Public Place Panel, the Waller Creek Citizen’s Advisory Committee, the CreateAustin Task Force, and most recently she was appointed as Council Representative to the Austin Parks and Recreation Board. Mashrur Rahman Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Mashrur Rahman is a PhD student in the Community and Regional Planning program. His research focuses on travel behavior, land use transportation interaction and public transportation planning. Currently he is working as a graduate research assistant in the USDOT Tier 1 UTC: Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions (CM2) in the School of Architecture at the University of Texas at Austin. Prior to attending UT Austin, he achieved Master's degree in Transportation Science from the University of California Irvine. He also holds both Bachelor and Master's degree in Urban and Regional Planning from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology. Steven Richter GRA - Felkner - Energy Institute Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning I'm an experienced management consultant who decided to pivot my career towards building more sustainable cities and communities. I've attended two graduate programs, one in Sustainability and the other in Environmental Planning, and have applied my data skills to several projects that range from urban forestry indicators to a municipal GHG inventory to a spatial analysis of an urban water metabolism. I have an intellectual curiosity that embraces a wide range of topics because sustainability is, in my opinion, about understanding the integration between disciplines, not specialization. I am currently working on the Texas Urban Observatory research project with Dr. Katherine Lieberknecht. My focus is the development of an integrated database that scales up the Austin Area Sustainability Indicators across the state of Texas. Leon Guiller Staines Diaz TA Summer - Anchor Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Originally from Monterrey, México, León Staines graduated as an Architect in 2007 and holds a Master's in Sciences in Urban Affairs from the Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon, where he has been a professor since 2012. From 2010-2012 he lived in Buenos Aires, Argentina studying a Master in History and Theory of Architecture where his view on Latin America broaden on the correlation that exists between the problems, differences, and similarities of the region. He also worked at the urban planning office in Monterrey where Leon’s research interests were clarified on spatial justice and participatory processes to improve informal communities. His research is focused on Latin America. In the Urban Design field, León has been distinguished with a National (Mexico) 1st Place with Morelos St. "XXIV CEMEX Award" category: Accessibility Congruence, and a 2nd Place internationally in the same category. His doctoral studies are funded by a scholarship from ConTex-CONACYT. Raksha Vasudevan Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Co-organizer, Spaces of Struggle B. Arch, Minor in Industrial Design: Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech), Blacksburg, VA M.S. Urban & Regional Planning: Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech), Alexandria, VA I am a phd candidate in the Community and Regional Planning Program. I am interested in social justice, youth geographies and urban design, and I hope to contribute to radical planning theories and methodologies. My dissertation work is an ethnographic project with young adults in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, examining their mobilities and imaginaries. Prior to arriving at UT-Austin, I had a variety of work experiences, including working as an intern architect, teaching small children, and managing the sustainability program at the National League of Cities, where I worked with sustainability directors and local elected officials to progress city sustainability efforts in the United States. Andrea Wirsching Editor II Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Andrea "Christina" Wirsching is trained as both a planning practitioner and interdiscplinary social scientist, specializing in social and environmental justice in planning. She just received her Doctorate in Community and Regional Planning Program at The University of Texas at Austin in May (2020), and was one of only two planning doctoral students in the National Science Foundation IGERT Trainee in Energy Grids and Sustainable Energy (2014-16). She earned a Graduate Portfolio in Mexican American Studies. She recently completed a year-long appointment as Visiting Instructor for 2019-20 in Urban Studies at Trinity University in San Antonio, TX, where she taught The Urban Experience, Research Methods: GIS, Latinx Urban Planning and Justice and the City. Originally from Laredo, Texas, Dr. Wirsching’s research examines the multilayered contexts in and of planning to critically inform community planning and scholarship. She also holds a Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning degree as well as a BA in Geography from UT Austin, where she established a strong foundation in environmental resource management and secondary science education. Her master’s degree research focused on historiographies in planning. Her thesis examined the controversy within the historical context of the Holly Street Power Plant and surrounding Mexican American neighborhood, connecting to her deep familial ties in this East Austin, Texas, neighborhood. Dr. Wirsching's passion for giving back to her community continues to be evident in her current interdisciplinary academic pursuits. Her dissertation research incorporates traditional impact assessments and spatial analyses of communities effected by the oil and gas industry with histories of governance and land development, with the goal of painting a more nuanced picture of what this looks like on the ground and how we got there. She conducted her study along the Texas-Mexico border in Webb County, Texas, where Laredo is the county seat. Dr. Wirsching is interested in teaching from the intersections of critical pedagogical studies, planning, and social science scholarship, incorporating topics in urban planning and governance, Latinx border studies, energy and the environment, and research methods. She aims to create an empowering academic and experiential student learning environment that recognizes and celebrates students’ personal and geographic backgrounds while equipping students with knowledge and tools to ultimately give back to their own communities. Dr. Wirsching has served as a member of the UT Austin School of Architecture Diversity Task Force, part of the leadership teams of student organizations focused on diversity and inclusion, and, in her professional pre-graduate school life, worked in undergraduate admissions and academic student affairs, and graduate recruitment for historically underrepresented student populations at UT Austin. Christina also worked as a planner and/or researcher for the City of Austin, State of Texas, Texas Low Income Housing Information Service (Texas Housers), and the Center for Sustainable Development at UT Austin, and currently is a community development project manager. Stephen Zigmund TA - Paterson Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning Medicare For All. 24$ Minumum Wage. Cancel Student Debt. Deidre Zoll Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning I’m a postdoctoral fellow in Integrative Biology at the University of Texas at Austin. I finished my Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning at the University of Texas at Austin in 2021. My research investigates the connections between city-led climate adaptation planning and environmental racism in the United States. I use mixed methods including plan evaluation, spatial statistics, and case studies to identify the ways structural racism influences exposure to climate risks and proximity to adaptation interventions, and how urban planners and community activists navigate these dynamics. Before landing in Texas, I studied Global Environmental Policy and International Development (MA, 2008) at American University, and Environmental Policy and Planning (BA, 2003) at Alaska Pacific University. Clare Zutz Ph.D. in Community and Regional Planning Clare’s research is focused on regional food system resilience as a lens to create more equitable and sustainable communities. She currently works on the Health Portfolio at the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, where she manages food-related grants. Previously, she lectured in UT Austin's Geography Department and at the LBJ School of Public Affairs. Leon.png Leon Staines shares his research with community members.JPG Leon Staines shares his research with community members Deidre.png Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Dual Degree and Certificate Programs PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat