Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Historic Preservation: Frequently Asked Questions What sort of background do I need? We understand that Historic Preservation is a multidisciplinary field, therefore students from different backgrounds and disciplines are encouraged to apply. We prefer that students have training or previous experience in architecture, urban planning, architectural history, art history, history, conservation, or archaeology. Knowledge of the history of architecture and construction are particularly helpful. But we accept students from a wide array of backgrounds in the liberal arts and sciences. Work experience in a professional setting is helpful. How long is the course of study for the Historic Preservation Programs? Our curriculum to obtain a M.S.H.P. is designed to be completed in two academic years. The H.P. and M.S.C.R.P. specialization is typically a two-year endeavor. Students obtaining a specialization in preservation via the M.Arch. the program requires one-and-a-half years. The doctoral degree should be achieved in four to six years. Do you offer Study Abroad Programs? The regular M.S.H.P. student will take a Design Studio as part of the program. This studio includes a study abroad experience in Mexico, focusing on historic structures that challenge the students to develop adaptive reuse projects. The settings vary from world heritage cities to rural towns highlighting the varied forms of cultural heritage in Mexico. What are the foci of the Preservation curriculum? The program's strengths are architectural conservation, architectural history, preservation planning, and design. What does the final graduate project for master's students entail? M.S.H.P. students are required to create a final report that presents substantial research and is written as a thesis on independent and original research. Students focusing on design will complete this report emphasizing their design inquiries and the completion will consist of a final design project. How many hours is the master's degree? The M.S.H.P. is a 48-hour degree program. Students usually take 12 credit hours per semester (3 or 4 classes). Can I really finish my master's degree in two years? The great majority of our students are able to complete their work in two years. Of course, there are few exceptions that make it longer. Students continuing on to a Ph.D. degree can expect to spend three or four additional years in the program. Do I get hands-on training? The program is designed to give students a very good working knowledge of theory and practice, as well as to provide them with hands-on training. Many students work on individual projects (often connected with their theses or dissertations) during their time at the university. A large number of students also work for preservation firms or government offices during their studies. Because Austin is the location of the State Historic Preservation Office and a regional center for Historic Preservation, there are ample opportunities for employment in the field. Students with architectural skills in particular are in demand. What types of financial aid or scholarships are available? All students applying to the program will be included in a poll for two recruitment highly-competitive scholarships for their first year. In addition, the School of Architecture offers various scholarships and assistantships to students beyond the first year of study. Financial Aid for first-semester students is normally in the form of federal loans. Commensurate with previous experience, first-year students may be offered teaching and research assistantships or other scholarships when available. Why go on to do a Ph.D.? Generally speaking, a Ph.D. is appropriate for those who wish to teach or work in policy, research, or the international arena. Those who would prefer to practice usually require only a master's degree in the field. Are there jobs in Historic Preservation? Currently, the job market for Historic Preservation is excellent, and all indicators suggest that the will be steady growth in the coming years. We generally have more job offers than graduating students. Make an appointment with the Career Services Office as soon as you arrive to discuss your career goals and job search opportunities. You will discover beneficial resources and guidance to ensure you are successful in obtaining valuable experience in your field. What types of job opportunities are available for Preservation students on and off-campus? Within the School of Architecture, preservation students are eligible for various office, research, and teaching assistantships. Preservation and School of Architecture faculty are available to assist students in finding preservation-related employment off-campus. Most students obtain summer internships between the first and second year that may lead to full-time opportunities after graduation. Where do students live? Graduate student housing is available to students who fit certain criteria through the Division of Housing and Food Service. Students must apply for this option which is provided on a first-come, first-serve basis. Most students reside in apartments throughout the city of Austin. How do I join the Preservation Listserv or sign up to receive the HP News e-newsletter? If you have not used the mailing list system before, go to the main UT Lists page and select the First Login link. Enter your e-mail address and click the Send Me My Password button. Your new password will be sent to your e-mail address, and you can log on using it. - After you have successfully logged on, click the tab called List of Lists. Scroll down to find the list you would like to join. Click on the name of the list you would like to join: - To join the Preservation community listserv, click on To join the Preservation community listserv, click on preservation@utlists.utexas.edu. - Along the left sidebar, there will be a link to "Subscribe". Click on this link. You may receive a message stating that your subscription on the list is pending approval by the listserv owner. You will be notified by email when the listserv owner has approved you subscription. - Once you are subscribed to the listserv, you can manage your listserv accounts through the main UT Lists page. From your home page you can unsubscribe, change you password, or update your name and email information. - If you are already receiving mail from one of these listservs and would like to log on to the UT Lists page, please use the email address at which you are currently receiving messages. You can change this email address once you have successfully logged on. QUICK LINKS Office of Graduate Studies Office of Financial Services UT Health Services UT Learning Services International Office Human Subjects Review Additional information may be obtained from Benjamin Ibarra-Sevilla, Program Director. Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat