Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search External Transfer FAQ What majors may an undergraduate applicant choose? How do I apply as an external transfer student? What courses could I take before I externally transfer to the School of Architecture at UT Austin? How do you determine the equivalency of my transfer coursework? How competitive is it to get in to the School of Architecture at UT Austin? How long will it take for me to earn my degree? What is required to become an architect? What is required to become an interior designer? When are the courses required for the architecture and interior design degrees offered? What is required in a portfolio? If I have an associate's degree, do I apply as an external transfer student or a freshman? I already have an undergraduate degree, but would like to pursue a degree in Architecture. How do I apply? I already have an undergraduate degree, but would like to pursue a degree in Interior Design. How do I apply? I was accepted into a different College/School at UT Austin. Is it possible to internally transfer into the School of Architecture? WHAT MAJORS MAY AN UNDERGRADUATE APPLICANT CHOOSE? Undergraduate degrees are available in architecture and interior design. To be considered for admission, you must list architecture or interior design as your first-choice major. We do not review applications in which interior design or architecture is the second-choice major. The undergraduate programs offered by the School of Architecture include the following: Bachelor of Science in Interior Design Bachelor of Science in Architectural Studies Bachelor of Architecture Bachelor of Architecture/Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering Bachelor of Architecture/Bachelor of Arts in Plan II Back to Top How do I apply as an external transfer student? To be considered for fall-semester admission into the School of Architecture as an external transfer student, applicants must: transfer credit from an Architecture or Interior Design program have a minimum transfer GPA of at least 3.25 submit a portfolio The UT Austin Office of Admissions administers external transfer and international external transfer applications to the School of Architecture. Please note that external transfer admission to the School of Architecture is available only for the fall semester. UPLOAD Portfolio & Recommendation Letters Back to Top What courses Could I take before I externally transfer to The School of Architecture at UT Austin? You are not required to complete specific coursework in order to be eligible to apply for transfer. However, you may find it beneficial to complete coursework that is equivalent to the following UT Austin courses: M 408C (or M 408K and M 408L) -- Differential and Integral Calculus PHY 302K, 105M -- General Physics Technical Course: Mechanics, Heat, and Sound; and the corresponding lab PHY 302L, 105N -- General Physics Technical Course: Electricity and Magnetism, Light, Atomic and Nuclear Physics; and the corresponding lab E 316L, M, N, or P -- British, American, or World Literature RHE 306 -- Rhetoric and Writing HIS 315K and HIS 315L (or 2 other United States history courses that fulfill the Texas common core requirements) GOV 310L -- American Government and GOV 312L -- Issues and Policies in American Government or GOV 312P -- Constitutional Principles: Core Texts Students admitted for transfer from a college or university that is located outside of the state of Texas will need to have the transfer work evaluated by the Office of Admissions. You could potentially use the remainder of your transfer credit as electives in the degree program. Refer to the degree plan that you are interested in for the various elective requirements. The transferability of architecture or design courses will be determined after you are admitted to the program. Back to Top How do you determine the equivalency of my transfer coursework? For Core Curriculum requirements and other non-architecture/non-interior design coursework, you may use the Automated Transfer Equivalency (ATE) system if your coursework is from Texas. Texas residents may also refer to the Transfer Guide for Texas Community College Students for a list of course equivalencies. Students admitted for transfer from a college or university that is located outside of Texas will need to have the transfer work evaluated by the Office of Admissions. The transferability of architecture or interior design coursework taken at another college is determined after an applicant is admitted to the School of Architecture. Back to Top How competitive is it to get in to the School of Architecture at The University of Texas at Austin? Admission is very competitive. We receive around 250 external transfer applications per year. Admissions decisions are dependent in part on whether there is space available to admit transfer students. When space is available, external transfer students' portfolios are evaluated for possible placement into primarily second-year or third-year design studios. We do not admit students into studios beyond the third year of our design sequence. Due to the variation in how design sequences and curriculum at other universities' architecture and interior design programs are structured, there is very often not a one-to-one match in what architecture and interior design courses applicants have taken elsewhere to what is required for degrees offered by the School of Architecture at The University of Texas at Austin. If not admitted directly into the School of Architecture, but admitted to UT Austin, students may be eligible to later apply as an internal transfer into the architecture or interior design majors. Back to Top How long will it take for me to earn my degree? It depends on when you were admitted to the School of Architecture, the chosen degree plan, and the number of architecture/architectural interior design courses that transfer into the program. Often transfer students offered admission are admitted as first, second, or third-year design students. Back to Top WHAT is required to become an architect? There are three categories when it comes to pursuing registration as an architect: Education, Experience, and Examination. These requirements are often referred to as the “Three E's." Texas requires the following: Education [professional degree; The Bachelor of Architecture at The University of Texas at Austin is a NAAB-accredited professional degree] Experience [Architectural Experience Program] Examination [Architect Registration Examination] Please see the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards [NCARB] website for the most up-to-date information. Back to Top WHAT is required to become an Interior Designer? Becoming an interior designer invovles enrollment in a college of university program followed by several years of professional experience, typically under the supervision of a qualified interior designer. They must also pass a qualifying exam. We refer to these requirements as the “Three E’s”: Education [professional degree; CIDA-accredited Bachelor of Science in Interior Design or NAAB-accredited Bachelor of Architecture] Experience [2 years of experience under a registered interior designer or architect] Examination [NCIDQ Examination] Please see the National Council for Interior Design Qualification [NCIDQ] website for the most up-to-date information. Back to Top When are the courses required for the architecture and interior design degrees offered? Most of the courses required for the undergraduate architecture and interior design degrees are offered fall and spring semesters only. Most are offered during the day on weekdays. When courses are offered: Architecture When courses are offered: Interior Design Back to Top What is required in a portfolio? Applicants are required to upload a .pdf portfolio documenting their design work and containing no more than 40 images, up to 25 MB. Evidence showing an applicant’s original design work, spatial ability, and experience with hand drawing and model-making is required. Please note that portfolios will not be printed, and will be viewed only on computer. The portfolio helps the reviewers determine your potential to perform successfully in a studio-based design curriculum. In order to fairly and accurately review each application, the admissions committee requires evidence in one or more categories: The level of creative skill you possess in any medium. The extent of your interest in the architecture or interior design degrees, made evident through your abilities in composition, physical form-making, or perception of the environment. Your ability to translate ideas into physical form, even if in simple terms such as drawing. FORMAT Portfolios should be designed and formatted for on-screen viewing (avoid a double spread layout). Maximum file size is 25 MB. ATTRIBUTION For each project, list the applicant’s name, the project’s date, and an indication as to whether the project was academic, office-related, or personal. In the case of collaborative or professional work, the contribution by the applicant must be precisely described. ORGANIZATION The organization of the portfolio is a design exercise. It should be clear, succinct, and thoughtfully composed to best reflect your interests and skills. The quality of the work is of greater importance than quantity. The portfolio and recommendation letters must be uploaded by March 1. The portfolio may include design studio work that represents your best work, including drawings and photographs of models. Work may have been completed as part of formal coursework or independently. It is recommended that applicants identify the media and date of the work being shown. If the work was part of a course previously taken, please also indicate the instructor's name and affiliation. To be considered for admission into the School of Architecture, applicants must submit transfer credit from an Architecture or Interior Design program. The UT Austin Office of Admissions administers the University of Texas at Austin transfer student application. Back to Top If I have an Associate's Degree, do I apply as an external transfer student or a freshman? Since you already have college credit, you should apply as an external transfer student. Back to Top I already have an undergraduate degree, but would like to pursue a degree in Architecture. How do I apply? Prospective applicants who already have any undergraduate degree, or who are very close to attaining an undergraduate degree, may apply for the First-Professional Master of Architecture program is designed for those who have a degree in something other than architecture. Please visit www.utexas.edu/student/admissions/grad/ for more information. Back to Top I already have an undergraduate degree, but would like to pursue a degree in Interior Design. How do I apply? Prospective applicants with any undergraduate degree may apply for the First-Professional Master of Interior Design, which is designed for those with a degree in something other than interior design. Please visit www.utexas.edu/student/admissions/grad/ for more information. Back to Top I was accepted into a different College/School at UT Austin. Is it possible to internally transfer into the School of Architecture? Undergraduates admitted into another college at The University of Texas at Austin may apply to internally transfer to a major offered by the School of Architecture by submitting an internal transfer application. If you are able to maintain at least a 3.25 UT Austin GPA based on 24 or more coursework hours in-residence at UT Austin (completed by the end of a spring semester), you would then be eligible to apply for internal transfer into the School of Architecture. A portfolio is not required or accepted for internal transfer admission. Back to Top Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat