Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Style & Branding Powerful brands are built by creating and maintaining strong identities. The following information serves as an introduction to The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture's identification program. All communications emanating from the school should reinforce this identity. These standards have been specifically created for the school and should be adhered to consistently. If you notice specific situations or communication vehicles not addressed in these guidelines — or if you simply have questions and need help with identity applications — contact the Communications Coordinator. Our school's identity is in your hands. Treating it with care, clarity, and consistency will guarantee its success. Logo usage, official fonts, and colors Brandmark Colors Typography Business Cards Printed Stationery Electronic Letterhead Email Signature PowerPoint Writing Guidelines Brandmark Our brandmark (logo) is the most important graphic element used to identify the school and must be used on all official material coming from UTSOA. In order to command full attention and maintain visual integrity, the UTSOA brandmark must have a minimum amount of clear space equal to the height of the shield around it in all applications. See example below. The brandmark should not appear to be crowded by other elements. The UTSOA brandmark should never be reduced to a linear shape, surrounded by an outline, stretched, extended, or manipulated in any way. Brandmarks may only be reproduced in the proportions, formats, and colors specified below. No distortions or modifications of the brand are permitted. The nomenclature of the following configuration titles was formulated by the university. For downloadable files, click the text names under "Description of Use." Configuration Example Description of Use Formal The school recommends the Formal or Branded configurations for most applications. Branded The school recommends the Formal or Branded configurations for most applications. Program Available for Architectural History, Community and Regional Planning, Historic Preservation, Interior Design, Landscape Architecture, Sustainable Design, and Urban Design. Center Available for the Center for Sustainable Development and the Center for American Architecture and Design. Primary The Primary configuration emphasizes "Texas." Reversed "Knock-Out" Brandmark There will be times when it is appropriate to use the brandmark over a dark background color. In these situations, the logo may be inverted. For assistance in determining correct usage, contact Kelsey Stine. Example of Spacing Requirement The School of Architecture brandmark must have a minimum amount of clear space equal to the height of the shield around it. Refer to the style guide for spacing details and minimum size requirements on each brand configuration. Licensing & Sponsorship As instructed by the style guide, the brandmark may be used in most print and digital projects without additional approval. Any proposed use of the brandmark on merchandise (such as, but not limited to, t-shirts, mugs, pens, hats) must have prior written approval from the UT Office of Trademark Licensing and be produced under a licensing agreement by an approved vendor. For usage of the brandmark on sponsored material, please contact Kelsey Stine. Colors Our primary color is burnt orange Pantone 159. Our secondary color is gray Pantone 432. Find the CMYK, RGB, and HEX values of each in the chart below. The full palette of UT Brand Identity Colors. Typography Brandmark The font used in the new wordmark is GT Sectra. Chosen for its legibility, as well as its nod to academia, it is a contemporary serif typeface combining the calligraphy of the broad nip pen with the sharpness of the scalpel knife. Print Publications The School of Architecture uses BentonSans (sans serif) and Garamond (serif) for most print publications. GT Sectra (serif) is also acceptable. The majority of users will already have Garamond fonts installed on their computers. DIN and GT Sectra downloads are available below. Download GT Sectra fonts (Regular, Regular Italic, Book, and Book Italic). Some print projects may require a broader range of weights than offered above. If your project requires additional BentonSans or GT Sectra fonts, contact Kelsey Stine or request a license. Business Cards Business cards can be ordered directly from the UT Copy Services. Faculty and staff members may use an approved UTSOA account number for payment. Contact Justin Taylor for the account number and the required Signature Authority EID for that account. (If you are an adjunct faculty member, please contact Jeff Evelyn for approval before ordering.) Students may use a credit card or pay cash at a Copy Center office. At this time, you may choose from among three designs. Two designs use the university seal (a serif version and a sans serif version), and one design incorporates the new university brandmark. Note, our official mailing address is: The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 Printed Stationery The School of Architecture has a supply of letterhead, envelopes, and branded correspondence cards available for faculty and staff use, located in the Dean's Suite. Centers, programs, and business offices may order their own stationery for a reasonable cost directly through University Printing Services. Ordered in increments of 500, letterhead and envelopes can be "customized" to include program/center name, web address, or other specifics. UT EID and account number are required, and payment can be made through IDT. Electronic Letterhead When you need to deliver your message through e-mail or other electronic transfer, electronic letterhead is permitted, provided the correct template is used. A digital version of the school letterhead is available (to faculty and staff) as an MS Word template. Contact Kelsey Stine for the template. To ensure consistent formatting across multiple devices and software programs, save your letter as a PDF file. Email Signature The university has provided guidelines for email signatures. The School of Architecture recommends using this format instead of the brandmark file, which email recipients receive as an attachment. PowerPoint Faculty and staff may use PowerPoint templates with School of Architecture branding. Two format options are available for download in three different color themes. 4:3 Ratio: The default projector slide ratio of 4:3. The standard size for a 4:3 template is 10"w x 7.5"h. Download 4:3 white theme [ppt] Download 4:3 light gray theme [ppt] Download 4:3 dark gray theme [ppt] 16:9 Ratio: When using PowerPoint presentation on TV screens. The size for a 16:9 template is 10"w x 5.63"h. Download 16:9 white theme [ppt] Download 16:9 light gray theme [ppt] Download 16:9 dark gray theme [ppt] The university offers PowerPoint presentation tips here. Writing Guidelines The university has extensive writing guidelines available online. Topics include the correct usage of abbreviations, capitalization, punctuation, dates and numbers, tricky words, and more. View the university writing guidelines here. Below are several examples showing how to reference the university, the school, degree programs, and titles. The University of Texas at Austin The first time the university is referenced in text, the correct usage is “The University of Texas at Austin." Upon second reference and any time thereafter, use “the university” in lowercase format. (Presidential communications, which capitalize "the University" on subsequent references, are an exception.) When writing for internal audiences familiar with the university, it is acceptable to refer to the university as "UT Austin" (do not use a hyphen). School of Architecture The full, correct title of the school is "The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture." It may also be referred to as “the School of Architecture." Use lowercase “school,” not “School,” when it stands alone. When writing for internal audiences familiar with the school, it is acceptable to refer to the school as "UT Austin School of Architecture" or "UTSOA" (capital "O," not lowercase "o.") School of Architecture Degree Programs Capitalize the names of degree programs except when used in a person’s title. Correct: He's a student in the Community and Regional Planning Program. Correct: She's a community and regional planning professor. Use lowercase for the word “program” when it stands alone. Correct: She's been in the program for three years. Capitalize the discipline when it’s used to mean the degree program. Use lowercase for the discipline when it’s used in a general sense. Correct: She's a professor in the Sustainable Design Program. Correct: She's a landscape architecture professor. Correct: He majored in interior design. Correct: She received a master's degree in architectural history. Titles An individual’s title is capitalized only when used before the name. Do not capitalize an occupational designation, only a true title. Correct: We met Dean Michelle Addington. Correct: The dean will speak at the symposium. Correct: Assistant Dean for Administration Jeff Evelyn issued the memo. Correct: Our speaker will be architect Bjarke Ingels, principal at Bjarke Ingels Group. Correct: Her years of hard work were acknowledged when she earned the rank of professor emeritus. Titles following an individual’s name should appear in lowercase. Use lowercase when a title is used alone. Correct: The dean of the School of Architecture will address the group. Correct: Allan Shearer, associate dean of the School of Architecture, will host the reception. The official names of honorary chairs and university professorships should always be capitalized. Correct: Michael Benedikt, the Hal Box Endowed Chair in Urbanism, published a book. University Writing Guide Business Cards Email Signature Guidelines Life & Work Headlines Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat