Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Dean's Message December 22, 2020 Dear School of Architecture Community, As the last exams and reviews have been administered, and the remaining students have now begun to disappear from campus for the much-needed end-of-year break, we are beginning to look back on what has been both a difficult and yet successful fall. Unquestionably, no operational or communal aspect of the school was the same as it was in previous years. The energy, the cacophony, the excitement, and, yes, even the anxiety that once filled our halls, our buildings, and our courtyard was replaced by but a gentle murmur that bubbled up now and again in the stillness and quiet that settled on our campus. The studios that were once a hive of activity had just a few students sitting at their desks. The copiers that were constantly spewing out reams of readings and syllabi instead gathered dust. The tables of our favored haunt, Caffe Medici, were no longer the site of the unofficial “office hours” of our faculty. The faces of our classmates, colleagues, and friends that once brightened our days flattened into tiny out-of-focus squares on our laptops. Our experience in the spring after we went on-line did not prepare us for the fall. We were already into the latter half of the semester then, and our attention and energy were concertedly focused on finishing what we had started. Many at the university thought we would be open again before the semester concluded, and were also still hoping that graduation would be in person. No one was thinking that the fall would be anything other than what it had been in previous years. What was at first thought to be a few week disruption in our lives lengthened into months, and will now extend beyond a year, if not longer. The communal spirit in our country that originally emerged as we were facing an unknown threat has devolved into ennui, cynicism, disengagement, disbelief, mistrust, and anger as the effects and impacts of the pandemic wear on us all. How could a university with over 65,000 students, staff, and faculty re-open in the fall without a commonly held view regarding the seriousness of this disease? Many of the nation’s most prestigious private universities, as well as some of the major public universities, decided to skirt such a question by moving to entirely on-line instruction, even insofar as they did plan to have their campuses open for some research activities. The decision at The University of Texas at Austin to re-open in the fall with a mixture of online, in-person, and hybrid classes was intended to preserve the structure and systems of those educational and research activities that needed physical engagement. This tri-partite organization was not simply a matter of assigning courses to a particular mode but rather necessitated a full-on reconfiguration of every process and space at our school (shout out to our amazing staff and faculty for designing and managing this process and to the many students who helped us make it happen). By the standards of the pre-COVID past, it might seem odd to call the fall semester successful. Many activities, including all national and international travel, were canceled. The free-wheeling discourse that is a hallmark of our school was subdued and limited by the temporal, formal, and dimensional constraints of Zoom. The ‘open door’ access that kept conversations, machines, and pencils in constant flow and movement nearly 24/7 was clamped down to but a trickle. The amazing resources of our school and university were still available but only under highly controlled and prescribed circumstances. Books could still be checked out of the library, but none of the browsing that so many of us credit with opening up new worlds of ideas was possible. Files could still be sent to laser cutters, robots, and 3D printers, but the hands-on experimentation with new modes of technology had to be restricted. Our greatest loss, however, was of the informal, dynamic, and supportive collaboration that is the sine qua non of our work and educational processes. We are constantly testing our ideas with our team members, our cohort, our friends, and our advisors. We ask for their advice, we offer them suggestions, we discuss next steps moving forward. We lean over their desks to draw with them, we make coffee and taco runs late at night and early in the morning so that all are supported and nourished. None of the professions for which our school prepares students are ones where a solitary individual works independently. The complexity of the many domains and decisions that constitute the design and stewardship of the built environment requires many voices, many hands in constant dialogue and iteration. But we found a way to make it work, to still deliver the quality of education that our school is so renowned for. We found our moments of success in recognizing our new situation, adapting, and establishing new ideas about what success might entail: the local community engagement of many of our hybrid courses and studios, the sharing of lecture series across our peer university network, the new modes of course delivery that expanded access to academic resources and content, the additional internships that our staff and faculty worked so hard to secure, the intrepid student leaders who served as health ambassadors. And the most important measure of all, we finished the semester safe and healthy. There was no in-school community transmission of COVID to any of our constituents. Indeed, UT, and the School of Architecture in particular, were perhaps the safest places to be in the entire city of Austin. I am proud of the planning and work we did to create and manage this safe haven as I firmly believe that our first and greatest obligation as public servants is to protect the health of our constituents. It took the commitment of everyone to make this happen, and our deep gratitude is deserved by every student, staff member, and faculty member who played a role in preserving this safe community. The pandemic was and continues to be a disruption for us all, and has had devastating consequences for so many. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to keep our health and livelihoods have had to alter most aspects of our quotidian life, and our hearts deeply ache for those whose lives have been upended and ever more so for those who have lost loved ones. We all keep hoping for a return to “normal,” although “normal” has always meant that someone, many ones, were suffering somewhere even if not within our view. I assume that much of the reason for the repeated references to “getting back to normal” is to indicate that there is an inherent order in our world — a way that things are supposed to be—and that no matter the storm, or how buffeted about we are, our ship will always right itself. We find comfort in the inertia and safety of the normal. All is right when things are normal. Not normal means loss, it represents change, it embodies unpredictability and unknowability. If normal is indeed safe, steady, and predictable, then it is also the provenance of privilege and exclusivity. Only those who have what they need can suffer loss, only those whose lives are stable can be destabilized. There are not many in this world who can afford to isolate themselves from change. My challenge to all is thus: let us not strive or yearn for a return to the “normal” of the past. Let us instead embrace and build upon the constituent core of endurance that enabled us to adapt and respond to the pandemic. If that which is normal is a barricade against change, then that which endures will flow and expand through seas upon seas of ever-changing waters. If there is any set of disciplines that are the philosophers, the purveyors, and the producers of change, it is those that comprise our school. We understand ancient civilizations from the traces that remain of their urban form. We still teach Architecture from Vitruvius’ two-thousand-year-old treatise: De architectura. The public spaces that we have created form the scaffolding for how we engage with each other. Our cities and our building fabric encode the cultural memories of societies. Our landscapes and infrastructures guide occupation and development across multiple temporal and spatial scales. And we carry enormous responsibility for the health, safety, and welfare of the greater public, just as we are the ones who craft the most intimate and individual of experiences. We are continually building upon that which endures, that which provides for all in the past, all that is now, and all that will be in the future. If the rest of the world is hoping for a return to the past, a retrenchment to normalcy, then we must be the ones charting a new path forward. Much of what we must do requires that we begin by asking deeper and more critical questions. We have a tendency to leap past the difficult questions and instead demand that quick solutions be implemented. It is easier and more satisfying to see others produce a quick fix than it is for us to question our own beliefs and ingrained methods. How we address the pandemic is not just about following the mitigation protocols or waiting for vaccine delivery but in how we reconsider the very nature and construction of public space in the future. How the world deals with justice and equity for all is not a matter of creating a few more committees or ensuring that a few more BIPOC are brought in so that numbers represent demographic proportions, but rather a matter of peeling back the shroud that obscures the systems, structures, practices, and beliefs that created and maintain such imbalance in the world. How our professions tackle climate change must be more than tweaking a few material and technology choices on a checklist of best practices, but instead initiating a complete rethinking of the why and how we build. How our school and educational institutions develop canon and curricula is not just for facilitating our own disciplines and students, but for elevating the discourse and knowledge for all. These questions, which are fundamentally about who we are, what we value, and how we think and work, are not ones that will readily yield a neat slate of initiatives for a mission accomplished scenario. These are life-long questions that are never set aside, that we must return to again and again—to test, to evaluate, to reconsider, to rewrite. As we are about to step into 2021, I ask that we as a school begin to formulate our larger questions as we develop a long-term roadmap guiding our planning, priorities, decision-making, and curricula. Every constituent of our school should play a role in this, and we also need to bring in voices from beyond our walls—the communities and professions that we serve, the partners and collaborators we must team with to truly bring change to bear. Progress will likely be slow, and there will be times when we will have to backtrack and readjust. But if we are committed to the hard work of doing this right, rather than just expediently, we lay the groundwork for generations to come. For this, I have great hope in the future that we will have a hand in leading. During the holiday break, please stay safe, hug your loved ones, and get much-needed rest. I look forward to working with you this spring! And thank you to every one of you who kept us safe this past year. Michelle D. Michelle Addington Dean Henry M. Rockwell Chair in Architecture BPI_170712_0525-L.jpg Dean Michelle Addington Goldsmith Magnolias from Afar.jpg Dean's Message For All 3.31.20 UTSOA Living Wall Fall 2019 Message from Dean Michelle Addington 10.2.19 CourtMagnolias.jpg Spring 2019 Message from Dean Michelle Addington 2.5.19 ONDA Wall Presentation.jpg A Message from Dean Michelle Addington 9.10.18 DeanAddingtonJan2018.png Identity and Vision: A Message from Dean Michelle Addington 1.16.18 Dean's Message Web Graphic.jpg Looking Forward: A Message from Dean Michelle Addington 7.6.17 Previous Messages from the Dean: July 6, 2017 January 16, 2018 September 10, 2018 February 5, 2019 March 21, 2020 About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat