Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Internal Transfer FAQ What is it like to major in Architecture or Interior Design? What is required to become an architect? What is required to become an interior designer? How does the Architecture program at UT Austin compare with other schools? Where do graduates of the School of Architecture work after graduating? I was accepted into another college/school at UT Austin, but I want to enroll in the School of Architecture. What do I need to do? If I am accepted, when and how will I be notified? How many students are accepted and who is accepted? Can I start taking classes in my desired major? When are the courses required for the architecture and interior design degrees offered? What are the requirements to be considered as a summer start design student? Are there other opportunities I can take part in to prepare? How long will I be in school to get my degree? What is it like to major in architecture or interior design? Visit the following external sites for thorough descriptions. Archiculture: a documentary film that explores the architectural studio Do You Want to Be an Architect? What is an Interior Designer? Cut and Paste Primer on Architecture School Part I Cut and Paste Primer on Architecture School Part II Do You Want to Be An Architect, the College Years 100 Years of Texas Architecture and Building Back to Top WHAT is required to become an architect? There are three categories when it comes to pursuing registration as an architect: Education, Experience, and Examination. These requirements are often referred to as the “Three E's." Texas requires the following: Education [professional degree; the Bachelor of Architecture at The University of Texas at Austin is a NAAB-accredited professional degree] Experience [Architectural Experience Program] Examination [Architect Registration Examination] Please see the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards [NCARB] website for the most up-to-date information. Back to Top WHAT is required to become an Interior Designer? Becoming an interior designer invovles enrollment in a college of university program followed by several years of professional experience, typically under the supervision of a qualified interior designer. They must also pass a qualifying exam. We refer to these requirements as the “Three E’s”: Education [professional degree; CIDA-accredited Bachelor of Science in Interior Design or NAAB-accredited Bachelor of Architecture] Experience [2 years of experience under a registered interior designer or architect] Examination [NCIDQ Examination] Please see the National Council for Interior Design Qualification [NCIDQ] website for the most up-to-date information. Back to Top How does the Architecture program at UT Austin compare with other schools? Our Bachelor of Architecture is consistently ranked in the top 10 nationally by DesignIntelligence. The most recent comparison of rankings is provided by Architectural Record. Back to Top Where do graduates of the School of Architecture work after graduating? Employment reports are available from the School of Architecture's Career Services center. Back to Top I was accepted into another College/School at UT Austin, but I want to enroll in the School of Architecture. What do I need to do? Undergraduates currently enrolled in another college or school at The University of Texas at Austin who wish to pursue a major offered by the School of Architecture must submit an internal transfer application. In order to be eligible to apply, students must meet the following requirements: Email soa-ug@austin.utexas.edu and request to enroll in the SOA internal transfer canvas course Completion of at least 24 credit hours in-residence at UT Austin by the end of a spring semester Minimum 3.25 UT Austin GPA Submission of online UT Internal Transfer application by the May 1st deadline Two (2) essays; prompts included in online application Two (2) recommendation letters from UT faculty* You must meet the criteria to transfer from one division to another within the University Meeting these requirements does not guarantee admission. *UT faculty are professors. Submit letters from two UT faculty to be most competitive. (TA's, FIG mentors, academic advisors, program coordinators, and staff members are not faculty.) Tips on talking to professors or requesting a recommendation letter can be found through simple internet searches. Back to Top If I am accepted, when and how will I be notified? Decisions are made after the date all spring grades are posted at the end of the spring semester. You will be notified by email. Back to Top How many students are accepted and who is accepted? The number of internal transfer students admitted is limited and varies from year to year depending upon available space. Emphasis is given to strong performance in university courses, especially classes relevant to the degree program to which the applicant is applying, and to the applicant's written essays. Back to Top Can I start taking classes in my desired major? Yes, UT Austin students who are applying for internal transfer can take certain architecture and interior design courses. Prospective Architecture majors: ARC 308 - Architecture and Society ARC 318K - History of Architecture, Survey I (Offered only in spring semesters. No prerequisites are enforced for non-majors.) ARC 318L - History of Architecture, Survey II (Offered only in fall semesters. No prerequisites are enforced for non-majors.) Prospective Interior Design majors: ARI 318K, Interiors and Society * (Offered only in fall semesters.) ARI 318M, Interior Design History I * (Offered only in spring semesters. No prerequisites are enforced for non-majors.) PSY 301, Introduction to Psychology ARC 318L, History of Architecture, Survey II (Offered only in fall semesters. No prerequisites are enforced for non-majors.) ARH, any art history course * Requires instructor permission. After permission is received, please contact the Undergraduate Dean's office to be added. The remainder of your schedule should be filled with courses that fulfill university core requirements. Back to Top When are the courses required for the architecture and interior design degrees offered? Most of the courses required for the undergraduate architecture and interior design degrees are offered fall and spring semesters only. Most are offered during the day on weekdays. When courses are offered: Architecture When courses are offered: Interior Design Back to Top What are the requirements to be considered as a summer start design student? Students who intend to begin in the summer must: Indicate on the application that they intend to begin the design sequence in the summer and enter the second year of the program the following fall semester Meet the prerequisites (applies only to prospective architecture majors): Credit for M 408C (or at least M 408K) and PHY 302K/105M (or PHY 303K/105M) is required before enrolling in the summer studio coursework. The summer program consists of both summer sessions. Students are in class from 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. every day. Back to Top Are there other opportunities I can take part in to prepare? Yes. Attend the School of Architecture Lecture Series. Visit the events calendar for information on these events. You may also get involved in the student organization that interests you. Back to Top How long will I be in school to get my degree? It depends on the degree program you have decided to pursue and whether you begin the design sequence in the summer or fall. You may look at the required courses for architecture and interior design, and you may run an interactive degree audit on the architecture or interior design major. Back to Top Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat