Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Courses Overview Official course descriptions are available in the Graduate Catalog. Media Sequence LAR 381. Visual Communication. LAR 381R. Advanced Topics in Visual Communication. Advanced topics in media and interpretation, such as freehand drawing, measured drawings, aspects of computer graphics, geographic information systems, and photography. Six laboratory hours a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser. Design Sequence LAR 390C. Foundation Design Studio. An introduction to the fundamental components of landscape architecture and graphic communication. Students are introduced to basic drawing and representational skills. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, admission to the Master of Landscape Architecture program, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 383. Landscape Architecture Design Studio I. First core design studio that introduces students to the practice of landscape architectural design, representation, and theoretical practices. Fifteen laboratory hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, Landscape Architecture 380, credit or registration for Landscape Architecture 385K and 388K, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 682T. Landscape Architecture Design Studio II. Second core design studio that examines the issues, methods, and theories studied in Landscape Architecture 682 with increasing levels of complexity. Fifteen laboratory hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, Landscape Architecture 682 with a grade of at least C, credit or registration for Landscape Architecture 385L and 388L, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 694T.Landscape Architecture Design Studio III. Third core design studio that engages issues, theories, and methods central to the planning and design of large projects. Emphasis is given to the resolution of multiple interrelated objectives. Fifteen laboratory hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing,Landscape Architecture 682T with a grade of at least C, credit or registration for Landscape Architecture 385M and 385N, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 695. Landscape Architecture Design Studio IV. Fourth core design studio that engages theory and practice, and provides students with an opportunity to consider a landscape project from initial research and site investigation to detailed design, implementation, and technical resolution. Fifteen laboratory hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, Landscape Architecture 694T with a grade of at least C, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 696. Advanced Design Studio. Elective studios offering students an opportunity to explore particular topics in landscape, often in collaboration with architecture and community and regional planning students. Ten laboratory hours a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: Graduate standing,Landscape Architecture 695 with a grade of at least C, and consent of the graduate adviser. History/Theory Sequence LAR 388K. History and Theory of Landscape Architecture I. Landscape architecture in formal, social, and cultural terms in the Western and Eastern worlds. Covers the development of ideas and principles related to context, designer, and text. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 388L. History and Theory of Landscape Architecture II. Landscape architecture from 1700 to the present, with a focus on design language, theoretical frameworks, and the critical components of contemporary landscape design and thought. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, Landscape Architecture 388K with a grade of at least C, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 388. Topics in Landscape Architecture History and Theory. Seminars on advanced topics in history and theory, including analysis, readings, and critique of significant positions, practice, and discourse. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Landscape Architecture 388L or consent of the graduate adviser. Technology Sequence LAR 385K. Technology Workshop I. Introduces the principles, processes, and practices of site manipulation, description, and construction techniques. Includes systems of measurement, grading, earthwork, site circulation, and site drainage, and examines the representation, application, and integration of site-related operations. Two lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 385L. Landscape Technology Workshop II. Materials and methods of landscape construction, advanced site work techniques, and theories for material selection and application within the design process. Examines the representation, application, and integration of detail and design intent. Two lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, Landscape Architecture 385K with a grade of at least C, and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 385M. Design Methods. Examines methods of analysis and composition for landscape architecture and urban design. Readings, lectures, and discussions are applied to on-site assignments. Subjects include spatial, social, and ecological factors and their interactions. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Offered on the letter-grade basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; Landscape Architecture 385L with a grade of at least C; credit or registration for Landscape Architecture 694T; or consent of the graduate adviser. Natural Systems Courses LAR 385. Topics in Natural Systems. Elective seminars in aspects of environmental analysis, ecological and systemic approaches, sustainable development, and applied methods of geographic information systems. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser. LAR 387K Living Systems Design I The course examines the inter-connections between geological, biological, and social systems of the designed landscape. The course covers such topics as plant ecology, plant communities, soils, planting design and plant identification. LAR 387L Living Systems Design II The course examines the design of living systems for the urban environment including soils, paving, plants and best management practices. Course participants engage subjects such as aesthetics, ecosystems service optimization and landscapes on structure. Professional Courses LAR 386. Professional Practice. Ethical, legal, economic, and administrative processes and responsibilities of the landscape architect practitioner. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser. Independent Research Courses Consult with the School of Architecture’s Graduate Program Administrator for information. LAR 397. Master Design Study in Landscape Architecture-Preparation. Investigation of topics in landscape architecture selected by the student in preparation for Landscape Architecture 697K. The equivalent of three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, cumulative GPA of 3.8, permission of the Graduate Adviser and application approval from the Graduate Studies Committee. LAR 389. Research in Landscape Architecture. Investigation of topics in landscape architecture selected by the student with approval of the Graduate Studies Committee. Independent study. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, cumulative GPA of 3.8, permission of the Graduate Adviser and application approval from the Graduate Studies Committee. LAR 689. Research in Landscape Architecture. Investigation of topics in landscape architecture selected by the student with approval of the Graduate Studies Committee. Independent study. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, cumulative GPA of 3.8, permission of the Graduate Adviser and application approval from the Graduate Studies Committee. LAR 697K. Master's Design Study in Landscape Architecture. An independent design project in which the investigation, design process, and critical evaluation are formulated by the student. The project must have a theoretical and research base, provide a comprehensive exploration of a landscape design topic, and offer insight for the furthering of landscape studies. Eighteen laboratory hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, Landscape Architecture 696 and 397, cumulative GPA of 3.8, permission of the Graduate Adviser and application approval from the Graduate Studies Committee. Revised 03/25/2019 Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Urban Design Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat