Jump to navigation Brandmark inverse Desktop Brandmark Give eNews login Life & Work Headlines Publications Events Student Work Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Courses Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Student Funding Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Materials Lab Professional Residency Program Thermal Lab Urban Information Lab Visual Resources Collection Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Center for Sustainable Development USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity Support & Donate Faculty Students Alumni Staff Contacts Search Life & Work Headlines UTSOA COVID-19 Campus Updates Fall 2021 COVID-19 Updates Student Support Services Contact and Availability Publications eNews eNews Archive CAAD Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications ISSUE: O'Neil Ford Series Planning Forum Platform Style & Branding Events Goldsmith Interviews Past Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Series Spring 2016 Series Fall 2015 Series Spring 2015 Series Fall 2014 Series Additional SOA and non-SOA events Student Work Design Excellence 2020-2021 Design Excellence 2019-2020 Final Reviews Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 MSHP Thesis 2020 Faculty Work Alumni Work Student Affairs Undergraduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Helpful Info Independent Study Instructions SOA Success Scholars Graduate Office Academic Grievances Grade Disputes Certificate in Latin American Architecture Stackable Graduate Certificates Architecture: Building Technology Architecture: Community Equity Design Architecture: Digital Technology Architecture: Environmental Equity Design Architecture: Latin American Architecture Architectural History: Political, Social, and Cultural Histories of Architecture Community and Regional Planning: Introduction to City Planning Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: Building Materials and Documentation Historic Preservation: Cultural Heritage: History and Research Interior Design: Theories of Interiors and Spatial Design Sustainable Design: Technology and Environment Urban Design: Housing and Urbanism Career Services CARE Counselor Dean's Ambassadors Student Awards Dean's Design Distinction Design Excellence Spring 2022 Nominees Fall 2021 Nominees Summer 2021 Nominees 2020-2021 Winners Spring 2021 Nominees Fall 2020 Nominees Summer 2020 Nominees 2019-2020 Winners Spring 2020 Nominees Fall 2019 Nominees Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Undergraduate Architecture Student Council Material Exchange Graduate School of Architecture Representative Council Student Organizations Study Abroad International Travel Policy Student Funding Thank-you Letters Courses Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Past Courses Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Resources Tour Student Appointments Programs Architecture Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degrees M Arch Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum Vertical Studios Principles and Intentions The Four Streams MAAD PhD Degree Requirements Courses & Curriculum Studio Culture Interdisciplinary Studies NAAB Accreditation Info Licensure Faculty Students Work Architectural History Faculty MA & PhD Programs For MArch Students Admissions Students Recent Dissertations in Architectural History Publications Community and Regional Planning MSCRP Program Current Students Dual Degree and Certificate Programs CRP/Latin American Studies CRP/LA Faculty CRP/LA Projects CRP/LA Students CRP/LA Alumni CRP/LA Contact CRP/LBJ School of Public Affairs CRP/LBJ Alumni CRP/LBJ Contact CRP/LBJ Students CRP/School of Law CRP/Sustainable Design CRP/Urban Design PhD program PhD Degree Requirements PhD Projects Doctoral Student Profiles Doctoral Alumni Profiles Program Strengths Faculty City Forum Lecture Series CRP Student Organization Events Resources GIS Education & Resources GIS Showcase GIS Tutorials GIS Data Online Planning Resources Career Prospects 2015-16 Strategic Plan Performance Measures Support CRP International Students Student Financial Support Historic Preservation Program & Degrees Offered Courses Overview Frequently Asked Questions Links of Interest Conservation Lab Work News Resources Faculty Students Alumni Student Historic Preservation Association Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees MID I MID II Student Achievement Licensure Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Program Mission Degree Programs + Information MLA I Degree Requirements Sample Curriculum MLA II Landscape Studies Minor Courses Overview Landscape Architecture Advanced Electives Work Faculty Students Program Disclosure Licensure FAQ Sustainable Design Degree Programs and Procedures Master of Architecture Master of Advanced Architectural Design Master of Science in Sustainable Design PhD in History, Preservation and Sustainability Core Course Schedule Student Work & Scholarship Faculty Students Academics Alumni Resources and Links of Interest Support Sustainable Design Work Urban Design Degree Programs Courses Overview ULI Competition CRP/Urban Design Faculty Students Work Apply Become a Longhorn Undergraduate Admissions Freshman FAQ External Transfer FAQ Internal Transfer Internal Transfer FAQ Visit the Undergraduate Program Contact Undergraduate Minors Graduate Admissions Application Instructions M Arch MAAD MAAH MID I MID II MLA I MLA II MSAS MSCRP MSHP MSSD MSUD PhD in ARC PhD in CRP Graduate Admissions FAQ Visit Contact Virtual Graduate Office Visit Advanced Studies Architecture Community & Regional Planning Interior Design Landscape Architecture Urban Design Student Funding Financial Aid Recruitment Funding Continuing Student Scholarships Scholarship Recipient Instructions Independent Research Travel Scholarships Sample Travel Proposals Travel Award Recipient Instructions Academic Employment GRA Information TA Information Other Resources Student Computer Policy Resources Career Services Student Resources COVID Employment Resources Employer Resources Events Job Board Employment Reports Alumni Resources Conservation Lab Build Lab Technology Lab Technology Desk Equipment & Facilities Room and Equipment Reservations Digital Fabrication Lab Robotics Lab Computer Classrooms Software Personal Computing Software Support Software Downloads Instructional Technology Tools Classroom Technology Tech Support Technology Resources and Innovation Group Materials Lab About Collection Highlights Circulation Digital Collections Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Building Reuse, Reuse in Building Digital Collection Green Infrastructure Green Infrastructure Digital Collection Events Research Material Methods Resources Local Resources More Materials Contact Professional Residency Program Apply Firms Schedule Courses Fees PRP Now! Thermal Lab About Projects Publications Urban Information Lab About People Work Funded Projects Headlines Visual Resources Collection Exhibitions Events Publications Connect Libraries & Centers Alexander Architectural Archives Architecture and Planning Library Center for American Architecture and Design Events CAAD Book Launches CAAD Symposia Friday Lunch Forums Publications About CENTER Centerline Other CAAD Publications Contact Center for Sustainable Development About Faculty Fellows Partners Staff Research Publications Public Interest Design Texas CityLab Projects Pflugerville Leander UT Austin Events FAQ Texas Housing Lab About People Faculty Graduate Students Affiliates Contact FAQ Research Publications Classes Resources Recently Added Projects Resources Finding Funding Grant Administration Snell USDOT UTC Cooperative Mobility for Competitive Megaregions About Mission & Vision Dean's Message Diversity SOAvoices Race & Gender in the Built Environment Fellows Support & Donate Endowments Friends of Architecture Current Tours & Events Past Tours & Events Gift and Estate Planning Goldsmith Society UTSOA Advisory Council Contact Faculty Students Alumni Stay Connected Staff Contacts Search Courses Overview A comprehensive list of all courses and their descriptions is available in the Undergraduate Catalog. Design Sequence ARI 310K. Design I – Foundation Studio. An introduction to the forms and methods of design for architects and interior designers, with an emphasis on inhabitation including body, light, and movement. Taught in a studio format by faculty members under the direction of a faculty coordinator. Three lecture hours and six laboratory hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Registration for Architectural Interior Design 311K or Architecture 311K. ARI 310L. Design II – Foundation Studio. An introduction to the forms and methods of design for architects and interior designers, with an emphasis on environment, including color, material, and texture. Taught in a studio format by faculty members under the direction of a faculty coordinator. Three lecture hours and six laboratory hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: The following coursework with a grade of at least C in each: Architectural Interior Design 310K and 311K, or Architecture 310K and 311K; and registration for Architectural Interior Design 311L. ARI 320K. Design III – Interiors Studio. Focus on the physical and psychological needs of the inhabitants of interior space, with an emphasis on conceptual process and diagrammatic techniques. Projects deal with real building situations and introduce implications of fenestration, structure, and materials. Nine hours of lecture and studio a week for one semester. Prerequisite: The following coursework with a grade of at least C in each: Architectural Interior Design 310L and 311L, or Architecture 310L and 311L; and registration for Architectural Interior Design 221K or Architecture 221K. ARI 520L. Design IV – Interiors Studio. Explores linkages between multiple interior spaces and the study of spatial thresholds. Investigates individual spaces in relation to the body and the surrounding environment, utilizing a clearly defined program. Fifteen hours of lecture and studio a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 320K, Architecture 415K, and Architectural Interior Design 221K or Architecture 221K, with a grade of at least C in each. ARI 530K. Design V – Interiors Studio. Examination of the elements of interior space and scale, including specific human factors. Particular emphasis on the design, documentation, production, and placement of objects in interiors. Fifteen hours of lecture and studio a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 520L and 434K with a grade of at least C in each. ARI 530T. Design VI – Interiors Studio. Capstone studio with specific design projects from current markets. Application of code issues, regulatory restraints, fire safety, and regulations for accessibility in interiors. Fifteen hours of lecture and studio a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 324K and 530K with a grade of at least C in each. ARI 560R. Advanced Interior Design Studio. Synthesis of components covered in other interior design courses, such as human aspects, place-making, the interior envelope, transitional spaces, and conceptual processes. Fifteen hours of lecture and studio a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 530T with a grade of at least C and satisfactory completion of a third-year portfolio review. Visual Communication Sequence ARI 311K. Visual Communication I. Study and application of drawing and other communication skills for designers, including formal and spatial studies, life drawing, and perspective. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Registration for Architectural Interior Design 310K or Architecture 310K. ARI 311L. Visual Communication II. Study and application of drawing and other communication skills for designers, including color, light and shadow, and projections. Employs manual and digital techniques. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: The following coursework with a grade of at least C in each: Architectural Interior Design 310K and 311K, or Architecture 310K and 311K; and registration for Architectural Interior Design 310L or Architecture 310L. ARI 221K. Visual Communication III. Introduction to digital modeling as well as principles of digital fabrication. Includes various modes of output such as drawings, renderings, and physical models. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: The following coursework with a grade of at least C in each: Architectural Interior Design 310L and 311L, or Architecture 310L and 311L; and registration for Architectural Interior Design 320K or Architecture 320K. History/Theory Courses ARI 318K. Interiors and Society. Concepts, principles, and elements of interior design, presented in artistic, philosophical, and professional contexts. Includes a basic historical overview of the development of interior design. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: For students in the School of Architecture, none; for others, consent of instructor. ARI 318M. Interior Design History. Survey of interior design from antiquity through the eighteenth century, including theoretical, social, technical, and environmental forces. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 318K with a grade of at least C. ARI 368R. Interior Design History II. Study of function and aesthetics, and decoration and use, emphasizing interiors from the nineteenth century to the present. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 318M with a grade of at least C. ARC 318L. World Architecture: The Industrial Revolution to the Present. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: For students in the School of Architecture, Architecture 318K with a grade of at least C; for others, twelve semester hours of college coursework is recommended. ARI 350R. Topics in Interior Design Theory. Seminar in a variety of topics. Designed to broaden the student's knowledge of interior design and to encourage critical and theoretical thinking in the discipline. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: For students in the School of Architecture, upper-division standing; for others, upper-division standing and consent of instructor. ARI 368S. Topics in the History of Architecture and Architectural Interior Design. Seminars and lecture/seminars on advanced topics in the history of architectural interior design. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. May be repeated for credit when the topics vary. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing; and for students in the School of Architecture, Architecture 318L with a grade of at least C; for others, consent of instructor. Technology Courses ARC 415K. Construction I. Introduction to building construction, materials, and structures. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. ARI 434K. Construction II – Interior Materials and Assemblies. Core concepts in interior materials, assemblies, and systems. Includes material properties, environmental and sustainable issues, attachment, detailing, and product specifications. Projects encourage manipulation and assembly of various material systems. Case studies using material samples, and field trips to sites of fabrication. Six hours of lecture and laboratory a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architecture 415K with a grade of at least C. ARI 324K. Environmental Controls I. A survey of acoustics, color, light, illumination, and electrical and information systems in architectural interiors. Includes techniques of documentation. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours a week for one semester. Architectural Interior Design 324K and Architecture 334K may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 520L or Architecture 520L with a grade of at least C. ARC 334L. Environmental Controls II. A survey of heating, ventilating, air conditioning, vertical transportation, and wiring and plumbing systems in buildings, including techniques of documentation. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 324K with a grade of at least C. Professional Foundation Courses ARI 362. Interior Design Practice. Business procedures, professional practice, design project control and management, and professional ethics. Documents procedures for interior design. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing or consent of instructor. ARI 130. Interior Design Internship. Practical application of design procedures in a professional design office. At least 250 hours of work in one semester. Prerequisite: Architectural Interior Design 530T. ARI 338. Designing for Human Behavior. Issues of mood, privacy, perception, proxemics, and preferences applied to the design of interiors. Three lecture hours a week for one semester. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing. Programs Architecture Architectural History Community and Regional Planning Historic Preservation Interior Design Undergraduate Degree Courses Overview Student Achievement Licensure Undergraduate Minor Graduate Degrees Faculty Students News Work Studio Culture Landscape Architecture Sustainable Design Urban Design Quicklinks The University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture 310 Inner Campus Drive B7500 Austin, TX 78712-1009 512.471.1922 UT Privacy UT Web Accessibility Get Adobe Acrobat