Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Advising Graduate Students Graduate Advising Faculty Staff Alumni UC Riverside School of Business A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management Search About Our School Our Dean Our Impacts Our Distinctions Our Faculty Our Staff Our Location Programs Graduate School (AGSM) Graduate Programs Master of Business Administration Professional MBA Master of Finance Master of Professional Accountancy Master of Science in Business Analytics Career Development Center Current Students Undergraduate Undergraduate Program Actuarial Science Major Business Major Business Minor Current Students Ph.D. Program Faculty & Research Faculty Accounting Finance Information Systems Management Marketing Operations & Supply Chain Management Research News Teaching and Innovation Awards Center for Economic Forecasting & Development Behavioral Lab Alumni & Partners Recruit Executive Fellows Dean's Speaker Series Dean's Advisory Council Signature Events Alumni Invest Support the School of Business Ways to Give Contact us News & Events News Business News Research News Newsletter Blog Events Events Signature Events Publications UCR Home Quick Links Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Advising Graduate Students Graduate Advising Faculty Staff Alumni UCR Business Commencement on June 10, 2022 View Commencement info & FAQ The UCR School of Business educates and develops leaders who are as diverse as the challenges they face, the workforces they lead, and the enterprises they grow. With nearly 20,000 alumni, the School of Business is developing the human capital that drives the region’s economic growth and vitality. for Social Mobility (UCR), U.S. News & World Report, 2022 UT Dallas, Research Ranking, Operations & Supply Chain Research Top Marketing Colleges, University HQ, 2021 Public University (UCR), U.S. News & World Report, 2022 MBA Program & Undergraduate Program, U.S. News & World Report, 2023 Undergraduate Programs Discover your options The UCR School of Business runs the largest undergraduate business program in the University of California system, offering seven areas of concentration and nine business minors. Graduate Programs Explore the programs We offer STEM-designated programs: MBA, Professional MBA, Master of Finance, Master of Professional Accountancy, Master of Science in Business Analytics, and a Ph.D. program. Latest News May 26, 2022 Professor Earns High Marks in the Classroom Professor Kyle Ingram was recently honored with the 2022 Innovative Teaching Award from UC Riverside and the Shulman Endowed Excellence in Teaching Award from the UCR School of Business. “Professor Ingram is one of the best, if not the best... Read More » May 20, 2022 California Workforce Expands In Latest Numbers 41,400 Jobs Added California’s labor market continued to expand at a steady pace in April, with total nonfarm employment in the state growing by 41,400 positions over the month, according to an analysis by the UCR School of Business Center... Read More » May 19, 2022 Sharing a Love of Learning With Real-world Lessons When Assistant Professor of Management Marlo Raveendran is not researching organization design and the division of labor, or engaging her students in discussing real-life examples of these topics, you might find her in another realm: playing World of Warcraft. The... Read More » April 28, 2022 UCR Student Teams Take Home Victories in Business Competitions Recently, the UCR School of Business fielded successful teams in case competitions displaying both business acumen and competitive determination: At the inaugural UC Davis Graduate School of Management Case Study Competition on April 1 and 2, one of the two... Read More » View all news School Highlights World Class Faculty Our faculty are experts, researchers, award-winners, and practitioners from around the globe. World Class Faculty Career Development Center We offer resources to both our graduate students as well as to employers who seek talent for internships and full-time positions. AGSM Student Career Services Employer recruiting resources Executive Fellows The Executive Fellows program connects distinguished business leaders with faculty and students at the UCR School of Business. Fellows are selected for their executive leadership, professional experience and business expertise. Executive Fellows First-Rate Economic Forecasts The UCR School of Business Center for Economic Forecasting and Development is the first world-class university forecasting center in the Inland Empire serving one of the most dynamic regions in the United States. Economic Forecasting and Development Previous Next School of Business Events Undergraduate Events Graduate Events Signature Events Featured News & Events UCR School of Business Commencement 2022 Business Master's and Bachelor's commencement will take place on Friday, June 10, 6:00 pm on UCR's Pierce Lawn. View details and FAQ Professor Earns High Marks in the Classroom Professor Kyle Ingram’s engaged instruction garners awards from both the university and the School of Business Read the article California Workforce Expands In Latest Numbers But Labor Supply Will Continue Constraining Job Growth: March Job Gains Revised Upwards Read the article Executive Fellows Continue with a Renewed Sense of Purpose Now able to meet in person, the School of Business Executive Fellows are ready to mentor students on campus Read the article UCR Student Teams Take Home Victories in Business Competitions At both the UC Davis competition and the intensive worldwide ICBSC contest, Highlanders showcased their expertise Read the article Previous Next Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Campus Return School of Business Anderson Hall 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-6329 Email: business@ucr.edu Find Us Graduate Business Programs 2316 Olmsted Hall Tel: (951) 827-6200 Email: ucr_agsm@ucr.edu Undergraduate Business Program 2340 Olmsted Hall Tel: (951) 827-4551 Email: undergradbusiness@ucr.edu Quick Links Related Links Graduate Business Programs (AGSM) Center for Economic Forecasting and Development Undergraduate Business Program Faculty Giving UCR Home Contact Us Follow Us: Follow AGSM: Follow Undergraduate: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel