Skip to main content College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Sociology and Anthropology Menu Close About Us Contact Us Diversity Giving Undergraduate Anthropology Criminology Sociology Academic Advising Add or Change a Major Career Paths Honors Programs Graduate M.A. in Anthropology Ph.D. in Sociology For Current Students: Anthropology For Current Students: Sociology Student Information and Forms People Research Faculty and Staff Resources Department Guidelines Manual Forms, Policies and Procedures Sociology Teaching Resources College of Humanities and Social Sciences Intranet News Events About Us About Us Contact Us Diversity Giving Undergraduate Undergraduate Anthropology Criminology Sociology Academic Advising Add or Change a Major Career Paths Honors Programs Graduate Graduate M.A. in Anthropology Ph.D. in Sociology For Current Students: Anthropology For Current Students: Sociology Student Information and Forms People People Research Research Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Department Guidelines Manual Forms, Policies and Procedures Sociology Teaching Resources College of Humanities and Social Sciences Intranet News News Events Exploring Society and Culture At the heart of our disciplines lies a determination to understand complex social issues – both past and present – so that we may inform the future. About us Undergraduate Programs Learn more about bachelor’s degrees in anthropology, criminology and sociology. Graduate Programs Explore our M.A. in Anthropology and Ph.D. in Sociology programs. News More stories Weaving a Bright Future Private support enabled Lara Rabinowitz ’22 to study on campus and abroad during her time at NC State, all while combining seemingly different majors in seamless ways. An Interview with Stephanie Jares, winner of NC State’s New Academic Advisor Award Get to know Stephanie Jares, the 2022 winner of NC State’s New Academic Advisor Award. Celebrating Our Graduating Student Ambassadors We want to thank our three graduating student ambassadors, who have gone above and beyond for the department, NC State and our students. The department has been nothing short of welcoming and helpful in my journey here at NC State. Justice Cass Criminology ’22 Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance? We look forward to hearing from you. Reach out Ready to Apply? Undergraduate Admissions Start your application with the NC State admissions office. Apply Now Graduate Admissions Start your application with the NC State Graduate School. Apply Now Department of Sociology and Anthropology Home 10 Current Drive, Suite 334 Campus Box 8107 Raleigh, NC 27695-8107 919-515-3180 Sociology and Anthropology Home Contact Us News Events Faculty and Staff Resources Room Reservations Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.