Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share Past Honors Theses 2020 - Present 2020 - Gustavo De Almedia Silva: "Domestic Labor, Legislation, and Consolidation of Labor Safeguards in Brazil" (Kimberly Rogers) 2020 - Samantha Hussey: "A System for All? An Examination of Social Hierarchy, Power and Identity Within Dartmouth's Greek Life" (Janice McCabe) 2020 - Laura Lewin: "Identity Transformation Within An All-Female Rural Recovery Model" (Kimberly Rogers) 2020 - Khymaya Perkins: "Wading the Waters of Reproductive Tyranny: Reconceptualizing Black Women's Contemporary Birth Control Decisions through the Lens of Reproductive Justice" (Deborah King) 2020 - Kathryn Wood: "Won't You Be My Neighbor? An Examination of Neighborly Bonds and Wellbeing in Boston, MA" (Emily Walton) 2010 - 2019 2019- Sarah Adelman: "Poor, Stressed, and Pregnant: Fundamental Cause and Birth Outcomes" (Emily Walton) 2019 – Mark Griffith: "Work and Wages for Recent Caribbean-American Migrants" (Jason Houle) 2017 - Oscar R. Cornejo Casares: "Freedom University and the Tyranny of Home: The Politics of Belonging in the Era of Modern Segregation" (Marc Dixon) 2017 - Emma Hartswick: "'Because It Changes You': Why Young Adults Use Alcohol and How They Perceive Misuse Prevention Messages" (Emily Walton) 2017 - Sera Sara Kwon: "Radical Solidarity vs. Racial Visibility: The Paradox of Asian ~ Black Coalition Dynamics" (Marc Dixon and Deborah King) 2017 - Jennifer Jiwon Lee: "Who Speaks and Who Listens: An Examination of Gender Differences in Dartmouth Classrooms" (Janice McCabe) 2017 - Estéfani Marin: "Creating Latinx Ethnic Identity: Forging Belonging and Community at Dartmouth College" (Janice McCabe) 2016 - Nana Adjeiwaa-Manu: "Grieving for the Ungrievable: Support Systems among Bereaved Ghanaians in the United States" (Marc Dixon) 2016 - Samantha Cheng: "Examining Gender Through Mentor Perspectives in Collegiate and Entrepreneurial Environments" (Janice McCabe) 2016 - Ledah Geller: "The Ivy League Hookup Culture: An Examination of the Female Undergraduate Perspective" (Kathryn Lively) 2016 - Laura McCulloch: "A Sociological Examination of the United States Opioid Epidemic" (Jason Houle) 2015 - Emmanuel Blankson: "Black, African American, or None of the Above: The Racial and Ethnic Identity Constructions of 1.5 and 2nd Generation Black Immigrants at Dartmouth College" 2015 - Taylor Enoch-Stevens: "What Sister/Brother Am I Keeping? Black Student Interaction and Community Building at Dartmouth College" 2015 - Meghan Hassett: "Race, Class, and Perceptions of Rape: A Study of How Dartmouth College Women Respond to Situations of Rape with Respect to Intersectionality" 2015 - Crandalyn Jackson: "Protect the Vote: A Comparative Study of Voter Identification Laws and Black Voter Turnout" 2015 - Morgan Matthews: "A State House Divided: Work-Family Conflict and Gender in a Citizen Legislature" 2014 - Samantha Oh: "Performing Identity: Urban Fashion in a Post-Apartheid South Africa" 2014 - Chauna Pervis: "Black Americans, Trust and Government Institutions" 2013 - Danielle Jellerette: "Resumes, Cover Letters and Facebook Profiles: A Study on the Use of Facebook in the Corporate Hiring Process" 2013 - Emi-Lou Weed: "Hookups, Romantic Relationships, and Companionate Love at Dartmouth" 2013 - Duncan Hall: "Social Norms and Organizational Policy: Using a Three-Dimensional Stakeholder Analysis to Understand Fraternity Norms about Sexual Assault" 2012 - Orli Kleiner: "Selling the Game: The Economic Sociology of Advertising in Baseball" 2012 - Georgino Hyppolite: "More Black Ivy Leaguers, But There's a 'Kind'? Oppositional Culture Theory and Group Attachment of High-Achieving Black Students" 2011 - Stephany Acosta: "Deciphering Dominican Dreams: Social Mobility Among Dominican Immigrant Professionals" 2011 - Aryana S. Jacobs: "Race and Gender in Newspaper Coverage of Sexually Transmitted Diseases" 2011 - Jaclyn K. Wypler: "The Future's in the Dirt: Local Food, Community and Embeddedness in Hardwick, Vermont" 2010 - Nichole R. Davis: "A Model for Public Schools: An Analysis of Long Term Academic Enrichment Programs and How They Shape Black Students to Succeed in College" 2010 - Ian W. Ferrell: "The Business of America is Business: Corporate America's Reassertion of Political and Economic Power and the Divergent Responses of American Labor Unions" 2010 - Jessica C. Guthrie: "How Do Black and White Biracial College Students Identify? Exploring the Influencing Factors in the Development and Changes in Racial Self-identification" 2010 - Mary C. "Lina" Stepick - "Threat or Opportunity? Immigrant Workers and Building Trades Unions, the Case of Portland, Oregon" 2000-2009 2009 - Rembert M. Browne, II: "Upper-Class Black Identity and Social Distancing" 2009 - Maria L. Castilla: "Socioeconomic Status and Hispanic Identification in Part-Hispanic, Multiracial Adolescents: A Microsociological Approach" 2009 - Lisel A. Murdock: "Human Capabilities: Effects of Neighborhood Trust and Food Insecurity on Emotions" 2009 - Tessa M. Winter: "The Post-Election Violence and Social Networks of University Students in Nairobi, Kenya" 2008 - Katherine L. Davis: "A Matter of Taste: The State of Class in Burlington, Vermont, Through the City Market" 2008 - Sara E. del Nido: "From Interests to Identities: Mapuche Social Movement Organizations and Indigenous Autonomy in Chile" 2008 - Sarah C. Herringer: "Organics in the Mainstream: The Creation of an Industry or Social Movement Success?" 2007 - Eric Cruz: "Disparities in Adolescent Health - The Case of Adolescent Diabetes" 2007 - Ashley Satterfield: "Big Pimpin: Black Masculinity and the Emergence of the Pimp in Popular Culture" 2006 - Lindsay Longe: "An Examination of the Connection Between Charter School Mission Statements, Student Enrollments, and Educational Outcomes" 2006 - Tiffany Davis: "Drop Me off in Harlem: An Analysis of the Changing Commercial Market in Gentrified Harlem" 2006 - Kristina Emeghebo: "The Socialization of Individuals in Interracial Relationships" 2006 - Mary Haile: "Identity Formation among Transracially Adopted Ethiopian Children" 2006 - Scott Abramson: "Globalization and Christian Democracy in Italy and Germany" 2006 - Rebecca Wehrly: "Constructing the Problem of Lead Poisoning: Competing Views in Manchester, N.H." 2005 - Stella Treas: "The Relation of Social Networks and Transaction Costs to Executives' Employment Decisions" 2005 - Victoria Lee: "At the Vanguard of Social Reform: The 1998 Student Movement in the Democratization of Indonesia" 2004 - Jennifer D. Carlson: "Condoned or Condemned? The normalization of the death penalty in Huntsville, Texas" 2004 - Alison C. Kelley: "A Young Heart with an Old Soul": How Incarcerated Juveniles Construct Age-Identity through Writing about Personal Relationships" 2004 - Johanna R. Thomas: "Completing the Picture: Increasing the understanding of Black female and Latina juvenile violence" 2004 - Arjun S. Ponnambalam: "Divergent Paths of Intrastate Conflicts: Resolution and Protraction in El Salvador and Colombia" 2004 - Njoki E. Gatimu: "Two Nations, One Self: Identity Formation among Second-Generation Nigerian Adolescents in the New York City Area." 2003 - Jennai Williams: "Plantation Misappropriation: Heritage Tourism and Historical Representations of Six St. Francisville Plantations" 2003 - Lindsey G. Payson: "Ethno-tourism on Isla del Sol, Bolivia" 2003 - Jillian L. Powers: "Stigma Management of a Deviant Occupation: A study of rural stripping" 2003 - Claribel Vargas: "The Road to Medical School: An Exploration of the Undergraduate Experience of Underrepresented Minorities" 2003 - Olufunmilola A. Adedokun: "American Psycho: The Social Construction of Mental Health Disorders in American News Media" 2003 - Ross Landau: 'The Good of the Game' 2003 - Amber Laws: "Fight the Power: An Analysis of Hip-Hop Culture and the Social Mobilization of African-American Youth" 2003 - Jennifer Jaggi: "Managed Care and the Medical Profession: A study of the attitudes of Medical Students and Residents" 2003 - Paola Peacock-Villada: "Bilingual Education in the United States: A study of its creation and demise in Massachusetts" 2003 - Amanda Benjamin-Smith: "The Cream of the Crop: The Black Model Minority, Cultivating Class Through Educational Attainment" 2002 - Christopher Allen: "In Harms Way: J.S. Mill and State Intervention in Liberty" 2002 - Thea Ellis: "Black Bourgeoisie Revisited: A Contemporary Analysis of the Black Middle Class and the Black Press in he United States" 2002 - Benjamin Gebre-Medhin: "The Development of Democracy in Eritrea: Nation, Revolution & Democratization" 2002 - David A. Trouille: "The White Faces of Dartmouth College: A Study of Racial Identity among White Males" 2002 - Maren Winnick: "Evaluating Patient Literacy: A Three Part Study of Health Literacy in the Health Care Environment" 2001 - Randy P. Choiniere: "Crying over Spilt Milk?: Assessing the Plight of Small Dairy Farmers in the Northeast" 2001 - Brianne Rideout: "Policing Racialized and Ethnic Space: Police Misconduct in an Urban Environment 2001 - Christine M. Percheski: "Changing Career Aspirations: Trends among Women and Men of an Ivy League College from 1972-1999." 2001 - Matthew T. Shaffer: "'You Know How We Roll:'" An Exploration of the Cultural Capital and Adolescent Networking Patterns Among African-American, Latino, and Caucasian Seniors at Evanston Township High School in Evanston, Illinois" 2001 - Mona Jean-Baptiste: "Unveiling the Black Body: Meaning and Representations of the Black Woman's Body 1900-1930" 2001 - Leah R. Threatte: "Rainbows on the Green: An Analysis of Gender and Achievement in the African American Community at Dartmouth" 2000 - Sarah M. Blanton: "Black-White Biracial Identity Construction: The Structural, Social, and Personal Forces Affecting the Development of Racialized Sense of Self" 1990 - 1999 1999 - Karen Yen: "Chinese-American Organization and Mobilization" 1998 - Doug Heyman: "The Contemporary Black American Attitude toward Self-Segregation as a Reflection, Reaction and Resolution to the Social and Legislative Reality of the American Dream." 1998 - Fuchsia Grey: "Controlling Their Bodie's Fate: An Exploratory Analysis of the Metamorphosis and Continuance of Female Circumcision in Egypt, Sudan and Kenya." 1998 - Shaun Peet: "Behold a Pale Horse: The United States and the Impoverishment of the Teton Sioux of Pine Ridge." 1998 - Erica Ryu: "The Aftermath: Collective Action and Solidarity in the Korean American Community after the LA Riots." 1997 - Chen Yang: "Taiwan's Economic Development Past, Present, and Future: A case study and a test of development theories." 1996 - Gerald E. Martin: "Waging a Christian War: The Flexibility of War Doctrine Within the Christian Church" 1996 - Chandra E. Stanley: "Deconstructing the Myth of the Miracle: Did Chile's Privatization of Social Services Go Too Far? " 1996 - Peter B. Evans: "A Better Chance: Dartmouth's Contribution to the Civil Rights Movement" 1995 - Kimberly Barry: "Salvaging Tomorrow: Generation X and Recycling Behavior" 1995 - Juliet Bouyea: "Black...Not Beautiful: The Commodification of Beauty and the African-American Woman" 1995 - Nadia Bowers: "Volunteerism as a Means for Social Control on the Axes of Class and Gender" 1995 - Gregory Heyman: "Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X: Consistency with American Political and Social Foundation" 1995 - Kristi Kimball: "American Economic Decline and the Rise of Corporate Conservatism" 1995 - Jennifer Sack: "The Ties That Once Bound: The Unraveling of the Black-Jewish Coalition in the United States" 1995 - Jessica Segal: "The Social and Structural Forces That De-Stabilized Boston's Jewish Community" 1995 - Moriah Shilton: "Irish Women: An Examination of the Interplay Between the Irish Constitution of 1937, the Irish Roman Catholic Church, and the Socio-Economic Conditions of the Time" 1994 - Alicia L. Marti: "Anomie and Eating Disorders" 1993 - Rebecca H. Meyercor: "Gender Equity in Teacher-Student Interactions, and Ethneographic Study" 1992 Joy L.K. Dwyer: "Socialized to Abuse: When Violence in the Workplace Becomes Violence in the Home" 1991 - Richard A. Aube, Jr.: "The National Rifle Association: A Preparation for Battle" 1991 - Tara D. Blake: "The Holocaust in Context: Civilization at its Pinnacle and Abyss...." 1991 - Trecia M. Canty: "The Quest for Social Equality: African-Americans in the Post-Civil Rights Period" 1991 - Jennifer S. Clark: "Family Violence: Prevention, Intervention and Public Policy" 1991 - Holly-Anne Coward: "Socio-linguistic Determinants of Social Class in Modern Britain" 1991 - Debra C. VanWinkle: "Health Claims in Advertisements" 1990 - Carol Ling: "To Be a Woman and a Physician: A Study of the Social and Structural Factors Influencing Women Physicians' Specialty and Subspecialty Choices" 1990 - Rebecca L. Solberg: "Agricultural Marketing Relationships in a Political- Economic Context" Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback