Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Give Give Support the Steve Hicks School The Steve Hicks School is among the top-ten in the nation (U.S. News & World Report) and celebrates an enduring legacy of bright students, talented faculty, dedicated staff and accomplished alumni. We are thankful for the generous support of our friends and alumni who invest in the school’s mission and value the future of the social work profession. Donate Now Steve Hicks Matching Challenge Learn more about Steve Hicks’ $5 million matching challenge to create endowed scholarships for social work students. Learn More How to Give Make a gift and play and active role in improving the experiences for those in the Steve Hicks School community. Your support helps us engage the best and brightest students, empower our award-winning researchers and make a positive impact in Austin and beyond. Learn More Join the Utopia Society The Utopia Society recognizes annual contributors to the Steve Hicks School of Social Work and offers them opportunities to stay engaged and connected. Annual gifts, whether to an established endowment, one of our research institutes or simply the area of greatest need, make a significant impact. See membership levels and benefits below. Questions? Contact Carrie Stephens. Friend Advocate Visionary Ambassador Champion Friend Annual contribution: $100 – 249 Benefits: Listed in the printed version of The Utopian, the Steve Hicks School of Social Work magazine Subscription to quarterly e-newsletter Posted on annual donor list in the Steve Hicks School of Social Work building Advocate Annual contribution: $250 – 499 Benefits: Friend benefits plus: 2 tickets to annual tailgate 1 free CEU webinar Visionary Annual contribution: $500 – 999 Benefits: Advocate benefits plus: 2 drink tickets at annual alumni reception 1 free half-day CEU workshop (up to $55 value) Validated parking for lectures (based on availability) Ambassador Annual contribution: $1,000 – 4,999 Benefits: Visionary benefits plus: 2 tickets to annual donor celebration event Champion Annual contribution: $5,000 Benefits: Ambassador benefits plus: Invitation to private dinner with the dean Cassie Bernhardt Director of Development, Steve Hicks School of Social Work Meet Our Director Cassie Bernhardt joined the development team at the Steve Hicks School of Social Work in 2019. See Full Bio Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved