Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Student Resources » Resources for BSW Students Resources for BSW Students Resources for BSW Students We are here to support you. Please contact the BSW Program Team with any questions. Email the BSW Program Team Helpful Links BSW Program Homepage Field Education Forms and Guides Academic Advising All you need to know about getting ready for registration, scheduling advising appointments, applying for graduation and more. Learn More Interactive Degree Audit Get a report of your progress towards your BSW degree. Learn More SWEEP SWEEP (Social Work Education Enhancement Program) supports undergraduate students along their paths to becoming professional social workers through inclusive community building, mentorship, collaboration and information sharing. Learn More Graduation Information about how to apply for graduation, tuition rebates and commencement cremonies. Learn More Policies Access the BSW Student Handbook and learn about procedures regarding registration, drops, withdrawals, probation and more. Learn More Professional Licensure Disclosures The University of Texas at Austin makes every effort to ensure state licensure or certification information is current; however, state requirements may change. If you are planning to pursue professional licensure or certification in a state other than Texas, it is strongly recommended that you contact the appropriate licensing entity in that state. Learn More More to Explore Service Learning Service Learning Starting in the very first semester, BSW students engage in service learning in an agency in the community. Learn More Honors Program Honors Program The BSW Honors program challenges students to see the world as presenting research questions that can be answered through the application of social work theories and values. Learn More Go Global Go Global If you want to change the world, you need to experience it. Take your social work education beyond the Forty Acres and gain an international perspective that will set you apart in your career. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved