Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Faculty & Staff Resources » Brand Resources Brand Resources The image of the Steve Hicks School of Social Work should be presented in a consistent and professional manner that follows university guidelines. These resources are intended to help you use the school’s brand elements correctly and consistently in your presentations, reports, and any other documents. Nomenclature The Steve Hicks School of Social Work name must be in all legal documents as well as publications, including but not limited to reports, presentations, websites, brochures, mailers, flyers, and posters. The recommended designation for the our school is Steve Hicks School of Social Work. When used in a document, the complete name “Steve Hicks School of Social Work” should be used upon first mention. Thereafter “Steve Hicks School” or “school” may be used. Avoid acronyms such as SHSSW. Acknowledgement in publications: please make sure to mention the Steve Hicks School of Social Work along with The University of Texas at Austin and any specific offices, centers, or institutes. For example: “This study was conducted by the XYZ Institute at The University of Texas at Austin Steve Hicks School of Social Work with support from the ABC foundation…” Logos The Steve Hicks School’s wordmark or “logo” should serve as the official school identification for all print and electronic communications. For instance, the logo should be included in institutes’ websites, posters and presentations, reports, brochures and flyers, invitations to school-sponsored events. The logo should not be altered in any way. To access The University of Texas at Austin’s brand assets, go here. Power Point slides Download Steve Hicks School branded PowerPoint templates. Branded Zoom backgrounds Find Zoom backgrounds with Steve Hicks School and UT Austin branding in the school’s Flickr account. Electronic letterhead Contact Carrie Stephens at cstephens@mail.utexas.edu for the electronic version of the Steve Hicks School letterhead. Paper versions of the letterhead can be found in the Dean’s Office. UT Austin color palette Use of color must be consistent across the university. See primary and secondary palette. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved