Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Why the Steve Hicks School Why the Steve Hicks School We are ranked among the best ten schools of social work in the nation. We offer a caring, small-sized community within a top-tier research university located in the vibrant city of Austin. Ranking U.S. News and World Report has consistently ranked our Master of Science in Social Work program among the top ten in the nation since 2003. The Best Schools ranked our Bachelor of Social Work program number three in the nation in 2020. Learn More Excellence The Steve Hicks School faculty, staff and students excel in their respective fields. Read about some of the latest accomplishments of members of our community. Learn More People Faculty members at the Steve Hicks School of Social Work bring countless years of professional experience to the classroom and their expertise as leaders in fields such as mental health interventions, addictions, interpersonal violence and child welfare. Meet the Faculty Setting We’re proud to call the bustling city of Austin, Texas, our home. Get inspired by its vibrant music and arts scene, entrepreneurial spirit and surrounding natural beauty. Discover Austin Commitment to Equity and Inclusion The Office of the Associate Dean for Equity and Inclusion fosters a diverse and inclusive school environment and community founded on mutual respect, an appreciation of differences, and the dismantling of systems of privilege and oppression. Learn More Who We Are Since 1950, we have been educating outstanding professional social workers to serve Texas and the nation. Our Story Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved