Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Alumni Alumni Alumni Steve Hicks School alumni work across the country and the world to solve significant social problems and contribute to the economic well being of their communities. They strengthen the Steve Hicks School with their contributions as field instructors, lecturers and presenters for our continuing education programs. Update your contact information Helpful Links News Join SWAN The Social Work Alumni Network (SWAN) offers opportunities to fulfill continuing education requirements, network with social workers in your practice and/or geographic area, and stay connected to the Steve Hicks School through special events. Learn More Contact the DiNitto Career Center Contact the DiNitto Career Center for access to its exclusive online jobs bulletin, career advising, employment resources, licensure information and more. Learn More Find continuing education opportunities Contact the Office of Professional Development for online and in-person continuing education credits. Learn More Become a field instructor Contact the Office of Field Education to become a field instructor and find meaningful opportunities to mentor social work students while serving your clients. Learn More Share your news New job? Marriage? Children? Recent award or professional recognition? Please share your news with us for the Class Notes of The Utopian. Learn More Support the Steve Hicks School We are thankful for the generous support of our friends and alumni who invest in the school’s mission and value the future of the social work profession. Learn More Read The Utopian The Utopian is the print and digital bi-annual magazine of the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Alumni receive a printed copy of The Utopian via mail free of charge. Browse The Utopian Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved