Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » About Us About Us Explore Mission and Values We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Learn More Equity and Inclusion Learn about our initiatives to foster a diverse and inclusive environment. Learn More Programs Explore undergraduate, graduate and post-doctoral programs in social work . Learn More Leadership Meet the experts leading the Steve Hicks School. Learn More People Find faculty and staff in our directory. Go The Utopian Access The Utopian, our biannual online and in a print magazine. Our readers are scholars, alumni and friends who share a commitment to connection, advocacy, and change. Go Accreditation Accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) since 1950, the Steve Hicks School of Social Work is a renowned leader in the field. View the latest assessment of student learning outcomes for the BSW program and MSSW program. Why Choose the Steve Hicks School Ranked among the best ten schools of social work in the nation and located in the vibrant city of Austin, we offer a caring, small-sized community in a top-tier research university. Learn more We want you to dream, and to dream big, about what the world should be and what you can do about it. And you won’t be alone. At the Steve Hicks School you will find a community of people deeply committed to preparing professionals to tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Dean Luis H. Zayas Our Story Since 1950, we have been educating outstanding professional social workers to serve Texas and the nation. Learn more Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved