Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > News Search for: News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population Columbia University’s School of Social Work, one of the world’s leading research universities, and Committee of 100, a non-profit membership… June 1 @ 5:15 pm Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation The Columbia School of Social Work is excited to announce that Wanda Holland Greene will be the keynote speaker at… May 3 @ 1:29 am Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come “I’m half a century.” Kathy laughs. Even through a staticky computer screen, Yesenia Marsala, who goes by Kathy, radiates pride… April 29 @ 8:03 pm Meet 15 ‘Lions of Social Justice’ From the Class of 2022 For many 2022 graduates their time at Columbia has been marked by a pandemic that has forced the world to… April 28 @ 8:32 pm ICYMI: Dr. Maria Y. Rodriguez on How Historic Poverty Shaped Today’s Child Welfare Policies (Video) “[W]hen we think of some of the important child welfare policies of today, [we are seeing] child welfare as it… March 30 @ 7:56 pm School of Social Work Hosts Three Displaced Scholars Scholarship recipients will use their social work training to improve mental health or social and political conditions in their home… March 14 @ 12:26 pm ICYMI: Dr. Victoria Frye on Decreasing HIV Stigma and Homophobia (Video) “[We] can tell you how much tree canopy there is. . . how much litter there is. But no one… March 9 @ 3:51 pm ICYMI: Dr. Tanya L. Sharpe on Black Survivors of Homicide Victims (Video) “In the beginning of my work, I began to simply ask the questions of Black survivors of homicide victims…. ‘What… February 16 @ 9:53 pm Dean’s Lecture: Participatory Research Approaches in the Context of Structural Racism Dr. Linda Sprague Martinez demonstrated how involving community groups as equal partners in research projects can create more equitable outcomes…. January 25 @ 5:55 pm 3 Questions for … Gaëlle Bottex Gaëlle Bottex has been a key staff member of the Center for Prolonged Grief since 2017. She began as a… January 11 @ 6:54 pm 1 2 3 … 82 Upcoming Events See more June 2022 M T W T F S S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 « May Jul » SPECIAL REPORT: Social Work in Times of Crisis This Special Report highlights responses by social work researchers to a tumultuous year shaped by the COVID-19 pandemic and protests against racial injustice. SPECIAL REPORT: CSSW and Racial Justice This Special Report highlights work undertaken by our faculty, students, and staff in the area of racial justice. SPECIAL REPORT: CSSW and U.S. Politics & Government This Special Report highlights our faculty and alumni who have played a range of roles in U.S. politics and government. Tweets by ColumbiaSSW Follow on Instagram About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT