Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > News > News > School of Social Work Hosts Three Displaced Scholars Search for: School of Social Work Hosts Three Displaced Scholars March 14 @ 12:26 pm By Communications Office Scholarship recipients will use their social work training to improve mental health or social and political conditions in their home countries. Content warning: This article contains references to violent events that may be upsetting or triggering. This academic year, the School of Social Work welcomed three MSW candidates supported by the Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students. They are among the 15 students in the second cohort of this program, which offers full scholarships to displaced students from anywhere in the world. Here, two of the scholars tell us more about their home countries, their career goals, and why they chose to pursue a degree in social work. (Comments are edited and condensed.) Another student is still considering his career at Columbia. Lavenes LAVENES (LAST NAME WITHHELD), LIBERIA Bachelor’s in Biology from the T.J.R. Faulkner College of Science and Technology, University of Liberia Liberia, a small country situated on the west coast of Africa, was founded by formerly enslaved people from the United States of America, and its capital, Monrovia, was named in honor of James Monroe, America’s fifth president. My country is the oldest on the continent of Africa and provided sanctuary to many African revolutionaries as they engaged in the struggle to liberate their people from colonialism and apartheid. It is now home to a little over 4.8 million people and fifteen different ethnic groups. I want to identify sustainable ways to support individuals who have been stigmatized and marginalized for their struggles with substance use disorders and mental health. I also have an innate desire to see others succeed in fulfilling their potential. This drives my unrelenting quest for equity in resource allocation to every spectrum of society, irrespective of social status. In the short term, I intend to gain understanding of how the private and public sectors deal with the complexities of social work issues and to secure employment with the WHO or UN as a research fellow focusing on mental health and substance use in West Africa. My long-term goal is to establish and manage a rehabilitation center in my home country for individuals struggling with mental health and substance use disorders. This may seem herculean, but it will be a fulfilling way of giving back to the society I cherish. Bwema Bienfait Matata BWEMA BIENFAIT MATATA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Bachelor’s in Social Work and Social Administration, Bugema University, Uganda I chose social work because it is in my blood. My father was always teaching us how to give to people in need. When I was 10, he donated our garden to Rwandan refugees who fled because of the 1994 genocide. In 2012, rebels attacked our village. They murdered my father and two of my younger brothers and forced the survivors to run. I lost the love of both parents that any other youth has. I became a separated child, living with different people of a different background. Today, the security situation in eastern DRC remains unstable. Intercommunal violence affects the political, security, and humanitarian situation. There are continued reports of several towns in eastern DRC being attacked by or falling under the temporary control of armed groups. That is why it’s hard as a displaced person to go back now. But I believe that displaced people have the potential to act as agents of change. They contribute significantly to sustainable development globally, and in Africa. In the Democratic Republic of Congo they need a leader who is a social worker, who knows what Congolese need and why they are displaced worldwide. That’s why I’m here. After my masters I will do a PhD in social work, and I will be able to return, run in the presidential election of 2034, and save our country by solving the intercommunal problem and bringing people together. That is my role and my responsibility. Upcoming Events See more The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture: Translating Behavioral HIV Interventions from the US to Kazakhstan June 9, 2022 Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy June 10, 2022 Practice-Focused Training in Prolonged Grief Disorder Therapy June 17, 2022 Tweets by ColumbiaSSW Follow on Instagram Other News See more Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Meet 15 ‘Lions of Social Justice’ From the Class of 2022 April 28, 2022 Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Δ About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT