Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure While You Are There Courses, Credits, and Grades Living in Copenhagen Applying your financial aid to exchange programs Share Costs and Financial Aid Tuition, Fees, Housing, and Other Costs SStudents pay Dartmouth tuition to Dartmouth for the term. Housing costs are paid to the University of Copenhagen. Housing costs for Dartmouth students in Copenhagen are variable and may exceed what they would be at Dartmouth. Check the website below for current estimates of housing and living costs. Students pay for their own food and do their own food shopping and cooking so, depending on your culinary skills and tastes, costs for food will vary. It is important to remember that exchange rates fluctuate. This means that the cost in U.S. dollars for housing, food, public transportation and other tings may vary. Copenhagen is an expensive place to live even though the dollar is strong vis-à-vis the Danish krone right now. Your expenses will probably be higher than they would be at Dartmouth for a term. As of June 2019, the University of Copenhagen estimates that living expenses will be approximately as follows (current exchange rate is $1.00 = 6.6 DKK). Some students have reported that these estimates are low; it depends on your lifestyle: Housing/month $1,060-1,515 (7,000-10,000 DKK) Board/Month $453-605 (3,000-4,000 DKK) Local transportation/Month (if you travel daily) $57-151 (380-1,000 DKK) Pocket money/Month $302 (2,000 DKK) Books/Supplies/Semester $226-302 (1,500-2,000 DKK) Buying a used bicycle $121-226 (800-1,500 DKK) For further information see https://studies.ku.dk/welcome/living-in-copenhagen/money-and-banking/. Costs estimated 06/2019 Financial Aid All those presently receiving Dartmouth financial aid are also eligible for this aid in the Copenhagen exchange program. Housing All Dartmouth students will be provided by the University of Copenhagen Housing Foundation (UCPH) with housing in flats, family homes, student apartments, or converted dorms. Because housing in Copenhagen is in short supply, it is likely that students will be notified about the specifics of their housing situation only 2-4 weeks before their departure to Denmark. Students should apply to the UCPH for housing as soon as possible after being accepted into the program. The UCPH has only a very few dormitories and no dining halls. As noted above, students should not expect the same level of amenities that Dartmouth offers its students in the dorms (e.g., high-speed internet access, free long distance telephone, etc.). Nor should students assume that they will necessarily be living with other Dartmouth students. Rental Agreements Students will very likely be required to pay for housing for a longer period of time than they will actually be in Copenhagen. The typical rental agreement runs from mid-July through the end of January. Students can use the University of Copenhagen Housing Foundation to offer their rooms to other students for the end of the rental period (not the beginning) but Copenhagen cannot guarantee that another student will accept the offer. For their own financial reasons the Housing Foundation must work with fixed rental periods that correspond with the University of Copenhagen’s semester system, which unfortunately does not coincide with Dartmouth’s quarter system. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback