Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Sociology Department myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Us Academics Select to follow link Undergraduate Program Select to follow link B.A.; BGS in Sociology Select to follow link Course Requirements Sociology Minor Undergrad Courses Graduate Program Select to follow link Awards & Publications Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Placement Funding & Scholarships Honors Internships Advising Admission Select to follow link Graduate Admission Undergraduate Admission Directory Select to follow link Department Administration Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Lecturers Why Sociology at KU? Select to follow link Alumni Stories Sociology in Action Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Sociology Department Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Department of Sociology We're the oldest sociology department in the United States - we study social life, social change and the social causes and consequences of human behavior. Undergraduate Program There are different paths for students interested in Sociology. Discover which is right for you and explore our majors and minors. Get Started Graduate Program Our graduate program allows you to learn alongside nationally recognized scholars and explore topics through faculty-student collaboration. Explore our program Why Sociology? It opens plenty of career opportunities at the local, state, and federal levels It has relevance across a variety of fields You'll learn how to understand the world around you It prepares you for the pursuit of professional and graduate degrees It's a fascinating and multifaceted discipline Why Sociology at KU? Meet Our Department Learn about our faculty, graduate students, and administrative staff. Faculty Faculty Graduate Students Graduate Students Administrative Staff Administrative Staff Contact Us Find our address, phone number, email address, and directions Contact Sociology Fraser Hall, Room 716 1415 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 socdept@ku.edu 785-864-4111 facebook instagram Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Directory Careers Give to KU Sociology Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.