Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content Center for Social Innovation at UC Riverside Search UC Riverside Center for Social Innovation Center for Social Innovation Home News About People Opportunities Research State of the Inland Empire Series State of Innovation in the Inland Empire State of Education Equity in the Inland Empire State of Nonprofits in the Inland Empire State of Civic Engagement in the Inland Empire State of Women in the Inland Empire State of Work in the Inland Empire State of Immigrants in the Inland Empire Community Profiles Inland Empire Research Our Salton Sea Report IE COVID Data and Research IE COVID Monitor Map IE Black Education Agenda Inland Empire Initiative Map 2021 Inland Empire Policy Summit Report Good Jobs in the Inland Empire Report California Research Equity in Higher Education-The State/Regional Approach Census 2020 California Voter's Choice Act The Philanthropic Case for Inland California Community & Ethnic Media Report Reaching Low Propensity Voters Our Salton Sea: Inclusive Economic Development National Research What's Next on Census Engagement: Learning from the Minnesota Model Compendium on Civic Engagement and Population Health The Health Needs of Undocumented Older Adults Toolkit for Housing & Community Engagement Faculty Research Frameworks for Action Initiatives Major Initiatives Civic Engagement and Population Health Initiative Programs Surveys Events CSI Blog Donate Contact Community Engagement and Policy Innovation LEARN MORE Research The center aims to provide a credible research voice that shifts away from a "problem" narrative to an "opportunity" narrative for marginalized communities. LEARN MORE Major Initiatives The Center for Social Innovation's major initiatives are aimed to more fully realize the region's potential in terms of its civic activities, philanthropic investments, and the growing nonprofit sector. LEARN MORE Events Please view our events page to learn more about events that we will be holding. Also, please view this page to learn more about events that we've held in the past. LEARN MORE In the News Please click the link below to view the news articles that we've appeared in and that we've authored. LEARN MORE CSI Blog Please click the link below to read our blog posts. LEARN MORE Programs The Center for Social Innovation's programs aim to build the nonprofit capacity of organizations in the Inland Empire. LEARN MORE Previous Next Community engagement and policy innovation The Center for Social Innovation provides a credible research voice that spurs civic leadership and policy innovation. Its reputation is built on the key pillars of social science, strategic policy awareness, innovation mindsets, and deep community partnerships. CSI integrates researchers, community organizations, and civic stakeholders in collaborative projects and long-term partnerships that strengthen shared values of resilience, inclusion, sustainability, and equity (RISE). Importantly, the Center seeks to shift away from a “problem” narrative to an “opportunity” narrative for marginalized communities and localities. The Center for Social Innovation focuses on five key areas: Civic Engagement, Economic Mobility, Immigrant Integration, Leadership & Entrepreneurship, and Place Making. Specific to our work in Inland Southern California, our activities in collaborative research, policy innovation, and narrative change are aimed to more fully realize the region’s potential in terms of its civic activities, philanthropic investments, and growing nonprofit sector. Good Jobs Report More Information Frameworks for Action More Information Inland Empire COVID-19 Response More information 2021 Policy Summit Report More Information SoCal Policy Forum More Information KVCR "Socially Innovative" Series More Information What's Next on Census Engagement: Learning from the Minnesota Model More Information Our Salton Sea: Where Theory Meets Practice on Inclusive Economic Development More Information State of the Inland Empire Series Reports on a range of issues Compendium on Civic Engagement and Population Health More Information State of Innovation in the Inland Empire More Information Inland Empire Black Education Agenda More Information In the News (Latest Articles) February 08, 2022 Will redistricting help Black, Latino candidates "Even though the Inland Empire “has been majority minority for a long time, political representation has not caught up,” said Karthick Ramakrishnan, a UC Riverside professor of public policy and founder of the Center for Social Innovation at UCR." Read... Read More » December 22, 2021 Fewer immigrant workers are coming to fill key jobs. That has slowed the U.S. economy "My point is, that's good. Labor tightness is good," says Roy Beck, the founder and president of NumbersUSA, a nonprofit in the Washington, D.C., area that pushes for lower levels of immigration, and the author of a new book called... Read More » December 21, 2021 The U.S. economy is slowing as fewer immigrant workers come to fill jobs ROSE: Roy Beck is the head of NumbersUSA, a nonprofit in Washington that pushes for lower levels of immigration. And he's the author of a new book called "Back Of The Hiring Line." BECK: It is proven that you tighten... Read More » December 12, 2021 Southeast Asians are underrepresented in STEM. The label 'Asian' boxes them out more "Is every Asian American group underrepresented in higher education? Obviously that's not the case," said Janelle Wong, a professor of Asian American studies at the University of Maryland and a co-founder of AAPI Data. "Indian and Chinese students are the... Read More » December 10, 2021 White House adds new initiative for Asian American, Pacific Islander and Native Hawaiian visibility The White House announced a new initiative Thursday, bringing to the table items that grassroots organizers have long been pushing for — among those, disaggregation of data under the ‘Asian’ umbrella and a more diverse array of language options in... Read More » December 09, 2021 Aggregated data masks Asian disparities in Maryland and U.S. For Maryland, “a good first step is to expand current racial identity categories on state forms to include opportunities for respondents to identify not only as Asian or Pacific Islander, but to indicate national origin as well,” said Janelle Wong... Read More » December 02, 2021 Forecast: Southern California to see uneven recovery through 2022 Southern California has reclaimed 70% of the jobs it lost during the COVID-19 pandemic, but the region’s ongoing recovery will be fraught with labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, equity gaps and inflation, according to a new forecast. The report, prepared... Read More » November 15, 2021 New $165 million state fund to battle anti-Asian hate could come this year Ting said applications should be released to community organizations this month, with the process overseen by the state Department of Social Services. Elements of the fund include $10 million set-asides in each of several key areas: • The Stop AAPI... Read More » More News Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Center for Social Innovation 4133 CHASS Interdisciplinary South Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2328 email: socialinnovation@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links UCR School of Public Policy AAPI Data Racial Data Inland California Rising IE Counts SoCal Policy Forum Follow US: CSI on Facebook CSI on Twitter CSI on YouTube external site: LinkedIn external link: RSS Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel