Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Student Experience > Student Support Services Search for: Student Support Services Below you will find information for contacting the offices at the Columbia School of Social Work providing services to students. All offices serve both on-campus and online students. Academic Affairs The Office of Academic Affairs oversees and manages the CSSW’s curriculum, development of new courses, faculty recruitment and development, grievances related to classroom or faculty… Contact Info View Page E-mail: mmj2106@columbia.edu Advising The Office of Advising supports students’ graduate success. Each student is assigned an advisor who is the “point person” during their tenure… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swadvising@columbia.edu Make an appointment with us online. Career Services and Leadership Management The Office of Career Services and Leadership Management guides you in locating suitable career opportunities and in making the right professional decisions… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swcareer@columbia.edu Tel: 212-851-2399 Make an appointment with us online. Computing Services The Office of Computing and Instructional Technology (OCIT) manages the School’s computer, printer and AV equipment and provides user support for online resources… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swit@columbia.edu Tel: 212-851-2345 (option 1 for computing; option 2 for AV) Location: Social Work Building, 4th floor, Room 419 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) The DEI Office oversees and develops programming and services that link issues of diversity, multiculturalism, inclusion, intersectionality, and social justice for students, faculty, and staff. Contact Info View Page E-mail: swdei@columbia.edu Enrollment and Student Services The Office of Enrollment and Student Services helps you with course registration, cross-registration, transfer credits, summer sessions… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swstudentservices@columbia.edu Field Education The Field Education Department works with you on your field placement in one of more than 600 agencies throughout New York City (including all boroughs)… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swfield_education@columbia.edu Tel: 212-851-2307 Financial Aid The Office of Financial Aid assists you in preparing to meet the costs of a social work education by putting together your financial aid package… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swfinaid@columbia.edu Tel: 212-851-2293 Make an appointment with us online. Social Work Library As a student at CSSW, you have access to the Social Work Library, one of the world’s premiere collections in social work and social services… Contact Info View Page E-mail: socwk@libraries.cul.columbia.edu Tel: 212-851-2194 Make an appointment with us online for a research consultation. The Writing Center The Writing Center is here to assist you with any writing issue related to your program of study. Writing Center staff will listen to your… Contact Info View Page E-mail: swwrite@columbia.edu Tel: 212-851-2232 Make an appointment with us online. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT