Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Alumni Search for: Alumni SOCIAL WORK LEADER Lucy Cabrera (Ph.D.'00) Served as President & CEO of Food Bank of New York City for 24 years SOCIAL ENTREPRENEUR Alexis Gallivan (MSW’04) Founder of Blue Marble Ice Cream and Blue Marble Dreams DIRECT PRACTICE SUCCESS Dr. Erin Olivo (MSW'95, MPH’95; PhD, TC’01) Author & integrative medicine expert Welcome! Welcome to the Office of Development and Alumni Relations at the Columbia University School of Social Work. Are you a CSSW alum or about to become one? We urge you to get involved with us. We offer a network of more than 18,000 social work graduates, which can potentially provide you with job leads, mentors, and life-long friends. Contents Services We Offer Spotlight on Alumni Who Give Questions about Alumni Services or Making a Gift? Hear from Alumni Services We Offer As a graduate of the Columbia School of Social Work, you are automatically a member of the CSSW Alumni Association. We offer a range of services to keep you in touch with the School and with each other: Events The CSSW Alumni Association organizes special events such as receptions, workshops, and lectures throughout the academic year. A special highlight is Alumni Day, held in spring semester. To receive emails regarding alumni events and other alumni-related news, we recommend that you register your contact information with the Alumni Directory. (Alternatively, you can send your contact info to sswalumni@columbia.edu, and we will enter the info into the Alumni Directory on your behalf. Please be sure to include your full name and graduation year.) Career Assistance The Office of Career & Leadership Development is committed to providing the School’s alumni with the necessary tools to successfully manage their professional development throughout their careers. To schedule a session with one our career guidance counselors, please send an e-mail to swcareer@columbia.edu. Meantime, we recommend that you take the following five steps: Create an account with CAREER CONNECT, the School’s new online jobs database. This site is maintained by the Office of Career and Leadership Development for the exclusive use of CSSW alums. Join the (closed) group for CSSW alumni and students on LinkedIn, with over a thousand members. Log into the School’s online Alumni Directory where you can find Columbia alumni working in organizations where you may be interested in working. Explore the options on Career Connections, a site maintained by the Columbia Alumni Association (UNI & PW required). This site contains some helpful job board and career fair information (including for the School of Social Work). It also provides access to WETFEET and VAULT.COM, two useful career research tools. Request Transcripts You can obtain your transcript from the University Registrar’s Office, either in person or by sending in a Request for Transcript form. Licensing Assistance For information about New York State LMSW & LCSW licensure information, click here (PDF: 15 pages). For information about licensure in other states, contact that state’s Department of Education. Our Office of Student Services has bulletins with course descriptions going back to 1981. Please send your query to swstudentservices@columbia.edu. Columbia Libraries You can access a number of electronic resources and databases from your home computer through the Alumni and Friends gateway, using your UNI and password. You also have lifetime visiting and reading privileges (borrowing privileges cost $30 per month) at all Columbia University libraries. NOTE: To activate those privileges, you must first register with the Library Information Office at Butler Library and obtain a University ID card (This can only be done by visiting Butler Library. Please make sure to bring a government-issued photo ID with you.) For more information, go to Using the Libraries (on the Columbia Libraries site). Hall of Fame The Hall of Fame honors the alumni of the Columbia School of Social Work who have made outstanding contributions to the theory and/or practice of social work and who, by their example, have added distinction to the social work profession. Go to Hall of Fame Inductees (PDF: 2 pages). All alumni are welcome to nominate other alumni for this honor. Graduates from all fields of practice will receive full consideration in the nomination process. NOTE: Nominees must have obtained their CSSW degree program at least 15 years prior to the year of nomination. Go to Nomination Form. Further Educational Opportunities CSSW is an approved provider of contact hours for New York State. Please check out our list of continuing education workshops, for which you can earn CEUs. In addition, and as a benefit of being an alumna/us, you are eligible to enroll in a number of LCSW-approved for-credit courses every semester (Spring, Summer and Fall). Besides earning credits, alumni who successfully complete a full-semester course will receive 45 New York State CEUs (22.5 CEUs for a half-semester course), except as noted. Go to list of upcoming (as well as previous) LCSW-approved course offerings. Go to course registration form. Alumni Directory Our online Alumni Directory is a great resource when looking for a job, moving to a new city or state, or staying connected with friends. Search for alumni across the globe working in specific organizations, reconnect with classmates, and update your contact information by logging in with your UNI and password. ColumbiaYou ColumbiaYou is a collective memoir sponsored by the Columbia Alumni Association, open to anyone with a Columbia affiliation.Share your story here! Questions? Please contact us at 212-851-2375 or by e-mail: sswalumni@columbia.edu. Spotlight on Alumni Who Give Planned Giving “You thought ahead. It will make a huge difference to Columbia,” says Ryan Hart, Executive Director of Planned Giving, to CSSW alumna Laurie Marsden (Class of 1999), who made a gift through her will to the School of Social Work. As this video playfully demonstrates, Marsden’s planned gift automatically made her a member of Columbia University’s 1754 Society. Annual Fund “At Columbia, I was able to merge my prior work in business with social policy and practices. Regardless of the amount, we should support those with the heart, interest, and capacity to further quality outcomes for children, families, and communities.” —Dr. Ivye Allen, CSSW, Class of ’00 Pay It Forward “CSSW was the foundation for my career. Without the financial support I got, I would never have become a social work researcher. Our support for CSSW can open the road for talented low-income students to achieve the dream of their lives. They will use their talents to serve those most in need.” —Dr. Jaime Alvelo, CSSW, Class of ’81, ’86 Questions about Alumni Services or Making a Gift? For questions about alumni services or events, please contact Jennifer March at: 212-851-2372 | jm1404@columbia.edu For questions about making a gift by will, a gift to the annual fund, or other ways of giving back to the School, please contact: Linara Davidson-Greenidge at 212-853-8128 | sswalumni-dev@columbia.edu Hear from alumni who are making waves, moving mountains, and changing lives tWJ-4w_TXGs eUk5vAC6NmQ DkgdOpCFtac JRlbmjl_-n0 NxtcCfIlap8 With Columbia MSW in Hand, Kainen Bell Wins Fulbright for Research on Brazil Kainen Bell, a 2017 graduate of the Columbia School of Social Work's Advanced Standing Program, has received a Fulbright grant to study in Brazil. Bell will leave for São Paulo in February of 2018 to conduct a research project on the impact the nation’s prolonged recession has had on its social service sector. CAREER STORY: Rachel Waltz (MS'08) Cares for Homeless Veterans One of CSSW's alums, Rachel Waltz, started her career working with the homeless in Brooklyn. Though a non-vet, she transferred to working with homeless vets when she moved to a different state, one with a large veteran population. Her account of the homeless veterans' situation is moving. CAREER STORY: Sweet Dreams Are Made of This: Alexis Miesen (MS'04)'s Story Alexis Miesen, co-founder and co-proprietress of Blue Marble Ice Cream, has taken her degree from the Columbia School of Social Work in some unexpected directions: first, by founding a locavore ice cream shop in Brooklyn and then by expanding the business to a women's collective in Africa. Inzozi Nziza ("Sweet Dreams" in Kinyarwanda) is Rwanda's first and only local ice cream shop. CAREER STORY: Sasha Diamond-Lenow (MSW '09) Combines Social Work with Sports CSSW graduate Sasha Diamond-Lenow (MSW '09) was an advanced standing student who received her degree in just one year. She fell into her dream job combining sports (squash) with social work in an innovative way. CAREER STORY: How Laurie Marsden (MSW'99) Evolved into Helping Other Women Evolve CSSW alumna Laurie Marsden (MSW'99) describes her career path from modeling into studying social work at Columbia, and tells us how she came to launch an online therapy program for women: "8 Steps to Becoming You" at http://lauriemarsden.com/ Interested in applying to Columbia School of Social Work? Visit https://apply.ssw.columbia.edu/apply/ to start your application today. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT