Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Sunmin Kim |Assistant Professor of Sociology Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Sociology Faculty associate, The Dartmouth Consortium of Studies in Race, Migration, and Sexuality (RMS) Sunmin Kim is primarily interested in bringing insights from sociology of culture and knowledge into the studies of race and immigration in the United States. Kim is currently working on a book manuscript that looks at how American social scientists and federal bureaucrats attempted to study immigrants in the early twentieth century, and how such attempts led to the re-invention of the principles of boundary-making around the American nation. To answer these questions, Kim is analyzing archival materials related to the Dillingham Commission Report (1911) – the most comprehensive study of immigrants ever undertaken by the federal government. In his other projects, Kim works on political incorporation of immigrants and their children in New York City; varying cultural criteria of defining "foreigners" in developed countries; political participation of minorities; policy preferences of Asian Americans; guidelines for gathering and analyzing archival data; the National Archive files of early 20th century Korean immigrants; and the relationship between democracy and public opinion polling in East Asia. In addition to his Ph.D. in sociology from University of California, Berkeley, Kim received B.A. and M.A. in sociology from Seoul National University. He teaches courses on contemporary social theory (SOCY 16: Cosntructing Social Theory), immigration (SOCY 48: Immigration, Race, and Ethnicity), and race and power in the United States (SOCY 76: Race, Politics, and Power). + View more View Curriculum Vitae Contact Sunmin.Kim@Dartmouth.edu 301D Blunt, Sociology HB 6104 Education B.A. Seoul National University M.A. Seoul National University M.A. University of California, Berkeley Ph. D. University of California, Berkley Areas of Expertise race /immigration /minority politics /public opinion /historical sociology /sociology of culture and knowledge Selected Publications Kim, Sunmin. 2021. "Fault Lines among Asian Americans: Convergence and Divergence in Policy Opinions" RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of Social Sciences 7(2): 46-67 Link Lara-Milan, Armando, Brian Sargent, and Sunmin Kim. 2020. "Theorizing with Archives: Contingency, Mistakes, and Plausible Alternatives" Qualitative Sociology 43(3): 345-365. Link Kim, Sunmin. 2019. "Rethinking Models of Minority Political Participation: Inter- and Intra-group Variation in Political "Styles" The Du Bois Review: Social Science Research On Race 16(2): 489-510. Link Lara-Milan, Armando, Brian Sargent, and Sunmin Kim. 2019. "Where is the Archive in Historical Sociology? The Case for Ethnographic Dispositions" Trajectories 30. Link Lee, Taeku, and Sunmin Kim. 2018. "The Mechanics of Immigration Polls: A Review" Public Opinion Quarterly 82(1):148-170. Link + View more Works In Progress Re-categorizing Americans: Difference, Distinction, and Belonging in the Dillingham Commission (1907-1911)(Book manuscript in progress) "Assimilation in Market and Politics: Exit and Voice for Children of Imimgrants" "Reworking Whiteness: Challenges to the Racial Ideology of the Dillingham Commission (1907-1911)" "Polling, Public Opinion, and Political Accountability in South Korea" (with Taeku Lee) "Public Trust of Opinion Polls in South Korea: An Analysis of 2018 KGSS Data” (with Taeku Lee) “Boundary-Making across 22-OECD Countries: A Multi-Level Latent Class Approach” (with Inkwan Chung) "Category Traversing: Early Korean Immigrants Eluding the American State" (with Carolyn Choi, Joseph Chong, and Amy Park) Courses SOCY 16 Constructing Social Theory SOCY 48 Immigration, Race, and Ethnicity SOCY 76 Race, Power, and Politics Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback