Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Admissions > Why Columbia? Search for: A Social Work Education for the 21st Century Columbia University’s School of Social Work was founded in 1898. We were the first school of social work in the United States, and we continue to lead the field of social work education today. Whether you join us in New York City or become an MSW student in our online campus, you will be mentored by some of the nation’s foremost researchers and social service practitioners in child and family support policies, racial inequity, criminal justice, school social work, advanced clinical practice, and related areas. By the time you earn your MSW from Columbia, you will have both the academic foundation and the hands-on experience to make a meaningful impact in the lives of society’s most vulnerable members. Request Information Apply Now An MSW with a Difference Look at the Numbers Columbia School of Social Work offers a wide array of program options, robust student support, diverse field placement opportunities, and an extensive alumni network. Frequently Asked Questions Study with Top Researchers At CSSW you will have the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to study with professors whose scientific research is setting the pace for generating new knowledge about social work issues and problems. Faculty & Research Join a World-Class University As a student at Columbia University, you will have access to one of the world’s premier universities, to its faculty and resources, and to its power to convene the world’s top minds. Columbia University Home Page “Columbia helped me think systemically—not just in terms of the clinical world but also in terms of policy, programming, and the organization. You can’t do clinical work without understanding the communities you work with.” —Walter Vega, MSW’04 Dean of Admissions, Ackerman Institute for the Family; Adjunct Professor, CSSW The Columbia Community Engage with Fellow Students dYMFzjCbPEI At the Columbia School of Social Work, you will find a ready-made community of people of diverse backgrounds who share your passion for social service—along with a commitment to groups and activities centered on social causes. Student Life Engage with Alumni Opportunities abound to connect with our School’s 18,000+ alumni all over the globe, many of whom serve as advisors and field supervisors—and are also a source of career guidance counseling, sharing their experiences along with job contacts and leads. Career Services Engage with Leading Thinkers From the moment you request information from our School, you will be invited to interface with some of the world’s most innovative thinkers and practitioners, policy makers and thought influencers in the field of social work, via the School’s livestreamed events—an experience that will become your norm once you enroll. CSSW YouTube Ready to start making waves, moving mountains, and changing lives? Apply Now About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT