Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Alumni Profile Meet a Sociology Major Sociology Degree Information Sociology Course Descriptions Share The Standard Major and Modified Major Graduating Sociology majors who received Certificates of Distinction at the senior lunch, June 2016. Ledah Geller and Joshua Schoenbart at the Senior Lunch, June 2016 Kim Rogers and Yvonne Kwan at the Senior Lunch, June 2016 Sociology Senior Lunch, June 2016 PreviousNext The Standard Major The Standard Major in Sociology consists of eleven courses, to be selected as follows: Prerequisite course: Sociology 1 or 2 One theory course: Sociology 15 or 16 Two methods courses: Sociology 10 AND 11. With approval of the chair, a major may substitute a statistical analysis course offered by another social science department or program. Seven additional Sociology courses numbered 10 or higher. Students must take four Lower Division courses (numbered 20-49), two Upper Division courses (numbered 50-80) and one Culminating Experience course (see below). An Upper Division course may be substituted for a Lower Division course. Standard majors must satisfy the culminating experience requirement by successfully completing any one of the following three options: Senior Independent Study Project (Sociology 90), The Sociological Imagination (Sociology 91), or Honors Thesis (Sociology 98). Because only one term of Sociology 98 counts as one of the seven additional courses numbered 10 or higher that are required for completion of the major, taking a second term of Sociology 98 means that Honor students will typically take at least 12 course credits in Sociology. The Modified Major The Modified Major in Sociology consists of thirteen courses, to be selected as follows: Prerequisite course: Sociology 1 or 2 One theory course: Sociology 15 or 16 Two methods courses: Sociology 10 AND 11. With approval of the chair, a major may substitute a statistical analysis course offered by another social science department or program. Five additional Sociology courses numbered 10 or higher. (Plus four courses in another department). Students must take three Lower Division courses (numbered 20-49), one Upper Division course (numbered 50-80) and one Culminating Experience course (see below) An Upper Division course may be substituted for a Lower Division course. Four courses in another department, or in a concentrated area of study (from more than one department), approved by the department chair. Modified majors must satisfy the culminating experience requirement by successfully completing any one of the following three options: Senior Independent Study Project (Sociology 90), The Sociological Imagination (Sociology 91), or Honors Thesis (Sociology 98). Because only one term of Sociology 98 counts as one of the five additional courses numbered 10 or higher that are required for completion of the modified major, taking a second term of Sociology 98 means that Honor students will typically take at least 10 course credits in Sociology. Students establishing a modified major must submit a modified major proposal form to the Chair. The form includes a written statement of the proposed field or topic, plus a list of all courses to be taken for credit toward the modified major. The proposal should address the intellectual coherence of the proposed course of study. Proposals for modified majors must be submitted to the department no later than the beginning of the third term prior to the student's graduation (for example, the beginning of fall term senior year in most cases). Extensions may be granted on rare occasions with permission of the Chair. Downloadable forms for course planning: major_worksheet_04222016.pdf major_worksheet_04222016.pdf Modified Major Proposal Form Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback