Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share Upper Division Upper level courses in sociology typically have a significant research component and require self-direction on the student's part. It is expected that students have some familiarity with basic sociological perspectives and methods. Students lacking this sociological background may need to do supplemental reading to get up to speed. Upper Division 50. Sociology of Law 51. Prisons: The American Way of Punishment 53. Power, Politics, and the State 54. Chasing the (Causal) Dragon: Intermediate Quantitative Data Analysis for Sociologists 55. Poverty and Public Policy in the US 56. Sociology of Gender 58. Education and Inequality 60. Dangerous Intersections: Race, Class and Gender 61. Unstalling the Stalled Revolution: Gender (In)equality at Work and at Home 62. Love, Romance, Intimacy and Dating 63. Trust in Society 64. The Sociology of Emotion 65. Social Psychology of Inequality 66. Markets and Management 67. The Political Power of Ideas 68. Global Health Systems 69. The Sociology of Globalization 70. American Labor Relations 71. Race Matters - "Race" Made to Matter 72. Critical Community Sociology 73. Economic Sociology: From Tax to Fraud 74. Professionals, Policy and Practice 75. Neighborhoods and Health 76. Race, Power, and Politics 77. The Power of Numbers 79. Upper Division Special Topics Courses 80. Independent Study For the most up-to-date listing of when each course will be offered, please see the Courses by Term section 50. Sociology of Law (course syllabus) This course will consider the relationship between law and society, analyzing law as an expression of cultural values, a reflection of social and political structure, and an instrument of social control and social change. Complimenting this general perspective will be a more detailed examination of selected legal institutions, such as the court system, the police, regulatory agencies, and the legal profession. Readings will include both theoretical works and empirical studies. Prerequisite: Sociology 1 or 2, or permission of the instructor. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. King. back to top 51. Prisons: The American Way of Punishment (course syllabus) Prison as a place of confinement, punishment and rehabilitation is the focus of this survey of the history, philosophies, structure and operation of corrections in the U. S. The course critically examines the concept of prison as a total institution and its panopticism as a model of social control that extends to other social contexts. The course will explore the world of inmates and their strategies of subcultural adaptations to and resistance against incarceration; as well as the role of the prison staff. Particular attention will be paid to how gender, race, economics and politics structure prison policies and dynamics. Specific topics may include cultural representations of prison life, implications of current sentencing practices, privatization and the prison-industrial complex, incarcerated mothers, capital punishment, juvenile justice, and alternatives to incarceration. Open to all classes. DIST: SOC; WCult: W. King. back to top 53. Power, Politics, and the State (course syllabus) In response to economic globalization, distrust of government, inequality, budget deficits, inflation, unemployment and other problems, the United States experienced a conservative shift in domestic policy during the 1980s and 1990s. This course explores the political struggles over these problems that led to the "right turn" in U.S. policy. To that end it explores several theoretical perspectives and research findings. In particular, the course examines how political and economic institutions, business, union, citizens, political elites, think tanks and political parties affected national policy in these problem areas. To highlight the unique features of the American case we will occasionally examine how other advanced capitalist countries tried to cope with similar problems. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Campbell. back to top 54. Chasing the (Causal) Dragon: Intermediate Quantitative Data Analysis for Sociologists (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with QSS 54) Sociologists and other social scientists are often interested in understanding causal and dynamic social processes such as: "How do the places we live, work, and play get under the skin and affect health and well-being across the life course?" "Does upward social class mobility change one's political attitudes?" "What social currents are responsible for changes in support for same-sex marriage across historical time?" "Are long-standing racial inequalities declining, persisting, or increasing in recent years?"Many of these questions are methodologically difficult to answer with observational (non-experimental) data, and they require that we get a handle on the study of change, context, and causality. You likely have learned how to answer questions like these with standard OLS (linear) regression techniques and cross-sectional data, which remain useful tools in social scientists' methodological toolbox. But these techniques are also quite limited, and impose strict assumptions that do not allow us to meet many of our goals, adequately answer our questions, or provide stringent tests of our theories and hypotheses.In this course, we'll pick up where introductory statistics courses leave off, and get an introduction to more advanced statistical methods for observational data, including but not limited to: regression for categorical dependent variables, fixed and random effects models, and hierarchical linear modeling. This course will be a mix of seminar and lecture, where we will be focused on understanding how we can use these methods to better meet our goals and answer our research questions. Put differently, this course is less focused on going "under the hood" and more focused on "how to drive"—specifically, we will interrogate the assumptions and use of these statistical methods in the social sciences and learn how to implement these methods using STATA. This will include: discussion of core methodological assumptions and limitations, how to apply these statistical methods in different settings, and learning when specific methods are appropriate tools and when they are not. We will explore these issues through student-led discussions, hands-on data analysis, and dissecting the application of these methods in academic journal articles. As part of this course, you will be exposed to (and critique) a wide range of sociological research published in our major disciplinary journals. The course will culminate in an independent research project where students will analyze data and use the one or more of the modeling techniques discussed during the term to answer a sociological research question of their choosing. Prerequisite: SOCY 10 or equivalent and a basic understanding of STATA is required to enroll in this course. Dist: QDS. Houle. back to top 55. Poverty and Public Policy in the US (course syllabus) Not currently offered More than one in ten Americans lives in poverty according to official statistics. This course explores the nature and extent of poverty in the United States and the role of the government in addressing poverty issues. How do we measure poverty? Why does poverty persist? Why is there so little political discourse about poverty in America today? How effective are various poverty alleviation programs? Dist: SOC; WCult: W. back to top 56. Sociology of Gender (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with WGSS 34.04) What is gender? This seminar examines multiple sociological perspectives on what it means to be a woman, man, boy, or girl in everyday life - including gender as a social structure, an identity, an ideology, and something people "do." Readings and discussions reflect a belief that diversity (race/ethnicity, class, age, sexuality, etc.) is central to the study of gender. Possible topics include: language, the body, science, the wage gap, education, and masculinity during young adulthood. Dist: SOC. McCabe. back to top 58. Education and Inequality (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with EDUC 24) How are schools organized and how do they organize society? What effects do schools have on individuals and what effects do they have on society? Using sociological theories and methods, we will examine the structure of schools and their effects on individuals and society. We will explore both formal and informal education. This course will focus on inequalities, specifically how social class, race, gender, and sexuality both organize and are organized by educational environments. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. McCabe. back to top 60. Dangerous Intersections: Race, Class and Gender (course syllabus) Race, class or gender have, to varying degrees, traditionally been employed within the academic disciplines as separate variables or distinct categories of analysis. Increasingly, however, there are calls for and attempts at understanding the relationships among systems of race/ethnicity, sex/gender and class differentiation. Through engaging both theoretical and empirical works, this course will examine the ways in which the simultaneous and interdependent dynamics between these systems shape identity formation and life changes, relationships of marginality and privilege, social continuity and social conflict. It will critically explore the challenges and advantages of intersectional analysis in such contexts as play and leisure, economic roles, sexuality, and law. Dist: SOC. King. Allen. back to top 61. Unstalling the Stalled Revolution: Gender (In)equality at Work and at Home (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with QSS 30.17, WGSS 33.05) The nature of work, family life, and gender relations has changed dramatically over the last half century. This course examines these trends, with a focus on implications for gender inequality in society. We will focus on patterns in paid labor force participation and family life in the United States, and discuss the major debates surrounding the causes and consequences of such trends. We will also pay attention to how these patterns look across different races, ethnic groups, and socioeconomic status, as well as briefly examine how these trends compare to other countries. We will conclude by exploring the implication of gender inequality for families, as well as work-family policy debates. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. back to top 62. Love, Romance, Intimacy and Dating (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with WGSS 33.07) Why do you connect with some people and not others? What exactly is love? And how do you make smart, romantic choices for yourself? In this course, we examine the social aspects of love, romance, intimacy and dating. Using sociological theories and methods, we will investigate how cultural beliefs and structural arrangements affect our most intimate feelings and experiences. Specific topics include virginity loss, adolescent sexual behavior, hooking up, dating, intimacy and polyamory. Dist: SOC. Lively. back to top 63. Trust in Society (course syllabus) Not currently offered You trust your friend to repay the $10 you loaned her last week; investors trust the stock market to accurately value corporate resources; you trust members of your class work group to complete their parts of the group project; patients trust doctors to inform them about the best treatments; some people trust Uber but others trust taxi services; waitresses trust patrons to tip them for good service; many but not all citizens trust the government to enforce laws fairly. The word trust appears as a verb in each of these examples, but do we really mean the same thing by trust in each of these very different situations? What exactly is trust anyway, and why does it matter? Social science and popular press literature of the past decade suggests that trust is the cause of many "good" things, such as the source of cooperation, the basis of democracy, the foundation of the market economy, the source of national economic power, the key, even, to morality. Given its relation to all things good, it is not surprising that some commentators speak with alarm when they claim that "trust is declining" in society. In this course we will explore the following questions: What is trust and what are its benefits? How is trust created? How is trust destroyed? Is trust declining in modern society? How would we know if it was? We will read and discuss theoretical and empirical research on trust from sociology and from across the social sciences. Prerequisite: Sociology 1 or 2 and one other Sociology course. Dist: SOC. Anthony. back to top 64. The Sociology of Emotion (course syllabus) Not currently offered Most people think of emotions as a purely internal experience, composed solely of physiological elements. Recently, however, sociologists have begun to emphasize and explore the social side of emotion—for example, how emotions are shaped socially and culturally, how emotions are socially controlled, and the consequences of emotion for social life. We will examine these and other sociological aspects of emotional experience in this course, including exploring current debates about the social functions of emotions, especially as they pertain to the substantive areas of work and family. Topics include the social causes of emotion; cultural variations in feeling and expression norms (especially in regard to love and anger); changes in American norms over time; the shaping of children's emotions through socialization; individual and social techniques of emotion management; the social distribution of emotional experience; the social functions of emotion; emotional deviance; and the individual and social consequences of emotional display. Dist: SOC. Lively. back to top 65. Social Psychology of Inequality (course syllabus) Sociological social psychology examines the relationship between individuals and the larger social systems in which they are embedded, including interactions, groups, institutions, and cultures. This course will use key social psychological concepts (e.g., status, power, stigma, justice, identity) to explore how inequality is created, reproduced, and resisted. We will study how inequality operates in different social and institutional contexts (e.g., work, family, schools), and for members of different social groups (e.g., race, class, gender, age). Dist: SOC. Rogers. Prerequisite: Sociology 1 or Sociology 2. back to top 66. Markets and Management (course syllabus) What is money? How do people find jobs? Are markets competitive or cooperative? This course examines these and other questions about how economic behavior is organized, operates and changes historically. It recognizes that economic activity is socially organized and guided by political, cultural and normative as well as economic principles. It explores how economic activity takes many forms, including groups of small competitive firms, large and powerful corporations, and diffuse networks of companies tied together through inter-firm alliances, business associations and other sorts of cooperative and competitive relations with each other, unions, government agencies and universities. It examines the organization and operation of different kinds of markets, different theories of how economic activity is organized, and the social factors that contribute to economic success or failure. It also investigates how managers, unions, policy makers and governments are coping with recent economic challenges, such as those posed by technological change and the globalization of economic activity. Because this is a course in economic sociology-not economics-no background in economics is required. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Harrington. back to top 67. The Political Power of Ideas (formerly Ideas, Politics and Crisis) (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with PBPL 82.02) Politicians fight constantly over ideas. This course explores where these ideas come from and how politicians try to convince us that their ideas are best. It examines how people's values influence which ideas they believe or not. It questions the role of experts in policy making and whether we should trust them. And it analyzes how policy ideas change. Emphasis is largely but not entirely on the political power of ideas in the United States. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Campbell. back to top 68. Global Health Systems (course syllabus) Not currently offered Health care systems are unique to the culture and history of each nation. However, all face similar challenges. This course examines health systems across developed and developing nations. Comparisons will be made in terms of: (a) population health, (b) health care organization, (c) health care financing, (d) health professionals and their patients, and (e) health system performance and reform strategies. Understanding how health care is delivered around the world will lead to a better understanding of the relative merits and limitations of various systems. The course is structured as a seminar in which students will be expected to discuss course readings in-depth, as well as develop and present their own research on specific countries of interest. Dist: INT; WCult: NW. Jones. back to top 69. The Sociology of Globalization (course syllabus) This interdisciplinary course provides a critical approach to global urban studies, with a particular focus on race, migration, and the built environment. By scrutinizing sites of "globalization"—ships, railroads, ports, islands, plantations, canneries, slums, camps, museums, ghettos, cemeteries, infrastructures, archives—students will explore themes such as segregation, slave trade, anti-blackness, urban violence, settler colonialism, urban renewal, necropolitics, and environmental racism. The course will engage in a historical and postcolonial dialogue to offer students critical methods to "spatialize" intertwined histories of racial closure across continents. Dist: SOC or INT. Eom. back to top 70. American Labor Relations (course syllabus) This course examines the political, cultural, and economic sources of solidarity and mobilization among workers in the US from the late 19th century to the present. Readings and discussion will focus on important historical developments among labor unions, from militant beginnings through an accommodationist phase after World War II and a deep decline, to recent attempts at revitalization. Students will consider the impacts of labor movements on social inequality, politics and on a range of cross-cutting issues around gender, immigration and race. We will conclude by examining the prospects for labor in light of the rapid and profound changes in the world of work and economic activity in the contemporary period. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Dixon. back to top 71. Race Matters - "Race" Made to Matter (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with AAAS 63) What is race? What are the effects of race in our everyday life? How has science shaped our understanding of race and human diversity? This course explores how and why race is a social construction with profound implications in our social world not only in the U.S. but also beyond its shores. Diverse sciences have established that human beings are well over 99% genetically identical, but race remains a potent vision through division that has been made and made to matter across multiple spheres of life. This ranges from ancestry testing to our identities to how we are categorized to where we live and whom we are taught to love and hate in society. How race intersects with socio-economic disparities related to inclusion and exclusion are among the topics examined in this course. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Keaton back to top 72. Critical Community Sociology (course syllabus) This class will focus on interrogating the drivers of inequality in rural and small-town communities. To understand this, we critically examine several interconnected issues: culture, health, racial equity, education, environment, infrastructure, social services, economic justice, and geographic isolation. This course has an experiential learning component. Students will apply the concepts learned in class to real issues faced by an Upper Valley community partner, completing a research portfolio that includes a literature review and field research on a matter of concern for the organization. This community-engaged course is not only an opportunity to meet the needs of a community partner but also to learn from their existing assets and strengths. Students who wish to enroll in this course should have previously completed either Introduction to Sociology or Social Problems. This requirement may be waived for students who have taken certain other sociology courses; contact the instructor to find out if you are eligible. Distribs Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Walton back to top 73. Economic Sociology: From Tax to Fraud (course syllabus) Just over a century ago, Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter argued that human history, culture and politics cannot be properly understood without taking fiscal events—such as taxation and state budgeting—into account. War, the development of industry, and of capitalism itself all stemmed, he claimed, from the evolution of a "tax state." From this insight, a century of research has emerged, spanning a wide range of fiscal activities by states, as well as by private actors. This course will review key themes of this subfield of sociology through four empirical topics: the world of high finance, including the social coordination and networks involved in the trading of securities and commodities; social organization and consequences of financial fraud in a variety of domains, including currency counterfeiting; social history of taxation, including social movements stemming from tax revolts; and system of offshore finance as a mechanism for reproducing inequality and elites. Dist: SOC. Harrington back to top 74. Professionals, Policy and Practice (course syllabus) Professionals, Policy & Practice examines how professionals have come to be among the most influential actors in contemporary organizations and the global political economy. Professionals have long been the focus of research in organization and management studies, but interest in them crosses disciplinary boundaries; thus, the course will include readings from sociology, accounting, legal studies, finance, and political science. We'll draw on their varied theories, methods and approaches to examine how and why professionals coordinate and compete, shaping norms, standards and practices within and among organizations. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Harrington back to top 75. Neighborhoods and Health (course syllabus) Just as conditions within our homes have important implications for our health, conditions in the neighborhoods surrounding our homes also can have major health effects. Social, economic, and environmental features of neighborhoods have been linked with mortality, general health status, disability, birth outcomes, chronic conditions, obesity, depression, injuries, violence, health behaviors and more. In this course, we consider whether and how the characteristics of neighborhoods shape the physical and mental health of individuals, and how neighborhoods contribute to persistent health disparities. Special attention will be devoted to conceptual and methodological challenges to detecting the prevalence and magnitude of 'neighborhood effects' on health. Dist: SOC. Sharp. back to top 76. Race, Power, and Politics (course syllabus) This course sets out to understand race and ethnicity as the product of, as well as a basis for, political struggles. The conventional sociological understanding of race and ethnicity focuses on difference. That is, although sociologists take pains to argue that racial and ethnic differences are socially constructed, the vast, long-standing inequality among racial and ethnic groups make it very tempting to perceive the status quo as inevitable, if not natural. In order to counter this trend, we have to center the concept of power and trace how racial and ethnic divisions came to emerge from the political struggles of the past. And in doing so, it is crucial to understand not only successes but also failures of white supremacy—namely that non-whites have always disrupted workings of the dominant system, sometimes through electoral politics and other times through direct action. Kim. back to top 77 The Power of Numbers (course syllabus) While statistics and quantitative data are increasingly becoming important components of our lives, the specific social processes through which they are engineered remain elusive to many of us. We learn math, statistics, and quantitative methods in classes, but most often those courses glance over the social contexts in which the technology of numbers was developed. In this course, we trace the development of statistics and quantitative analysis through modern times in an attempt to understand how they have been used and perceived in society. We also address recent controversies surrounding their implementation in businesses and government institutions, especially in relation to algorithmic decision making. In the process, we will establish that statistics and quantitative data are not just abstract, formal tools whose meanings are absolute and obvious, but that they are social constructs embedded in particular institutions, such as the state and market. While statistics and quantitative data are increasingly becoming important components of our lives, the specific social processes through which they are engineered remain elusive to many of us. We learn math, statistics, and quantitative methods in classes, but most often those courses glance over the social contexts in which the technology of numbers was developed. In this course, we trace the development of statistics and quantitative analysis through modern times in an attempt to understand how they have been used and perceived in society. We also address recent controversies surrounding their implementation in businesses and government institutions, especially in relation to algorithmic decision making. In the process, we will establish that statistics and quantitative data are not just abstract, formal tools whose meanings are absolute and obvious, but that they are social constructs embedded in particular institutions, such as the state and market. back to top 79. Upper Division Special Topics Courses 79.04 Drugs and Pharmaceuticals in Society (course syllabus) Not currently offered Licit and illicit drugs make illuminating case studies for our economic and political systems. We explore the following questions: Are profit motives and humanitarian concerns in irresolvable conflict? Does the international network of illegal drugs show the future of globalization? Does pharmaceutical lobbying demonstrate the anti-democratic influence of money? Is the "war on drugs" political demagoguery or a rational response to human weakness? We will use readings, research papers and discussions to explore these questions. back to top 79.05 Black Middle Class Not currently offered This course critically explores the idea as well as the experiences of "the Black middle class." We will consider the theoretical insights of DuBois' "talented tenth," Cooper 's gendered "race consciousness," Frazier's "black bourgeoisie," and dominant approaches to stratification (Weber, Bourdieu).Contemporary sociological studies, plus memoirs and biographies, will enrich our analyses of their economic participation and homeownership, family and social life, politics and activism, ethnic and class conflicts, and the persistent impacts of racism. King. back to top 79.06 Sociology of the Body (course syllabus) Not currently offered Can social life exist without bodies? How can attention to the body influence our understanding of social processes of subjectivity, interaction, and practice? This seminar provides an overview of sociological approaches to the body across the study of gender, race, class, (dis)ability, sport, medicine, technology, and more. Students will complete a course-long research project in which they analyze the impact and meanings of bodies in a particular social or media context. Dist: SOC. back to top 79.08 Lest We Forget: History, Collective Memory and Slavery at Dartmouth (course syllabus) Beyond noting that Wheelock owned slaves, little is known of Dartmouth's other historical connections, if any, to the institution of slavery. This research seminar investigates the college's economic entanglement in the trade and slaveholding; as a site for the intellectual legitimation and contestation of slavery; and the contributions of enslaved persons to its development. We will also review the origins, findings and responses to similar collective memory projects at other institutions including Brown, Emory and Yale. Prerequisite: Any sociology course or permission of the instructor. King. back to top 79.11 Nationalism and the Radical Right (course syllabus) This course will introduce you to recent social science contributions to the subject of neo-nationalism and radical right-wing activism. Beginning with terminology, historical context and methodological approaches, we will proceed to an analysis of recent socio-political developments, focusing on the interrelationship between radical right-wing activism and other social phenomena. We will interrogate the reasons behind the appeal of the far right, inquiring into various socio-economic contexts, the role of historical narratives in shaping far-right activism, and the "mainstreaming" of far-right ideas. An overarching question for all these discussions will be that of the agency and motivations of the actors involved. We will draw cases from numerous contexts around the world and will reflect on similar developments on the political left. The course will allow for discussion of the most recent developments, as experienced by class attendees and reported by mass media. Finally, we will discuss ethical aspects of studying right-wing (and, for that matter, any political) radicalism. Pasieka. back to top 79.13 Socio/Poetics: Cultural Inquiry in the 20th and 21st centuries (course syllabus)(Cross-listed with ENGL 55.22) This course introduces students to a cultural history of the relationship between Sociology and Literature in America from the early twentieth century to the present. Taking inspiration from recent scholarly approaches to literary interpretation that draw on sociological methods for interpreting texts quantitatively, relationally, and descriptively, we will also examine the ways in which sociology has long been occupied by phenomena often associated with literature: subjectivity, uncertainty, and linguistic form. Beginning with the institutionalization of sociology in the 1920s and 1930s, we will explore aesthetic texts alongside sociological works and other cultural documents. In doing so we will situate ourselves in a historical milieu and reconsider conventional literary categories and lineages such as documentary and docupoetry, the photo-essay, and New Journalism through the lens of their response to and use of sociological methods and tropes. Dist: LIT. Becker back to top 80. Independent Study All terms: Arrange By permission of a Sociology Faculty member PRIOR to registration. This course offers the qualified student an opportunity to pursue a subject of special interest, under the direction of a faculty adviser assigned to the student for periodic (usually weekly) conferences. Ordinarily at least one formal paper embodying the results of the reading or research is required. In special situations students may work as a team on a single project. Occasionally credit may be given in Sociology 80 for a research project done in an off-campus term, provided arrangements are made well in advance and adequate off-campus supervision can be assured. Although every effort will be made to accommodate qualified students desiring to carry an independent study, there is no guarantee that independent study can be arranged for any given student in any given term, and preference is given to senior and junior Sociology majors. Normally no student may take Sociology 80 more than twice during the undergraduate career. back to top Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback