Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Giving Opportunities Search for: Giving Opportunities Our world needs Columbia-trained social workers. Your gift today ensures that the Columbia School of Social Work fulfills its mission to advance social justice and enhance the well-being of the people and communities of New York City, the nation, and around the world. Thank you for your partnership in shaping the kind of society we live in. Make a Gift CSSW Annual Funds COLUMBIA SOCIAL WORK FUND Make a Gift The Columbia Social Work Fund is one of many ways to support our exceptional social work students. These gifts provide immediate resources, where they are needed most, that make a Columbia social work education possible and enhance the student experience. The greatest need today is student scholarships. FINANCIAL AID GIFT FUND Make a Gift Contributions to the Financial Aid Gift Fund make it possible for CSSW to award scholarships to 90% of the student body. For some students, these funds are critical to opening the doors to a CSSW education. The most important way we make CSSW accessible to people from all backgrounds is through scholarships. CSSW STUDENT EMERGENCY RELIEF FUND Make a Gift Even before the pandemic, roughly 40 percent of Americans would struggle to cover an emergency $400 expense. Today, social work students are especially vulnerable in the face of family crises, last-minute relocations, and loss of income and opportunity due to the twin pandemics of COVID-19 and anti-Black racism. The CSSW Student Emergency Relief Fund provides direct financial relief to students when they need it most. ACTION LAB FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE Make a Gift Building on our rapidly developed COVID-19 action initiative, the Action Lab for Social Justice promotes anti-racism and combats systemic inequalities. By challenging the beliefs, policies, and systems that divide us, this group of students and faculty members uses education, research, and practice to strive for justice and equity. Questions about Making a Gift? For questions about making a gift, please contact: Linara Davidson-Greenidge at 212-853-8128 | sswalumni-dev@columbia.edu If you would prefer to make a gift via mail instead of through our online form, please mail your check to: Columbia Alumni Center Attention: Gift Systems 622 West 113th Street, MC 4524 New York, NY 10025 About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT