Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Recruiters Search for: Recruiters Are you seeking the next generation of social work leaders, advocates, and changemakers? At Columbia School of Social Work, you will find a talented and diverse pool of candidates who are passionate about improving the welfare of individuals and communities around the world. To discuss how we can work together, please complete our employer partnership form. If you are currently a field educator and/or are interested in hosting MSW interns during the academic year, please refer to the Field Educator page. For general inquiries, please email swcareer@columbia.edu. Customize Your Recruitment Plan We offer a number of ways to connect with our students and graduates and can help you design a customized recruitment plan based on your organization’s needs. Job Postings Through our free online recruitment system, Career Connect, you can advertise your full-time openings, summer internships, and fellowship opportunities to 900+ MSW students and a growing network of alumni. To post, go to the Career Connect site and create an account, or log in using your existing username and password. You can choose to have applicants submit their application materials through the system, on your website, or via email to a specified contact. All job and internship postings are subject to approval. For field placement-related opportunities, please review the requirements to become a field practicum site on the Field Educators page and contact the Field Education team directly. Information Sessions In addition to posting on Career Connect, you can build your employer brand, promote opportunities, and connect directly with our talent by leading an information session on campus. We are happy to work with you and your team to secure space and market your event at no cost. This is a great opportunity to meet prospective candidates face-to-face, showcase your organization’s mission, values, and impact in the field, and recruit for immediate and projected openings. Information sessions are typically held on Tuesdays from 1:00 to 1:50 pm for graduating students and Thursdays from 1:00 to 1:50 pm for first-years. If interested, please make sure to complete the employer partner form, and we will do our best to accommodate your request. Columbia School of Social Work is located at 1255 Amsterdam Avenue between 121st and 122nd Street on Manhattan’s Upper West Side and is easily accessible by public transportation or car. For more details, go to Map & Directions. <--[faq_box title="Employer Site Visits"]Another way to raise the visibility of your organization is to host an informational site visit for a small group of students, which we can help organize. Typically held on Fridays, site visits may run between 2-3 hours and include a presentation or information session about the organization, its hiring processes, and employment opportunities, as well as a panel, Q&A, and/or networking opportunity with current employees in relevant roles. A tour of the office or worksite may be included, if appropriate. [/faq_box]--!> Job Fairs Every year, the Metro New York Social Work Consortium hosts an annual job fair at Columbia University or New York University to provide employers a unique opportunity to recruit a large number of graduating MSW students and early career alumni for immediate and future openings in one place. Participating schools include Adelphi University, Columbia University, Fordham University, Hunter College, Lehman College, Long Island University, New York University, Stony Brook University, Touro College, and Yeshiva University. Additional Engagement Opportunities Building brand recognition can take time, but engaging with students early on can help boost your organization’s reputation in a robust and tangible way. We invite you to share your expertise and serve as an integral part of our students’ career and professional development by participating in our educational programs. These may include workshops, panels, and informal career conversations focused on helping students learn about different career paths, employer perspectives and expectations, and strategies to enhance their marketability. We look forward to hearing from you to discuss potential partnership opportunities. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT