Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share The Thesis Proposal An honors thesis proposal is a document written by a student in consultation with his/her honors thesis advisor. It identifies the problem or question that the student will address in the thesis and explains how the student will go about investigating it. The proposal is a blue print that guides the thesis project. It often constitutes a rough version of the first chapter of the thesis itself. Most proposals contain the following parts. What Should a Thesis Proposal Contain? Statement of the problem: This section identifies the specific problem or question that the student will investigate and briefly explains why it is of sociological interest. This section often includes a preliminary review of the sociological literature that explains why the student's research problem or question is important and how it relates to other sociological work that has been done. Hypothesis: The proposal should identify one or more specific hypotheses that the student will test empirically. The hypothesis is often derived from literature that has already been published. The proposal also often identifies key dependent and independent variables and explains how they will be operationalized. Data: The proposal should identify the data that the student will use in the thesis and where it will come from. Data may come from a variety of sources and take a variety of forms, such as archival documents (e.g., government documents, newspapers, memoirs, etc.) or surveys (e.g., U.S. Census, General Social Survey, etc.). If the student plans to collect his/her own data, such as through a survey, experiment, participant observation, interviews, etc., he/she should explain how the data will be collected. Issues of sampling, case study selection, etc. should be discussed. Analysis: The student should explain how the data will be analyzed once it is located and/or collected. It is especially important to outline a research design that explains the sorts of empirical comparisons that will be involved and how this will shed light on the student's hypothesis. If quantitative data will be analyzed, what statistical techniques will likely be involved? Human subjects approval: If the student plans to conduct interviews, administer a survey, or observe human subjects he/she must obtain approval for the study from Dartmouth's Committee for the Protection of Human Subjects (phone: 646-3053/1598) before data are collected. This is mandatory Dartmouth College policy. Timetable: The student should establish a timetable for each step of the thesis process. Dates should be set by which the literature review, development of data collection tools, data collection, analysis, production of draft chapters and other critical parts of the thesis project will be completed. Thesis outline: An outline of the thesis should be provided indicating its overall organization, i.e., a preliminary "Table of Contents." Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback