Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Social Media Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Best Practices Policies Social Branding Social Media Directory Humans of OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Best Practices Policies Social Branding Social Media Directory Humans of OSU Social Branding In many instances, social media is the front door to accessing and learning more about the university. It is a tool to tell Oregon State’s story to multiple audiences and demographics. We have developed a system that will bring visual consistency and credibility to our brand and yours on social media. Avatars and Profile Pictures To create a consistent look, please pick one of the following avatars for all official Oregon State affiliated social media platforms: Download Download Download Download If you are unsure which avatar you should use, please contact our social media team. Cover Photos This is where your page’s identity shines. Choose or capture an image that best represents your entity according to our brand’s photo style. Make sure it’s in a landscape configuration and is cropped to the dimensions of the image space in the social platform you are using. Refer to Sprout Social's most up-to-date guide to social media image size. Account Names To make it easier for the user to spot the difference between official and unofficial Oregon State accounts, all accounts should adopt this formatting: Longform Use the full name for platforms like Facebook that do not have a character limit for page names. [College/Department/Group] - Oregon State University Examples College of Public Health and Human Sciences - Oregon State University College of Forestry - Oregon State University Student Health Services - Oregon State University School of Public Policy - Oregon State University Sustainability Office - Oregon State University Shortform Some platforms like Twitter, Instagram or Snapchat have shorter character limits for page names. In that case, default to abbreviations. Examples CPHHS - Oregon State Forestry - Oregon State Student Health - OSU Public Policy - OSU Sustainability - Oregon State Account Handles Like account names, handles should be consistent university-wide. However, handles are more limited by character count and naming will have some flexibility. Additionally, many users may have already memorized your handles, so changing your handle to the below format is optional. Your handle should be what users know you by most. If possible and desired, usernames should have “OregonState” or “OSU” at the end. This is a consistent branch from the university’s main @OregonState accounts, and brings recognizable affiliation with Oregon State to accounts. Examples @CPHHSOSU @COFOregonState @SHSOregonState @PublicPolicyOSU @SustainableOSU Contact Info [email protected] OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube OSU's Linked In Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer