Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Faculty & Research > Faculty Openings Search for: Faculty Openings The Columbia School of Social Work (CSSW) invites applications for tenure-track faculty positions at the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor (pre-tenure). At CSSW, we seek to place social justice and racial justice at the center of all we do. We acknowledge the persistence and devastating consequences of racist policies and practices and are committed to working in opposition to these forces to promote human well-being at every level across all strata of society, and to ensure that all can reach their full potential. CSSW is now seeking scholars of race and racism, with a particular focus on anti-Black and/or anti-Latinx/a/o racism. We are adopting a “systems thinking” approach to analyzing the complex forces that drive disparities, and how those forces interrelate. A systems science mindset affords us the opportunity to explore how economic, education, criminal justice, child welfare, technology, implementation, and health systems are interwoven and have a deep impact on the well-being of Black and Latinx/a/o individuals, families, and communities. We are actively recruiting additional colleagues to join a growing cluster of post-docs and faculty at the junior and senior levels in the aforementioned areas to help untangle these formidable issues and reveal systems solutions to restructuring policies and practices to maximize well-being and achieve equity for Black and Latinx/a/o communities. For more than 120 years, CSSW has been a leader in educating professionals for careers in social work practice, policy, and administration. The School offers master’s and doctoral programs that are widely recognized for their excellence. In addition, we aim to maintain a work environment in which all faculty can thrive. PLEASE CONSIDER JOINING US! To apply, please click on the link below. While we set a priority deadline for applications of November 18th, 2021, we are continuing to accept applications on a rolling basis. Apply for Tenure-Track Assistant or Associate Professor of Social Work here. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT