Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure While You Are There Courses, Credits, and Grades Housing In Copenhagen Share Exchange Program The Department of Sociology offers an undergraduate student exchange program with the University of Copenhagen in Denmark. The University of Copenhagen is the largest, most prestigious and oldest (est. 1479) university in Denmark and among the best universities in Europe. It offers a variety of social science courses in English—many designed specifically for students from North American and other European universities. Students may choose courses in sociology, anthropology, government, psychology, and economics. The Social Science Campus at the University of Copenhagen. (Courtesy of Professor John Campbell.) Canal and cafes in Copenhagen. (Courtesy of Professor John Campbell.) Downtown Copenhagen. (Courtesy of Professor John Campbell.) The Royal Palace and Marble Church. (Courtesy of Professor John Campbell.) The Royal Opera House. (Courtesy of Professor John Campbell.) PreviousNext Why Copenhagen? The exchange is Dartmouth's only off-campus program in any Scandinavian country. It allows students to benefit from the experience of a large, urban university in a country with social, political and economic systems that are much different from those in the United States. Students will be able to take courses that often focus on these systems. In particular, the Scandinavian countries are noted for having the most egalitarian economic systems in the world, social democratic governments, generous welfare states, and in most cases very liberal cultural traditions. The program will enable students to become fully affiliated members of the University of Copenhagen with complete access to libraries, lectures, seminars and, of course, the beautiful city of Copenhagen, and surrounding environs! Sociology and Beyond The program is especially relevant for students majoring or minoring in sociology or modifying other majors with sociology. Many of the courses offered in Copenhagen in the past and approved for transfer credit to Dartmouth cover subjects not taught at Dartmouth and that could fit into Dartmouth majors and minors in ways that substantially augment a student's educational experience. For instance, several courses might be incorporated into the Sociology Department's minor in Markets, Management and the Economy, such as "Gender, Work and Organizations," "Media Sociology" and "Danish Society: Social Perspectives." Other courses fit well with Sociology's minor in Social Inequalities, including "Sociology of Human Rights," "Conflict and Peacemaking," "Danish Culture" and "Comparative Studies in Welfare States." Of course, there are many other courses applicable to other social sciences too that are not available at Dartmouth, such as "Economics of the European Union," "Politics and Fear: Terrorism," "Corporate Governance" and more. (A partial list of courses offered in Copenhagen and approved in the past for transfer credit at Dartmouth is available via Courses, Credits, and Grades.) The Program Dartmouth students go to Copenhagen only during the fall term. They select from a variety of courses in the social sciences. Students will be expected to take the normal course load of a full-time student. Because the University of Copenhagen is on a semester system, Dartmouth students will take three or four courses, depending on the number of credits granted per course at Copenhagen. Students choose social science courses from the University of Copenhagen’s course offerings that are taught in English. These are courses in sociology, anthropology, political science, psychology, and economics. This is an exchange program—not an FSP or LSA—and is best suited for students who are looking for a truly independent experience. That is, the exchange is for students who want to be immersed in the local culture and with the local people rather than segregated largely with fellow Dartmouth travelers. No Dartmouth faculty will accompany students on the exchange. Hence, when problems arise students will have to solve them as best they can on their own. Of course, the University of Copenhagen, primarily through its International Office, will assist students in any way it can, but it is a large bureaucratic university and does not have the sorts of support for students, that Dartmouth has, such as through the Dartmouth Dean of Student’s Office. Moreover, students participating on the exchange should not expect the amenities that they have at Dartmouth (i.e., high-speed internet in dorms and class rooms, wireless computing, free long-distance telephone, easily accessible and inexpensive/free photocopying, free access to gymnasium facilities, open stacks in the libraries, university cafeterias and dining halls, etc.). The Danish university system is different from Dartmouth’s. Nevertheless, the opportunity to live and study in a country like Denmark is extraordinary. Language Most Danes speak English fluently. For this reason and because the program’s courses are taught in English, Dartmouth students will not require language training in Danish. Indeed, Copenhagen is a very easy city to manage for English speaking travelers. Academic Calendar The University of Copenhagen is on a semester system, which starts the very end of August or very early September (depending on the calendar) and runs through mid-January. Classes are generally finished by mid-December with final exams in late December or early January. Dartmouth students make arrangements early in the term with their Danish professors to take final exams (or an appropriate substitute). Often courses require a major term paper (20-25 pages) rather than a final exam, so the possibility for scheduling conflicts between Copenhagen and Dartmouth is minimized. Despite the fact that students may arrange to take exams before January, they are still required to attend classes at the University of Copenhagen until classes are finished in December. Early exams do not justify missing the last week or two of classes! If classes are finished around December 17-18 and your exams follow within the next few days you should not plan on leaving Copenhagen until about December 21-22. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback