Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Menu Request Info Apply Now Give News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Columbia University’s School of Social Work is a top ranked school and the first social work school established in the U.S. Since 1898, Columbia faculty and alumni have played a leading role in advancing the field of social work through scholarly and professional contributions. What began as an intervention in the conditions of urban industrial life at the end of the 19th century has evolved into a global field that impacts nearly every area of social and political life. Our students graduate prepared to face 21st-century challenges. Request Info Apply Give Quick Links MSW Program Learn more about the MSW program, on-campus and online, and the many options for specializing your social work education. Ph.D. Program Ready to take your social work education further? Learn more about our doctoral program. Continuing Education Stay up to date on the latest trends and techniques in the profession with CSSW’s Continuing Ed. programs. Current Students Stay up to date on each semester’s requirements, classes, and events. Admitted Students Learn which steps to take to transition from admit to current student. Alumni Join our global network of illustrious alumni. News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research... Columbia University’s School of Social Work, one of the world’s leading research universities, and Committee of 100, a non-profit membership... Read more Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give... The Columbia School of Social Work is excited to announce that Wanda Holland Greene will be the keynote speaker at... Read more Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come “I’m half a century.” Kathy laughs. Even through a staticky computer screen, Yesenia Marsala, who goes by Kathy, radiates pride... Read more Upcoming Events The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture: Translating Behavioral HIV Interventions... 09 Jun, 2022 View Event Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy 10 Jun, 2022 View Event Practice-Focused Training in Prolonged Grief Disorder Therapy 17 Jun, 2022 View Event Social Feed CSSW on Twitter RT @Committee100: NEWS: @ColumbiaSSW @Columbia @china_columbia and @Committee100 to commence joint research on the economic and sociopoliti… View tweet CSSW on YouTube Renowned criminal justice experts will present “Fixing New York City's Jails: A Federal Receiver?”, a virtual forum to discuss ... Watch video CSSW on Instagram The Offices of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and Student Life are partnering to celebrate LGBTQ+ Pride with the #CSSW community!... See post About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT