Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share Lower Division Lower Division 20. Sex, Death and Migration 21. Introduction to Political Sociology 22. The Sociology of International Development 23. Social Movements 24. The Imapct of Poverty on Education 25. Democratization in Developing Countries 26. Capitalism, Prosperity and Crisis 27. Organizations in Society 28. Health Care and Health Care Policy 29. The Sociology of Work 30. Deviance and Social Control 31. Youth and Society 32. The Social Meanings of Home 33. Self and Society 34. Health Disparities 35. Sociology of Mental Health 36. Sociology of Family 38. Status and Power in Social Interaction 42. Racism in Asian America 43. Crossing Over: Latino Roots and Transitions 44. Complexities of Latino Identities in the United States 45. Inequality and Social Justice 46. Constructing Black Womanhood 47. Race and Ethnicity in the U.S. 48. Immigration, Race and Ethnicity 49. Special Topics Courses For the most up-to-date listing of when each course will be offered, please see the Courses by Term section 20. Sex, Death and Migration (course syllabus) The world's population will more than double from 7 to 16 billion people by 2100. What are the implications of this for public policy, population health and aging, fertility and reproduction, immigration, and social inequality? This course answers these questions and more. It will introduce students to the study of social demography and population studies, with a focus on understanding how population processes influence and shape social problems. Students will learn how to use the basic demographic tools used to study population processes, as well as the important debates surrounding the causes and implications of such changes. Dist: SOC. Sharp. back to top 21. Introduction to Political Sociology (course syllabus) Politics exists everywhere, when certain decisions affect two or more human beings. Immediately emerge political questions: who makes the decision, and how? Is it a result of dialogue and negotiations, or unilateral imposition of the most powerful? Who benefits? Who lose? Political Sociology studies processes of decision making and power relations at larger levels of society. In this Introductory course we will study basic questions of political processes, starting with the historical formation of States in Europe during centuries of Wars, their violent expansion overseas by colonialism and settler societies, and the emergence of nationalism and democracy. We will study democratic decision-making processes, theories of power elites, pluralism and class domination. How democratic processes represent classes, ethnic groups and race, and how civil society, social movements and trade unions organize and demand representation, at local and global levels. Finally, we will discuss how globalization impacts democratic processes. Dist: SOC; WCuIt: W. Grinberg. back to top 22. The Sociology of International Development (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with MES 12.07) This course will introduce students to the major sociological perspectives on economic and political development, with emphasis on developing countries. Among the views to be considered are modernization, which assumes that later developing countries will follow paths once traveled by today's advanced countries; and dependency and world system theories, which view the integration of less developed countries into the world market as problematic and, under certain conditions, even disadvantageous. We will test these theories by applying them to specific cases. A major part of the course will focus on the economic miracle of East Asian countries, as well as cases that have not been so successful. Other important topics to be studied include the influence of states, markets, and multinational corporations in economic development; the relationship between different modes of development and income distribution; and political development and the prospects for democratization. Open to all classes. Dist: INT. Parsa. back to top 23. Social Movements (course syllabus) Social movements are collective attempts to promote or resist social change, from the way people live their lives, to how governments govern, to how economic systems distribute rewards. This course examines why and when social movements come about, the organizations and strategies they adopt, and the circumstances in which they are most impactful. We explore these issues by researching individual political movements and engaging larger theoretical explanations for their development. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Dixon. back to top 24. The Impact of Poverty on Education (Course Syllabus) (Cross-listed with EDUC 27) Rising income inequality is undermining the ability of public K-12 schools to meet a foundational goal: to provide children from impoverished areas the opportunity to succeed. This course focuses on the forces that have translated the growing income gap into a growing education gap. We will examine primary research from various fields that details how poverty affects developing children, families, neighborhoods, and schools in ways that go on to affect educational outcomes. We will also consider how interventions strategically targeted at these contexts can improve the educational success of children growing up in poverty. back to top 25. Democratization in Developing Countries (course syllabus) The road to democratization in most countries in recent years has been marked by large-scale social movements. This course will begin with an examination of various theories of democracy and democratization . It will specifically analyze the role of class, culture, ideology, and religion in the democratization process. Finally, we will apply the theories to the three cases of South Korea, Indonesia, and Iran, three countries with mixed successes. Open to all classes. Dist: INT; WCuIt: NW. Parsa. back to top 26. Capitalism, Prosperity and Crisis (course syllabus) Capitalism in the last five centuries generated great wealth and prosperity in Western societies. In the last few decades, capitalism assumed a global character affecting social and economic life of the vast majority of the people in the world. Yet, capitalism has also been plagued by economic decline and failures, causing massive human suffering. This course will study the nature of capitalism, sources of prosperity and crisis, inequality in distribution of economic and political power. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Parsa. back to top 27. Organizations in Society (course syllabus) Much of modern life takes place within a wide variety of complex, formal organizations, from multi-national corporations, to churches, from social service agencies to volunteer organizations. In this course we will learn about the structure, internal processes, and environments of different forms of organization. Our focus is on sociological theories and empirical research, from a macro-sociological perspective. Our objective will be to learn about how organizations work, as well as to gain an understanding of the impact of organizations on society and in our lives. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Harrington. back to top 28. Health Care and Health Care Policy (course syllabus) This course examines the health care system in the United States, focusing on the roles and operations of health care institutions and providers. The objective throughout the course is to develop a comprehensive and critical perspective on current fields and issues in medical sociology. The course consists of five sections, progressing from macro-level to micro-level analyses of the delivery of health care, and returning to the macro-level to discuss recent policy changes and debates in the health care system. Dist SOC; WCult: W. back to top 29. The Sociology of Work (course syllabus) Not currently offered This course examines the sociological dimensions of work, occupations, and employment relations. Specific topics may include: the structure of work, historical and contemporary changes in the organizational context of work, ways in which work both creates and reflects social divisions, occupations and professions, occupational socialization and choice, and the intersection of work and family. back to top 30. Deviance and Social Control (course syllabus) Students of society seem always to have been fascinated with explaining why some members deviate from commonly accepted rules. This course examines the major sociological explanations of deviance. We will explore the identification of certain behaviors as deviant, the process of becoming deviant, the management of a deviant identity, and the development of deviant subcultures. The course concludes with an examination of societal reactions to and the treatment of deviance and deviants. Examples of deviant and social control activities that may be considered include prostitution, religious cults, youth gangs, witchcraft, the handicapped, and asylums. Open to all classes. Dist: SOC; WCuIt: W. King. back to top 31. Youth and Society (course syllabus) This course explores central themes and features of children's preschool, preadolescent, adolescent, and college peer cultures. We will discuss what it means to study youth from a sociological lens and research methods for doing so. This course focuses on the importance of family and peer experiences for youth's social development. Specific topics may include: what it means to be a child or adolescent historically and in contemporary society; how gender, socioeconomic class, race, ethnicity, and sexuality shape youth's experiences; what it means to be "popular"; the role of culture (through toys, games, books, music, television, movies, etc.) in youth's lives. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. McCabe. back to top 32. The Social Meanings of Home (course syllabus) This course is an exploration of the economic, cultural, social and political dynamics of "home" in contemporary U. S. society. The concept, "home" invariably invokes multiple and sometimes conflicting ideas -- a physical dwelling, family, economic property, birthplace, nationality, environment, haven, etc.. We speak of "home sweet home," "dream home," "home is where the heart is," "sweet home Alabama" "homeland," "there's no place like home," and "homies." In the course, we will consider the home as a social context that profoundly shapes our personal and collective identities, gender roles and interpersonal relationships, class status and divisions, racial-ethnic memberships and conflicts, plus values and political ideals. The course will emphasize the homestead as economic property and the implications of its location, design, artifacts and domestic lifestyles for the cultivation of model subjects, consumers or citizens. Theoretical, empirical and interpretative materials in the course may touch on subjects as varied as housing and home ownership, shopping and hyperconsumption, food & kitchen culture, family values and the modeling of marriage and family life, the home improvement industry, and home and self makeovers on reality television. Dist: SOC. WCult: W. King back to top 33. Self and Society (course syllabus Social Psychology is the study of the relationships between the individual and society. It is an interdisciplinary field to which the work of sociologists, psychologists, and occasionally scholars from other disciplines is relevant. This course introduces students to social psychology primarily, although not exclusively, from a sociological perspective. First, the course will acquaint students with the range of theoretical perspectives that have been used to study social psychology. Second, it will familiarize students with empirical research that has been done to examine these theories. Third, it will permit students to explore particular social psychological issues in greater depth both within and across particular perspectives within social psychology. Dist: SOC. Lively. back to top 34. Health Disparities (course syallabus) Social, economic, and political forces powerfully influence who gets sick, the types of diseases that affect them, the treatments that are available, and the outcomes of those treatments. In this course, we will study how discrimination, marriage, and social ties may contribute to gender, racial and ethnic, and socioeconomic health disparities. We will also examine the ways in which neighborhood and community context shape health and access to health care services. Dist: SOC. Walton. back to top 35. Sociology of Mental Health (course syllabus) Poor mental health and mental illness are often viewed as biological flaws. Sociologists, however, argue that mental illness is socially constructed, and that population mental health is profoundly shaped by social conditions. In this course, we will explore sociological understandings of mental health and illness. We will focus on a range of topics, including: the social construction of mental illness, how social inequality contributes to mental health, and how society responds to the mentally ill. Dist: SOC. Houle. back to top 36. Sociology of Family (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with WGSS 33.08) The sociological study of the family involves our ability to take a step back to assess structures that pattern our personal experiences and how the private decisions that happen in families matter to society as a whole. We will examine how private affairs in family life interact with important public issues, particularly discussing intersections with gender, social class, race and ethnicity, marriage and cohabitation, divorce, remarriage and stepfamilies, childhood and adolescence, work, and social policy. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Walton. Students engage in an oral history research project where they investigate their parents' experiences with work/family balance. Click here for some examples of the projects past students have created. back to top 38. Status and Power in Social Interaction (course syllabus) How do our interactions with others cause and result from inequalities in society? This course explores how status and power dynamics shape social life, using theories and research from sociological social psychology. We will learn how status beliefs emerge from social differences in resources and power, and how they perpetuate inequalities over time by shaping our interpretations of events and our behavior and emotions toward others. We will also consider how these inequalities can be overcome. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Rogers. back to top 42. Racism in Asian America (course syllabus) This course first considers the migration histories and racial experiences of Asian American groups in comparison to other groups. By highlighting the contexts of global and transnational migration, this course identifies the many ways in which Asian American groups have been both excluded and differentially included in politics and racial discourse—whether as colonial subjects, exploited labor, transnational immigrants, or diasporic groups. Next, the course considers a variety of contemporary experiences of Asian Americans, as they manifest in the media, food, gender, family, pop culture, transnational adoption, affirmative action, multiracial solidarities and more! Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Walton. back to top 43. Crossing Over: Latino Roots and Transitions (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with ANTH 12.19 and LATS 44) This course focuses on the histories and experiences of Latinx transnational migrants—from Mexico, Central America, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, and Cuba—living in the United States. You will study the historical, political, and economic processes that have led to these migrations, as well as the varying ways in which race/ethnicity, class, gender/sexuality, and citizenship affect Latinx migrant lived experience. Given our focus on "crossing," readings will foreground subjects that capture this theme, from the literal movement of people, to the constant back and forth that shapes Latinx lives, to the adjustments Latinx people make given their language, their proximity to other immigrants and communities of color, and their varying acceptance within the United States. Dist:SOC; WCult:CI. Gomez. back to top 44. Complexities of Latino Identity in the United States (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with LATS 5) The Latino population currently consists of approximately 38 million people in the United States; by the year 2050 the Census estimates that the Latino population will makeup at least 25 percent of the total U.S. population. This diverse group traces its origins to a variety of countries; and, its experience in the United States is quite varied. This seminar will explore issues of race, class, and gender within the Latino community in the United States. It will examine the socio-economic experiences of various Latino groups (Chicanos, Puerto Ricans, Cubans, Dominicans, Central and South Americans), as well as issues of identity, pan-ethnicity, representation of group politics, language, and gender & class conflicts. Dist: SOC, WCult: W. Gomez. back to top 45. Inequality and Social Justice (course syllabus) Social stratification refers to the unequal distribution of socially valued resources such as wealth, prestige, and power, across different groups in society. This course examines sociological research on the extent of these inequalities, how they are generated, and the consequences they bear. With an emphasis on historical and contemporary patterns of inequality in the United States, specific topics may include: wealth and income inequality; poverty; the intersection of class, race/ethnicity, and gender; educational attainment; and social change. Dist: SOC. Dixon. back to top 46. Constructing Black Womanhood (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with AAAS 25 and WGSS 33) This course is a critical examination of the historical and contemporary status of black women in the United States, as presented in fiction, primary accounts, and social science literature. We will explore the nature, extent, and consequences of the multiple discriminations of race, sex, and class, as the context in which these women shaped their social roles and identities within the black community and the larger society. We will consider the themes of family, motherhood, and sexuality; educational, economic and political participation; aesthetics and religious traditions; self and social images. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. King. back to top 47. Race and Ethnicity in the U.S. (course syllabus) (course syllabus - Kim) To many eyes, racial distinctions are self-evident, natural, and objectively-defined. In this course, we problematize this practice of defining racial categories based on phenotypic differences, instead taking a sociological approach to understanding the ways in which racial differences are socially constructed. Throughout this course, we explore the very real consequences of racial distinctions by interpreting the social science literature on inequality, considering the manifestations of interpersonal and institutional forms of racism, and discussing prospects for change in the future. Students will also examine their own racial and ethnic identity and experiences through the lens of a social scientist. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Walton. Kim. back to top 48. Immigration, Race and Ethnicity (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with LATS 40) This course examines twentieth-century immigration to the United States. This course pays special attention to issues of race and ethnicity. The course begins with a brief history of US immigration and then thematically covers specific topics such as economic impacts and costs, social mobility, citizenship, transnationalism, assimilation, and religious issues and their relationship to the immigrant experience. We feature nativist reactions to immigration and highlight differences within and between Latino, Asian, and European groups throughout the course. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Kim. back to top 49. Lower Division Special Topics Courses 49.02 Theories of Democratization and the Case of Iran (Cross-listed with MES 12.08) Theories of democratization generally examine the nature of the state, economy, social structure, class, culture and religion. This course will begin with an examination of various theories of democracy and democratization. It will then apply these theories to the specific case of Iran. Despite two major revolutions and two movements, Iran is still facing problems democratizing. The latter part of the course relies on documentary films that contain actual footages of Iran's nationalist movement in the 1950s and the revolutionary struggles in 1979. back to top 49.09 Critical Political Economy (course syllabus) Political economy was formulated as a central field of research since the 19th century, designed to comprehend both fields - politics and economics - and how they interact, at the local, regional and global level. Since the 2008 financial crisis it became a very popular field of research, highlighting varied and opposed theoretical approaches. The course will focus on critical perspectives to political economy, including a. class conflict, race and ethnic relations and the world system; b. state institutions and their relation to civil society, capital and labor organizations; and c. late developments of the neoliberal economy, the social and economic implications of inequality, and global protests of the 99%.Dist: SOC. Grinberg. back to top 49.12 Israeli Society--Structure, Institutions, Identities and Dynamics (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with JWST 68.01 and AMES 41.08) The goal of this course is to study Israeli society from a sociological perspective. The course analyzes the economic, political and social factors that shaped Israeli society from its inception, its historical transformation at the structural and institutional levels, and in the changing relations among different social groups. This course examines the establishment of the state, absorption of immigrants, ethnicity, messianic politics, Palestinian uprisings, peace process, and redefinitions of nationalism. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Grinberg. back to top 49.13 Science and Religion in American Media (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with FILM 46.3) The public life of science and religion seems to be characterized by intractable conflict. In this course we examine case studies from current controversies over stem cell research, reproductive genetics, environmental policy, human origins, and sexuality. We will explore who is creating and maintaining these public controversies and why. We will examine "science and religion" as a defining confrontation in the development of American democracy, and consider how the American public sphere shapes possibilities for political participation. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Evans. back to top 49.15 Sociology of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with JWST 68.02 and AMES 41.09) The course aims to comprehend Israeli-Palestinian relations from the first moments of Zionist-Palestinian encounter. It presents different approaches to the interpretation of these relations, the beginning of the conflict before the establishment of the Jewish State, and its further developments. The course will enter key debates on military-society relations, Jewish democracy, economic relations, and the failure of the peace process, ending with a discussion of options for the future. Dist: SOC. Grinberg. back to top 49.17 Religion and Political Economy (course syllabus) What is religion's role in the wealth and poverty of nations? Is there really a "Protestant ethic" and a "spirit of capitalism?" Or is human prosperity completely independent of religious belief, institutions, and "spirit"? How do Western and non-Western societies seeking their place in the modern world reconcile religious traditions with the demands of economic globalization? This course will explore a wide gamut of past and present perspectives on this important, controversial subject. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Clark. back to top 49.18 Third World Revolutions This course presents a comparative analysis of the three major revolutions of the latter part of the twentieth century: Iran, Nicaragua, and the Philippines. The course begins with a discussion of major theories of revolutions, including works that focus on class analysis, ideological conflicts, and the state. In the second half of the term, the course explores the revolutions in Iran, Nicaragua, and the Philippines, focusing on the causes of the conflicts, the revolutionary processes, and their alternative outcomes: Islamic fundamentalism in Iran, revolutionary socialism in Nicaragua, and the restoration of liberal democracy in the Philippines. The latter part of the course relies on documentary films that contain actual footages of the revolutionary struggles and their outcomes in the three countries. Dist:SOC;NW;INT. Parsa. back to top 49.19 Sport and Democratization in the Ancient and Modern Worlds (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with CLST 11.04) The relationship between democratization in society and in sports forms the subject matter of this course. We will begin to explore that relationship by looking at the various ways in which democratization in society and in sports influence each other in the modern world. Then we will turn our attention to the past and examine the relationship between democratization in society and in sports in sixth- and fifth-century BCE Greece, in nineteenth-century CE Britain, and in twentieth-century CE America. The course will end with a consideration of the lessons we have learned about democratization in society and in sports for public policy in the United States and elsewhere. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Christesen. back to top 49.21 The Black Church and Black Bodies: Race, Sexuality and Class in Religious Culture (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with AAAS 81.04, WGSS 43.07, REL 74.04) Black churches are challenged to better understand and respond to subjects that are often considered taboo. This course will focus on ideas and approaches that have informed the historic and current Black Church around race, sexuality, and class (and their nexus). Informed by Cultural Theory, it will consider how such churches have endeavored to understand, socialize, and in some instances, control Black bodies as well as some of the broader implications for critically assessing inequality, diversity, and social justice. Barnes. back to top 49.22 Social Justice and the City (course syllabus) (Cross-listed with GEOG 25 and WGSS 37.03) This course explores issues of social justice and cities in terms of the spatial unevenness of money and power within and among cities, between cities and their hinterlands, and between cities of the world. We will examine how multiple dynamic geographic processes produce spatial and social inequalities that make cities the locus of numerous social justice issues. We will also look at how urban communities and social groups are engaged in working for social change. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Gerlofs. back to top 49.24 Human Rights (course syllabus) In 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights called on the world's nations to respect the "inherent dignity and…the equal inalienable rights" of all people. But while the declaration helped globalize human rights, the world continues to experience genocide, torture, slavery, discrimination, and the wide-scale displacement of people. The course seeks to gain a greater appreciation of the complex social forces that impede human rights while also imagining new strategies to address current-day human rights challenges. Students will critically examine human rights case law, develop a non-governmental organization, and participate in a simulation of the United Nations Security Council. Dist: SOC/INT; WCult: W. Salam. back to top 49.25 Jews and Race (course syllabus)(Cross-listed with JWST 13, AAAS 65.05, MES 16.39, COLT 51.05) The question of Jewish difference has been foundational in the formation of both Christendom and Islam. Of course, the question of race, and the racialization of the Jews, is often thought to be modern phenomenon when Race Science became prominent in the nineteenth century. But lately scholars have begun to re-think the category of race in connection with modernity and to reconsider race as a construct that extends back at least into the Middle Ages. Dist: INT, TMV; WCult. E. Rosenblatt. back to top 49.26 Markets and Their Critics (course syllabus)(Cross-listed with GOVT 20.10) The purpose of this course is to explore the nature and implications of the market primarily as a political, but also as a social, economic and even moral phenomenon. From being a marginal, controlled, and secondary social institution in most early societies, markets have risen to become a central mode of social coordination and economic production, distribution and exchange in modern ones throughout the Western and non-Western world. What is the best way of thinking about this transformation in the prominence of the market in human life? Why has it happened, whom has it benefited, whom has it harmed, what functions has it served, what new problems has it created, and what if anything are the limits on the social utility of markets? Dist: INT or SOC. H. Clark. back to top 49.27 Transnational Feminist Sociology (course syllabus)(Cross-listed with WGSS 66.16) These transformative studies examine how global political and economic processes shape and is shaped by racial, gender, and sexual relations and furthermore how the continued exploitation of racialized and gendered bodies around the globe produce/reproduce the international division of (re)productive labor. Departing from top-down models of globalization that are often discussed in other courses, this class will center and honor the voices of women and minoritarian workers on the peripheries of global society to understand to how global capitalistic institutions, particularly, workplaces and government are intimately intertwined on the ground. In doing so, we not only interrogate the racialized, gendered, and social dis(locations) of social actors and subjects under neoliberal economic globalization but also identifying forms of feminist resistance and agency that can shift racial and gender power dynamics across time and space. Dist:SOC;NWC;INT. Choi. back to top Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback