Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Social Media Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Best Practices Policies Social Branding Social Media Directory Humans of OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Best Practices Policies Social Branding Social Media Directory Humans of OSU @OregonState At Oregon State University we view social media as a way to serve the people who have an interest in us. It isn't a place to spam events or brag about how incredible we are. Every day we ask ourselves a fundamental question: how can we bring joy, helpful information or excitement to our followers? Tweets by OregonState Social Media Blog Posts Best practices: Graphics for promoting events on social - Jan 11, 2021 Let’s talk about the best ways to do event promotion on social media. Yes, this means how to create eye-catchy graphics. As we dive deeper into this topic, I’ll break down ideas by each platform. Facebook Here are image specs that you need to keep in mind when promoting your event on Facebook. Facebook Event […] Social Media Video Specs - Jun 29, 2020 A helpful guide of video specs for each social media platform to help everyone create great content. Holidays we cover - May 27, 2020 There are many opportunities to celebrate holidays. We have broken it down to the ones we will cover on the institutional Twitter and Facebook accounts. Awareness and Appreciation Months This list incorporates existing traditions and activities that are hosted by other units and programs. Black History Month Women’s History Month Asian Pacific American Heritage Month […] Diving into Instagram Stories and Going Live - Apr 27, 2020 Let’s talk Instagram Stories: When Instagram rolled out this feature, no one really knew how to use it. But they are getting popular with lots of fun features. They’re a great way boost your Instagram game. We’ve been using it more frequently and have seen great progress. Stories are a great way to grab followers’ […] Contact Info [email protected] OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube OSU's Linked In Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer