Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Student Resources » Student Organizations Student Organizations Helpful Links HornsLink Social Work Council The Social Work Council provides a forum for communication with faculty and staff, and organizes educational, service and social action activities to enhance student involvement and cohesion. Learn More Latinx Students and Scholars Network All social work students with a personal or professional interest in Latinx issues are invited to join for conversation, networking opportunities and mentorship. For more information contact professor Mercedes Hernandez. Black Students Network This network is to provide a space for Black students to come together for solidarity, support and empowerment during their time in the Steve Hicks School. The group is open to all social work students, is facilitated by Black faculty and convenes monthly. Alumni are also welcome. For more information contact professors Stacey Jordan or Starla Simmons. EJET EJET (Environmental, Justice and Ecotherapy Student Organization) seeks to to promote awareness, engagement and action around ecotherapy practices and environmental justice issues. The organization hosts speakers on the topics, facilitate workshops, and attend relevant events in the community. Learn More POCKET People of Color Keeping Everyone Tight (P.O.C.K.E.T.) is a space of support for individuals who identify as people of color within the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Learn More PEP The Philanthropy Education Program (PEP) educates and trains students on development topics such as fundraising, donor cultivation, event planning and stewardship. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved