Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search John L. Campbell Academic Appointments Class of 1925 Professor Emeritus Professor of Sociology Emeritus Connect with Us YouTube John Campbell's research interests span economic and political sociology, comparative political economy, and institutional theory. He has written about energy and tax policy, the evolution of the U.S. economy, transformations of post-communist societies in Eastern Europe, corporate social responsibility, globalization, the role of ideas and experts in policymaking, and the 2008 financial crisis. The thread connecting all of this is his interest in how institutions affect national political economies and how they change. His recent books are The National Origins of Policy Ideas: Knowledge Regimes in the United States, France, Germany and Denmark (Princeton University Press, 2014), which is about how policy research and advising is conducted in different countries; The Paradox of Vulnerability: States, Nationalism and the Financial Crisis (Princeton University Press, 2017), which is about how small countries responded to the 2008 financial crisis; and American Discontent: The Rise of Donald Trump and Decline of the Golden Age (Oxford University Press, 2018). He has just finished the second edition of The World of States (Cambridge University Press, 2021) and What Capitalism Needs: Forgotten Lessons of Great Economists (Cambridge University Press, 2021), which is about the fragility and instability of capitalism today. He is next book is Institutions Under Siege: Donald Trump’s Attack on the Deep State (Cambridge University Press, 2023). + View more View Curriculum Vitae Contact John.L.Campbell@Dartmouth.EDU 603-646-2542 306C Blunt Hall HB 6104 Education Ph.D. University of Wisconsin at Madison (1984) M.A. Michigan State University (1977) B.A. St. Lawrence University (1974) Areas of Expertise Economic, political, and comparative sociology /globalization /comparative political economy /institutional analysis Selected Publications BOOKS: Campbell, John L. 2022 (forthcoming). Institutions Under Siege: Donald Trump's Attack on the Deep State. New York: Cambridge University Press. Campbell, John L. and John A. Hall. 2021. What Capitalism Needs: Forgotten Lessons of Great Economists. New York: Cambridge University Press. Campbell, John L. and John A. Hall. 2021. The World of States, 2nd edition. New York: Cambridge University Press. Campbell, John L. 2018. American Discontent: The Rise of Donald Trump and Decline of the Golden Age. New York: Oxford University Press. Campbell, John L. and John A. Hall. 2017. The Paradox of Vulnerability: States, Nationalism and the Financial Crisis. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Campbell, John L. and Ove K. Pedersen. 2014. The National Origins of Policy Ideas: Knowledge Regimes in the United States, France, Germany and Denmark. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Morgan, Glenn, John L. Campbell, Colin Crouch, Ove K. Pedersen, and Richard Whitley, editors. 2010. Oxford Handbook of Comparative Institutional Analysis. New York: Oxford University Press. Campbell, John L., John A. Hall, Ove K. Pedersen, editors. 2006. National Identity and the Varieties of Capitalism: The Danish Experience. Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press. Campbell, John L. 2004. Institutional Change and Globalization. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Campbell, John L. and Ove K. Pedersen, editors. 2001. The Rise of Neoliberalism and Institutional Analysis. Princeton: Princeton University Press. ARTICLES AND CHAPTERS: Campbell, John L. 2021. “Nationalism, Populism and Labor Market Reform Today.” Comparative Labor Law and Policy Journal 42(1)1-15. Campbell, John L. 2020. “The Evolution of Fiscal and Monetary Policy.” Pp. 787-811 in The New Handbook of Political Sociology, edited by Thomas Janoski, Cedric de Leon, Joya Misra and Isaac Martin. New York: Cambridge University Press. Campbell, John L. 2019. “Is America Breaking Apart...Now?” Pp. 31-54 in States and Nations, Power and Civility: Hallsian Perspectives, edited by Francesco Duina. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. Campbell, John L. 2019. “Self-Responsibility Gone Bad: Institutions and the 2008 Financial Crisis.” American Behavioral Scientist 63(1)10-26. Campbell, John L. 2018. “Corporate Social Responsibility and the Financial Crisis: Reflections on the 2017 AMR Decade Award.” Academy of Management Review 43(4)546-556. Campbell, John L. 2017. “Institutions, Policy Planning Networks and Who Rules America?” Pp. 86-101 in Studying the Power Elite: Fifty Years of Who Rules America? edited by G. William Domhoff. New York: Routledge. Campbell, John L. and Ove K. Pedersen. 2015. "Policy Ideas, Knowledge Regimes and Comparative Political Economy." Socio-Economic Review 13(4)679-702. Campbell, John L. and John A. Hall. 2015. "Small States, Nationalism and Institutional Capacities: An Explanation of the Difference in Response of Ireland and Denmark to the Financial Crisis." European Journal of Sociology 56(1)143-174. Campbell, John L. and Ove K. Pedersen. 2015. "Making Sense of Economic Uncertainty: Knowledge Regimes in the United States and Denmark." Pp. 22-40 in Sources of National Institutional Competitiveness: Sense Making and Institutional Change, edited by Susana Borras and Leonard Seabrooke. New York: Oxford University Press. Campbell, John L., Charles Quincy, Jordan Osserman and Ove K. Pedersen. 2013. "Coding In-Depth Semi-Structured Interviews: Problems of Unitization and Inter-Coder Reliability and Agreement." Sociological Methods and Research 42(3)294-320. Patsiurko, Natalka, John L. Campbell and John A. Hall. 2013. "Nation-State Size, Ethnic Diversity and Economic Performance in the Advanced Capitalist Countries." New Political Economy 18(6)827-844. Patsiurko, Natalka, John L. Campbell and John A. Hall. 2012. "Measuring Cultural Diversity: Ethnic, Linguistic and Religious Fractionalization in the OECD." Ethnic and Racial Studies 35(2)195-217. Campbell, John L. 2011. "The U.S. Financial Crisis: Lessons for Theories of Institutional Complementarity." Socio-Economic Review 9:211-34. Campbell, John L. and Ove K. Pederson. 2011. "Knowledge Regimes and Comparative Political Economy." Pp 167-90 in Ideas and Politics in Social Science Research, edited by Daniel Béland and Robert Cox. New York: Oxford University Press. Campbell, John L. 2010. "Neoliberalism in Crisis: Regulatory Roots of the U.S. Financial Meltdown." Research in the Sociology of Organizations 30B:65-101. Campbell, John L. 2010. "Institutional Reproduction and Change." Pp. 87-115 in Oxford Handbook of Comparative Institutional Analysis, edited by Glenn Morgan, John L. Campbell, Colin Crouch, Ove K. Pedersen, and Richard Whitley. New York: Oxford University Press. Campbell, John L. and John A. Hall. 2010. "Defending the Gellnerian Premise: Denmark in Historical and Comparative Context." Nations and Nationalism 16(1)89-107. Campbell, John L. 2010. "Neoliberalism's Penal and Debtor States: A Rejoinder to Löic Wacquant." Theoretical Criminology 14(1)59-73. Campbell, John L. and John A. Hall. 2009. "National Identity and the Political Economy of Small States." Review of International Political Economy 16(4)547-572. Campbell, John L. 2009. "What Do Sociologists Bring to International Political Economy?" Pp. 260-73 in Routledge Handbook of International Political Economy, edited by Mark Blyth. London: Routledge. Campbell, John L. 2009. "A Renaissance for Fiscal Sociology?" Pp. 256-65 in The New Fiscal Sociology: Taxation in Comparative and Historical Perspective, edited by Issac Martin, Ajay Mehrotra and Monica Prasad. New York: Cambridge University Press. Campbell, John L. and Ove K. Pedersen. 2007. “The Varieties of Capitalism and Hybrid Success: Denmark in the Global Economy.” Comparative Political Studies 40(3)307-32. Campbell, John L. 2007. “Why Would Corporations Behave in Socially Responsible Ways? An Institutional Theory of Corporate Social Responsibility.” Academy of Management Review 32(3)946-67. Campbell, John L. 2005. “Where Do We Stand? Common Mechanisms in Organizations and Social Movements Research.” Pp. 41-68 in Social Movements and Organization Theory, edited by Gerald F. Davis, Doug McAdam, W. Richard Scott, and Mayer N. Zald. New York: Cambridge University Press. Campbell, John L. 2005. “Fiscal Sociology in an Age of Globalization: Comparing Tax Regimes in Advanced Capitalist Countries.” Pp. 391-418 in The Economic Sociology of Capitalism, edited by Victor Nee and Richard Swedberg. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Campbell, John L. 2003. “States, Politics and Globalization: Why Institutions Still Matter.” Pp. 234-59 in The Nation-State in Question, edited by T.V. Paul, G. John Ikenberry and John A. Hall. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Campbell, John L. 2002. “Ideas, Politics and Public Policy.” Annual Review of Sociology 28:21-38. + View more Works In Progress Institutions Under Siege: Donald Trump's Attack on the Deep State As president, except for the Civil War, Donald Trump’s attack on America’s political institutions was unprecedented in American history. He shredded electoral norms and created the “Big Lie” claiming that the 2020 election was stolen from him. He packed the federal courts with judges and justices he thought would do his bidding. He bullied the Department of Justice to serve his political interests. He tried to politicize the civil service. And by slashing taxes but not spending he added trillions of dollars to the government debt. Most social scientists study how institutions change incrementally. But Trump’s attack was an attempt at radical change. It sheds new light on our understanding of how institutions change, the role that leadership and tipping points play in it, and what the implications are for the United States going forward. Results will appear in Institutions Under Siege: Donald Trump's Attack on the Deep State (Cambridge University Press, 2022). Selected Works & Activities What Capitalism Needs: Forgotten Lessons of Great Economists The stability of capitalism in the postwar era has been slowly destroyed and replaced by the increasingly fragile system of the twenty-first century. Mainstream economists have neglected key underlying social forces that are destabilizing capitalism today. These are the forces of classes, nations and states. This neglect stems, ironically, from contemporary economists overlooking important sociological and political lessons of some of their greatest predecessors, including Adam Smith, Friedrich List, Joseph Schumpeter, John Maynard Keynes, Karl Polanyi, and Albert Hirschman. The project explores these economists' arguments about caplitalist instability, how their insights help explan capitalism's instability today, and what this means for capitalism's prospects in the future. Results appear in What Capitalism Needs: Forgotten Lessons of Great Economists (Cambridge University Press, 2021). The World of States, second edition We live in a world of nation-states. We cannot understand this world without appreciating the institutional character of different types of states and the nature of the interactions among them. States are not disappearing due to globalization but they are changing as are their relationships with each other. This book is a revised and updated version of the first edition, published in 2015. A lot has happened in the world since then, including China's continued growth as an economic powerhouse, the election of Donald Trump, Brexit, trade wars, a resurgence in nationalism and populism in many countries and the corona virus pandemic. This second edition takes all of this into account to better understand the world of states. This new and updated analysis appears in The World of States (Cambridge University Press, 2021). American Discontent: The Rise of Donald Trump and Decline of the Golden Age How did someone with no political experience and who never ran for public office suddenly become President of the United States? This project answers that question. Donald Trump's rise to power was just the tip of a deep political-economic iceberg involving slowly developing trends since the 1970s in the economy, race relations, ideology and politics that reached a tipping point, and that was suddenly pushed over the edge by the 2008 financial crisis, Barack Obama's election as President, and his moves to manage the crisis and reform the health care system. The project also examines how this compares to populist resurgence in Europe, and how it will change the face of American politics and U.S. hegemony in the future. Results appear in American Discontent: The Rise of Donald Trump and Decline of the Golden Age (Oxford University Press, 2018). What Capitalism Needs: Forgotten Lessons of Great Economists (Cambridge University Press, 2021) The World of States, 2nd edition (Cambridge University Press, 2021) American Discontent: The Rise of Donald Trump and Decline of the Golden Age (Oxford Universisty Press, 2018) The Paradox of Vulnerabiity (Princeton University Press, 2017) The National Origins of Policy Ideas: Knowledge Regimes in the United States, France, Germany, and Denmark (Princeton University Press, 2014). The Oxford Handbook of Comparative Institutional Analysis (Oxford University Press, 2010) National Identity and the Varieties of Capitalism: The Danish Experience (McGill Universisty Press, 2006) Institutional Change and Globalization (Princeton University Press, 2004) The Rise of Neoliberalism and Institutional Analysis (Princeton University Press, 2001) Governance of the American Economy (Cambridge University Press, 1991) PreviousNext PreviousNext Courses SOCY 1: Introduction to Sociology SOCY 53: Power, Politics and the State SOCY 66: Markets and Management SOCY 67: The Political Power of Ideas SOCY 69: The Sociology of Globalization + View more Related Links Google Scholar Research Gate Amazon Author Page Scholars Strategy Network (SSN) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback