Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Events > General Public > The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture: Translating Behavioral HIV Interventions from the US to Kazakhstan Search for: The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture: Translating Behavioral HIV Interventions from the US to Kazakhstan June 9 9:00 am - 10:30 am Event Organizer Alumni Relations Email: sswalumni@columbia.edu + Google Calendar Register Here ONLINE ONLY (VIA ZOOM) | FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC | REGISTRATION REQUIRED with Assel Terlikbayeva, MD, MSW ’03 Dr. Assel Terlikbayeva (bio) is the Regional Director of the Global Health Research Center of Central Asia (GHRCCA). Established by Columbia University in 2007 in Almaty, Kazakhstan, GHRCCA works to advance evidence-based solutions to health and social issues in Central Asia through research, education, training, policy and dissemination. In this lecture, Dr. Terlikbayeva will describe the history and current state of GHRCCA, provide examples of studies conducted by GHRCCA, and discuss implications for global health and lessons learned from field implementation. About the Musher Lecture The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture was instituted in 2019 as part of the Willma and Albert Musher Program. Albert Musher made a transformational gift to the school in 1995 when he endowed the Wilma and Albert Musher chair, currently held by Dr. Nabila El-Bassel, who is also a University Professor at Columbia. The inaugural Musher chair was Dr. Edward Mullen, who served in this role from 1995 until his retirement in 2010, and now continues as the Musher Professor Emeritus. The Program also supports a doctoral scholarship, and it provided the funding for the School’s computer lab, known as the Musher Lab. Read more here. Questions? Please contact sswalumni@columbia.edu. Back to Events About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT