Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Current Students > CSSW Graduation Ceremony Search for: CSSW Graduation Ceremony Congratulations, Class of 2020 and 2021! We are excited to celebrate all that you have accomplished during your time at the School of Social Work! The Columbia School of Social Work Graduation Ceremony will take place on Thursday, May 19, 2022 at 11:30 a.m. in Levien Gym. The Columbia-Wide Celebration will take place earlier that day at 9:00 a.m. on Morningside Campus Share your graduation experience on Twitter! Use the hashtags #CSSWGrad2020 and #CSSWGrad2021 and your tweet may appear at graduation. Access the livestream of the 2022 and 2020-2021 University-Wide Commencements here. Contents Quick Links CSSW Affinity Graduations Quick Links Columbia Commencement The University-wide commencement will take place in-person on Wednesday, May 18 at 10:30 a.m. CSSW Graduation Information More information on schedule, guest attendance, ticketing and vaccination information for the 2022 and 2020-2021 CSSW Graduations. CSSW 2022 Commencement Speaker CSSW’s 2022 commencement speaker will be Wanda Holland Greene, Vice Chair, The Trustees of Columbia University and Head of School at The Hamlin School in San Francisco. CSSW 2020 & 2021 Commencement Speaker The Commencement Speaker for CSSW’s celebration of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 will be Tiffany Younger, a CSSW Faculty member and Liberation Health Fellow and Scientist at the Insight Center. Caps and Gowns Students who still wish to purchase regalia can order online directly through Oakhall through May 1. Regalia will be directly shipped to students. Meet our 2022 Student Speakers Yong Gun (YG) Lee, Doctoral Graduates Yong Gun (YG) Lee is a PhD candidate studying contemporary approaches to health promotion among sexual and gender diverse people in global settings. While at CSSW, YG worked under the mentorship of Professor Elwin Wu as well as in collaboration with colleagues at the Social Intervention Group and the Global Health Research Center of Central Asia, conducting HIV prevention intervention research with sexual and gender diverse people in Kazakhstan. After CSSW, YG will continue research and training as the Postdoctoral Associate in Intersectionality & Sexual and Gender Minority Health at the Rutgers University School of Social Work. Ashley Cole, Jr., Master’s Graduates Ashley Cole, Jr., who’s better known as Ash, is a native of Far Rockaway, Queens, a graduate of Queens College, and now a graduate of Columbia University School of Social Work. Next fall, Ash will return as a first-year doctoral candidate at Columbia University School of Social Work. Ash is the Vice-President of the Association of Black Social Workers at Columbia University, a Student Advisor for the Action Lab, a Research Assistant at the SafeLab, a Beyond the Bars Fellow Alumni, and the Lead Facilitator for Umoja Circles. He’s also a Co-Editor of the book entitled Unwritten: Stories from Behind and Beyond the Bars. He has moderated and co-moderated countless events throughout his tenure at CSSW. As a first-generation graduate student, he shares in many of the lived experiences of the people he serves. He’s an advocate for criminal justice reform, fathers who the child support enforcement unit has negatively impacted, and the mental health of young Black boys in academia. When he’s not working to break the bondage of systematic oppression, you can find him spending time with his family. Meet our 2020-2021 Student Speakers Shabieko Ivy, Class of 2020 Speaker Shabieko Ivy is a 2020 graduate of Columbia University School of Work. She was born in Kingston, Jamaica, and raised in Brooklyn, New York. Since graduating, her work strives to help individuals become the best versions of themselves through advocacy. It is a mission that aligns with her own educational pathway to social work- to serve the needs of our most vulnerable members. Her experiences has allowed her to gain an understanding and appreciation of the world, and ways in which she can become an agent for change, both for her local and international community. She is devoted to the common good and whose journey from Jamaica to the United States teaches us all about the power of a single life with purpose. She understands from the experiences of her family and people served that it is important to give back, lend a hand and be there for those in need. This, she feels is essential for there to be real change in our world. She feels this is not only a responsibility but a civic duty. Monika Soto, Class of 2021 Speaker Monika Soto is a New Jersey native and Class of 2021 graduate of the Columbia School of Social Work. Professionally, she currently works as the Justice Ambassador Program Manager at Prison Fellowship, the nation’s largest Christian non-profit and leading advocate for criminal justice reform. Through her work, she equips Justice Ambassadors to change culture and law by advocating for justice that restores. She previously worked as the Grassroots Advocacy Manager for March of Dimes. During her time at CSSW she concentrated in Policy Practice and served as a fellow for the Congressional Research Institute for Social Work and Policy. She has always had a genuine passion for unleashing the power of Social Workers within the political system at all levels of government. Monika was the recipient of the 2021 Benjamin and Agnes Louard Fellowship as a result of her academic achievements and notable leadership. Prior to attending Columbia, she obtained her BA in Social Work with honors from Seton Hall University and landed internships with NJ Assemblyman Gary Schaer as well as the Center for Court Innovation where she focused primarily on criminal justice reform. She has an innate desire to serve marginalized communities, especially immigrants and communities of color. Monika has a particular interest in the intersectionality between social justice and public policy, and enjoys educating those around her on the importance of exercising their civil rights. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT