Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Faculty & Staff Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Faculty & Staff Resources The Steve Hicks School of Social Work is committed to build a diverse team of high caliber faculty and staff to carry the mission of providing national leadership to promote social and economic justice, alleviating critical social problems and enhancing human well-being. Academic Affairs Course management Academic calendar, class schedule, curriculum assessment, course descriptions and syllabi, book orders, counseling and other supports for students, university policies relevant to teaching. Learn More Faculty affairs Promotion and tenure, reviews, research and professional development support, relevant policies regarding course release, outside employment, leave and more. Learn More Open faculty positions See opportunities for joining the Steve Hicks School faculty. Learn More General resources IT Support IT support is provided by LAITS. Call 1-5000 for faster resolution, they can solve most computer issues over the phone with remote access. Email laits-help@utexas.edu for issues that don’t require urgent resolution. Learn More Room schedule Check availability and reserve classrooms, conference rooms and the Utopia Theater. Learn More Business affairs and forms Information and forms related to expenses for official occasions, co-sponsorships, purchasing, Pro-Card, sponsored travel, reimbursements and more. Learn More Human resources University and school resources and policies for teaching and non-teaching employees. Learn More Communication resources Be featured on the School of Social Work’s media platform or get in touch with the team Learn More Brand guidelines School logos, Powerpoint templates, branded Zoom backgrounds, electronic letterhead and UT Austin color palette. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved