Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Research & Impact Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) How we do it Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Resources Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Difficult Conversation Resources On this page you will find our recommendations of books, research articles, editorials, websites, movies, podcasts, and other media that we use in our research and work with Difficult Conversations. Books: Backman, J. (2012). Why Can't We Talk?: Christian Wisdom on Dialogue as a Habit of the Heart. SkyLight Paths Publishing. "Examine the obstacles that keep you from dialogue: black-and-white thinking, a “distraction lifestyle,” the fear of change and negative impressions from others. Explore the strength of character from which healthy dialogue springs—and the work of the soul that cultivates them. Learn practical guidelines for dialogue and how they work in an imperfect world. Encounter anecdotes of dialogue in action, from resolutions of interpersonal conflict to difficult dialogues on some of the most divisive issues of our age. Use provocative questions at the end of each chapter to stimulate group discussion and individual reflection." Furr, G. (1998). The Dialogue of Worship: Creating Space for Revelation and Response. Smyth & Helwys Publishing. "While exploring the nature and content of worship as a dialogue between God and the worshiping community and within the community, the authors of The Dialogue of Worship also discuss the role of music, planning, and a variety of settings for worship. This interdisciplinary approach is appropriate for anyone involved in planning, leading, or studying worship." Patterson, K., Grenny, J., McMillan, R., Switzler, A., & Maxfield, D. G. (2012). Crucial conversations: Tools for talking when stakes are high. McGraw-Hill. Crucial Conversations gives you the tools you need to step up to life's most difficult and important conversations, say what's on your mind, and achieve the positive resolutions you want. You'll learn how to: Prepare for high-impact situations with a six-minute mastery technique. Schade, L. (2018). Preaching in the Purple Zone: Ministry in the Red-Blue Divide. Rowman & Littlefield. "A resource for helping the church understand the challenges facing parish pastors, while encouraging and equipping preachers to address the vital justice issues of our time. This book provides practical instruction for navigating the hazards of prophetic preaching with tested strategies and prudent tactics grounded in biblical and theological foundations. Key to this endeavor is using a method of civil discourse called “deliberative dialogue” for finding common values among politically diverse parishioners. Unique to this book is instruction on using the sermon-dialogue-sermon process developed by the author that expands the pastor’s level of engagement on justice issues with parishioners beyond the single sermon. This book equips clergy to help their congregations respectfully engage in deliberation about “hot topics,” find the values that bind them together, and respond faithfully to God’s Word." Stone, D., Patton, B., Heen, S., & Fisher, R. (2010). Difficult conversations: How to discuss what matters most. Penguin Books. Based on fifteen years of research at the Harvard Negotiation Project, Difficult Conversations walks you through a step-by-step proven approach to having your toughest conversations with less stress and more success. You will learn how to start the conversation without defensiveness, why what is not said is as important as what is, ways of keeping and regaining your balance in the face of attacks and accusations, how to decipher the underlying structure of every difficult conversation. Filled with examples from everyday life, Difficult Conversations will help you on your job, at home, or out of the world. It is a book you will turn to again and again for advice, practical skills, and reassurance. Research Articles and Editorials: A Different Way of Talking by Rev. R. Gregg Kaufman "How do Christians bring the Gospel into a world divided? What resources exist for congregations to talk together about tough social issues? Kaufman outlines the process of deliberative dialogue and how it can be used to help people find common ground and to move them from dialogue toward action." Applying the Dialogical Lens to the Parable of the Rich Fool by Leah D. Schade Owning Stuff or Stuff Owning Us?: The Rich Fool in Luke Chapter 12 by Leah D. Schade Preaching Across the Political Red-Blue Divide: Using the Sermon-Dialogue-Sermon Method in the Purple Zone by Rev. Dr. Leah D. Schade "What theological underpinnings do we have to help pastors to think about preaching on social issues? And how can they do so effectively? Drawn from a nationwide survey and multiple case studies, Schade takes readers through her sermon-dialogue-sermon model to demonstrate an effective way for constructive conversations to occur." Websites and Other Resources: A Call for Goal-Driven Deliberative Practice Baylor Public Deliberation Deliberative Liturgies Make Me an Instrument of Peace: A Guide to Civil Discourse (for Individuals) Make Me an Instrument of Peace: A Guide to Civil Discourse (for Groups) Public Deliberation Issue Guides for Churches Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Research & Impact Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) How we do it Resources Difficult Conversation Resources About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678