Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > News > Faculty News > Robert Fullilove of Mailman School Joins the Social Work Faculty Search for: Robert Fullilove of Mailman School Joins the Social Work Faculty November 1, 2021 @ 7:44 pm Dr. Robert Fullilove, a longtime faculty member at the Mailman School of Public Health, has joined the Columbia School of Social Work. Dean Melissa Begg shared the news in this announcement: Dear CSSW Colleagues, It is with great pleasure that I share the news that Dr. Robert Fullilove has joined our faculty with an interdisciplinary appointment between the Mailman School of Public Health and CSSW. Dr. Fullilove was recruited in 1990 to join the faculty at the Mailman School, where he also serves as Associate Dean for Community and Minority Affairs. He received his BA from Colgate University, MS from Syracuse University, and EdD from Teachers College. Dr. Fullilove has devoted much of his career to issues concerning the health of marginalized groups. He has authored numerous articles on the health of underserved populations, has served on leadership committees and panels for the CDC, NIH, and National Academy of Sciences, addressing such topics as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and substance abuse and addiction. Since 2010, he has been an instructor of public health courses in six New York State prisons that are part of the Bard College Prison Initiative, serving as the Senior Advisor to its public health program. In recognition of his outstanding teaching, he was awarded the Mailman School’s Distinguished Teaching Award in 1995, 2001, and 2013. In 2002, he received an honorary doctorate from Bank Street College of Education. At CSSW, Dr. Fullilove will collaborate with our faculty in our work on critical areas such as racial justice, criminal justice reform, and health equity. He has long collaborated with Dr. Kathy Boudin in the CSSW Center for Justice on the issues of mass incarceration and re-entry programs. In addition, he is Co-PI with Dr. Amy Kapadia on a new project, Trust-building through truth-telling, that received a pilot award from the Irving Institute earlier this year. This project addresses mistrust between historically oppressed communities of color and neighboring institutions of care in Harlem, to enhance community-driven COVID-19 recovery efforts and reduce health disparities. I’ve had the honor of working on various projects with Dr. Fullilove for decades. He is a wonderful colleague and I hope you will join me in extending a warm welcome to CSSW! Best, Melissa Dr. Bob Fullilove on his appointment: The Columbia School of Social Work and I go back to the 1990s, when I began my career as a member of the faculty of what is now the Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Then as now, I was attracted to its commitment to work in the Harlem community around challenges such as HIV/AIDS. As a new member of the CSSW faculty with an interdisciplinary appointment, I look forward to continuing that work and to strengthening our ties with the vibrant communities of color that are so central to this city. Upcoming Events See more The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture: Translating Behavioral HIV Interventions from the US to Kazakhstan June 9, 2022 Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy June 10, 2022 Practice-Focused Training in Prolonged Grief Disorder Therapy June 17, 2022 Tweets by ColumbiaSSW Follow on Instagram Other News See more Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Meet 15 ‘Lions of Social Justice’ From the Class of 2022 April 28, 2022 Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Δ About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT