Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » About Us » Office of Equity and Inclusion Office of Equity and Inclusion Helpful Links Why the Steve Hicks School DDCE The Office of the Associate Dean for Equity and Inclusion fosters a diverse and inclusive environment founded on mutual respect, an appreciation of differences, and the dismantling of systems of privilege and oppression. In working towards equity and inclusion, we recognize that: Institutional policies and practices reinforce differential outcomes for historically underrepresented faculty, staff, students, and communities. The advancement of our social work mission calls for the presence of diversity in all its forms and specifically from underrepresented groups. We intentionally and steadfastly commit to anti-racism and anti-oppression in our practice, scholarship, teaching, and service. OUR COMMITMENT We stand for social justice for individuals and communities facing oppression on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, class, religion, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, and/or (dis)ability. We reject all forms of hate, marginalization, discrimination, and violence. WHO WE ARE Professor Esther Calzada, Ph.D., is the inaugural Associate Dean of Equity and Inclusion for the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Calzada works closely with the Committee for Diversity and Inclusion, which is a group of faculty, staff and student representatives who help shape priorities and carry out programs. Please join us in our efforts We welcome your ideas, your participation and your feedback. Please contact Nicholette Maraccini, nicholette.maraccini@austin.utexas.edu or Esther Calzada, Esther.Calzada@austin.utexas.edu Esther Calzada Ph.D. CURRENT LANDSCAPE We have launched several strategic initiatives, including faculty and staff trainings on institutional racism; enhancement of our curriculum with more in-depth exploration of Critical Race Theory; more comprehensive mentorship for junior scholars, including postdoctoral fellows and assistant professors; and more comprehensive supports for students from underrepresented groups to boost recruitment and retention in our undergraduate and graduate programs. VISION FORWARD In our ongoing efforts, we will continue to work towards equity and inclusion, with an emphasis on the following goals. Provide meaningful and ongoing equity and inclusion trainings for faculty and staff. Provide opportunities for enriching equity and inclusion in (and out of) the classroom Provide comprehensive mentorship to ensure equity for faculty, staff and students. Apply metrics for measuring the effectiveness of our initiatives. Ensure alignment of our initiatives with existing school policies and practices. RESOURCES Newsletters Keep up-to-date with what we are doing through our newsletter, It’s Time, launched in September 2020. We also support a-loud, an anti-racist, anti-colonial student-run newsletter that shares work by BIPOC voices within the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Access the Newsletter Archive Allies and Accomplices The Allies and Accomplices initiative givees our community members the opportunity to identify faculty and staff who pledge to use their power and privilege to confront and interrupt oppression. This initiative serves to 1) Support students who are marginalized through authentic and trusting relationships with an ally or accomplice; 2) Support students with privilege in becoming effective allies by working with an ally or accomplice; 3) Grow the presence of allies and accomplices within our school community. Allies and Accomplices Directory Resource Library The Office of the Associate Dean for Equity and Inclusion has curated a list of resources for the Steve Hicks School community. These resources represent a sampling of those available for social workers who are learning about, confronting and combatting oppression and are not meant to be exhaustive. We encourage you to explore this library as a starting point to fulfilling your commitment to social justice. Access the Resource Library Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved