Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Research & Impact Ongoing research and projects Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Social Work Initiatives The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Ongoing research and projects Topics of the school's research activities have been organized into the following eight research clusters, and under each one, you'll find just a few examples of faculty and student activities within those clusters. For the most up-to-date list of publications and activities, please click on the link at left called Research Activities. That will take you to our Academic Analytics and Faculty Expertise Database. Community and Organization Practice Many social workers are in practice contexts in congregations, medical services in denominational agencies, child welfare services, community service and development organizations, and national and international missions. Research includes knowledge, values, and skills needed for working with voluntary associations and mission-driven institutions. Dr. Boddie: Aquaponics Project at Waco ISD Dr. Lemmons: Black Female Fatherhood Scholars (BFFs) Network Dr. Parrish: Professor awarded $3.1M NIH grant exploring interventions with young women in the juvenile justice system Dr. Boddie: Education from a Gardener’s Perspective Faith and Practice Faith and Practice research ethically integrates knowledge about faith, spirituality, and religion as a part of preparation for professional social work practice. Our goal is to build on the strengths of persons, families, and communities in order to develop and enhance healthy relationships of persons with their families, groups, communities, the larger world, and God. PhD Student Jennifer Hollenberger: Religious Support Moderates the Long Reach of Adverse Childhood Events on Physical Health in Middle to Late Adulthood Drs. Harris & Yancey: The Why and How of Congregational Discernment in LGBTQ+ Inclusion: Models in the Literature Drs. Harris & Yancey, Mallory Herridge & Carolyn Cole: Addressing LGBTQ+ Inclusion: Challenges, Faith, and Resilience in the Church and her People Dr. Yancey: Pregnancy Options Counseling, Title X, and social work: what does faith have to do with it? Dr. Boddie: Social distance impact on church gatherings: Socio-behavioral implications Gerontology The GSSW works to produce state-of-the-science resources and practical models for the well-being of older persons, their families, residential care environments, congregations, and communities. Gerontology at Baylor focuses on issues of the elderly and their families, drawing together several educational, research and application-based projects focused on improving quality of life for older persons. Drs. Harris & Ellor: Older Adults in the 2020 Coronavirus Pandemic: Reflections on Vulnerability, Grief, and the Vertical Limit Drs. Meyers & Rogers: Nursing facility social work with family behavioral health challenges Drs. McGee & Myers: Caring for a Family Member with Mild Dementia: Perceptions, Connections, and Relational Dynamics with the Sacred Human Rights and Global Practice Human rights and global social work centers on the integration of culturally competent and ethically sound practice. GSSW strives to engage in human rights research and practice throughout the micro, mezzo and macro-level of social work. It is our goal to engage in faith-integrated research that enhances and empowers the rights of all people through a globalized paradigm. Dr. Dickey: Video Lecture: Saviors or Servants?: Listening to Kenyan Experiences of Missionaries and Volunteers Dr. Zhao: Incarceration Trajectories and Mental Health Problems Among Mothers Imprisoned in State and Federal Correctional Facilities: A Nationwide Study Drs. Boddie & Zhao: Establishing a Social Work Model for China's Rural Revitalization Strategy Targeting Ethnic Minorities Mental Health Individuals from any socio-economic background, ethnicity, race, age, or other subsets, can be impacted by mental illness. In addition to serving those with mental illness through advocacy, research and trainings, the GSSW provides education/training for social work students, religiously affiliated organizations, congregations, community programs and non-profit organizations. Dr. Moon: Buffering Effects of Social Support and Parental Monitoring on Suicide Dr. Oxhandler: Client attitudes toward integrating religion and spirituality in mental health treatment PhD Student Cali Werner: The Pre-Performance Ritual: A Recipe for Success or a Path to Burnout? Dr. Zhao: Crack Cocaine Use Among Aging Mexican American Men with Heroin Use Histories: Motivations and Polydrug Use Patterns Dr. Moon: The perfect storm? COVID-19 and Substance Use amongst Social Work Students in the USA Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Multiculturalism We seek to advance the inclusion of social work's ethical responsibility to their clients by increasing awareness around cultural competency and social diversity. We provide opportunities for faculty and students to research and address social work practice pedagogy around these issues that are prevalent among the individuals, families, and communities we serve. Dr. Boddie: Professor awarded grant to support ethnographic research in today’s African American church Dr. Polson: Worshipping across the color lines Dr. Lemmons: Game Changers: A Critical Race Theory Analysis of the Economic, Social, and Political Factors Impacting Black Fatherhood and Family Formation Dr. Polson: Effects of Worshipping in Multi-ethnic Congregations on Whites Dr. Boddie: Racial / Ethnic Socialization and Faith: Essential Ingredients for Achieving Liberation and Empowerment among African American Youth Dr. Lemmons: Exploring the Multiple Determinants of Discipline & Monitoring Among Non-Resident African American Fathers PhD Student Veronica Timbers & Dr. Yancey: A Christian Trans-Affirming Perspective on Changes to the Patient and Affordable Care Act: Theological and Practical Implications for Social Workers of Faith Social Work Education Research in the Social Work Education cluster, based on a Christian worldview, studies how to best prepare social workers for generalist practice and advanced levels of practice in areas such as counseling, advanced case management, administration, research, community development and social ministries. Our focus is on Christian scholarship. Dr. Oxhandler: Integrating Social Workers’ Christian Faith in Social Work: A National Survey Dr. Parrish: Practical Implementation in Social Work Practice A Guide to Engaging in Evidence-Based Practice, 1st Edition Dr. Parrish: Evidence-based practice: A common definition matters Drs. Parrish & Harris and PhD Student Anysley Scheffert: Factors Associated with Social Work Students' Academic Stress During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A National Survey Trauma Response Trauma response research objectives include providing leadership in the preparation of practitioners to work with trauma, crisis, and mental health both domestically and globally, as well as exploring EMDRIA for practice preparation and research in the effectiveness of EMDR. Student specializations are focused on trauma, attachment, and disaster/crisis response. Dr. Harris: What to Write in a Sympathy Card to Offer Meaningful Support Dr. Pooler and Dr. Pooler: The Impact of Assembly Trainings on Awareness of Human Trafficking among Middle School and High School Age Youth The SERVE Project Seeking to Support, Encourage, Respect, Value, and Empower women and girls. Clergy Sexual Abuse research Clergy sexual abuse is about the misuse of power by the perpetrator... Namaste Theory The sacred in me recognizes the sacred in you. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Research & Impact Ongoing research and projects About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678