Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Faculty & Staff Resources » Open Faculty Positions Open Faculty Positions Position announcements are posted on The University of Texas at Austin academic employment portal. To view postings for the Steve Hicks School of Social Work, filter results using “social work” as keyword. We have the following open positions: Dean The University of Texas at Austin seeks applications, nominations, and expressions of interest for the next dean of its Steve Hicks School of Social Work. View Posting Adjunct Assistant Professor The Steve Hicks School of Social Work at The University of Texas at Austin routinely hires adjunct faculty to fill curricular needs on a part-time basis. Although no new positions currently are available, the school maintains a pool of candidates for temporary part-time positions as the need arises. Persons selected teach lower and/or upper division undergraduate courses as well as master’s-level graduate courses in the day and/or evening hours. Appointments are usually made on a semester-by-semester basis. Positions are renewable, contingent on need, funding and performance. Qualifications: Master’s degree in social work or related field; at least two years post-graduate experience is preferred. Application Instructions: Applicants should submit: Cover letter Curriculum vitae/resume Name, address, e-mail, and phone number of three references Prior to any appointment, selected candidates will be asked to submit three confidential letters of recommendation that address the candidate’s effectiveness as a teacher and/or expertise in the subject to be taught. Letters to be addressed to: Sandy Magaña Interim Associate Dean for Academic Affairs Steve Hicks School of Social Work The University of Texas at Austin 1925 San Jacinto Blvd. D3500, Austin, TX 78712 Equal Employment Opportunity Statement The University of Texas at Austin, as an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action. The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or veteran status in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved