Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Faculty & Staff Resources » Course Management Course Management Helpful Links Syllabi Archive UT Academic Calendars Resources Academic calendar and class schedule Access the official university academic calendar and see no-class days. No mandatory class meetings can be held on these days. No member of the faculty has the right to alter the academic calendar without the consent of all those who approved it (Faculty Council, Administration, Board of Regents). See the Office of the Registrar for exam schedules and final exam policies. Steve Hicks School class schedules are prepared by the associate dean for academic affairs in discussion with the dean, program directors committee, the graduate program coordinator and the faculty. Course descriptions and syllabi Go to this UT Box Folder (login required) to find approved course objectives and descriptions grouped by APP, Clinical, Electives, Field, and Foundation. Go to the Syllabi Archive to search current and past syllabi in PDF format. Every semester, all teaching faculty must submit copies of their syllabi to Mia Vinton, mia.vinton@austin.utexas.edu. Curriculum assessment Go to this UT Box folder (login required) to find curriculum assessment rubrics in Excel spreadsheet format for BSW, MSSW Foundation, MSSW Advanced APP, MSSW Advanced Clinical, and MSSW Advanced Capstone. Book orders Order your textbook through the University Coop system (login required). Not sure how to do it? See these instructions. Supports for students Counseling CARE is a program of the UT Counseling and Mental Health Center that places licensed counselors in academic units to help students who have been referred by faculty and staff. The CARE Counselor in the Steve Hicks School of Social Work is Gretchen Rees, LCSW. To refer a student, please complete this CARE Referral form. Disabilities Services for Student with Disabilities determines eligibility and helps implement accommodations for students with disabilities at UT Austin. Contact this office with questions or concerns about working with or accommodating a student with a disability. Title IX The Title IX Office provides support around Title IX regulations and implements best practices for preventing sex discrimination and gender-based violence at the university. You can report incidents of sex discrimination on their website. Campus Climate Response Team The Campus Climate Response Team addresses bias incidents (hateful comments, verbal harassment, hostile classroom environments, etc.) in an effort to advance an inclusive and diverse campus culture. Relevant policies Observance of religious holidays Sections 51.911 of the Texas Education Code states that a student who misses an examination, work assignment, or other project due to the observance of a religious holy day must be given an opportunity to complete the work missed within a reasonable time after the absence, provided that the student has properly notified each instructor. University policy states that the student must notify each instructor at least fourteen days prior to the classes scheduled on dates he or she will be absent to observe a religious holy day. For religious holidays that fall within the first two weeks of the semester, the notice should be given on the first day of the semester. Section 51.925 prohibits the university from discriminating against or penalizing an instructor who is absent from class for the observance of a religious holy day. Proper notice must be given to the department chairman prior to the beginning of class that will be missed due to observance of a religious holy day. The notice must be either personally delivered, acknowledged, and dated by the chairman or sent certified mail, return receipt requested. Consistent with regular university policy, the instructor is responsible for finding a qualified substitute or UT Austin instructor for any such class(es). Office hours As per the Regents’ Rules and Regulations, Section III.12, “Members of the teaching staff are expected to post on their office doors, and publish in any other manner required by the chief administrative official, office hours and conference periods most advantageous to students.” Use of own book as required reading Textbooks written by Steve Hicks School of Social Work faculty may be used as required reading for a course as long as proper approval is granted. An “Authorization to Use Textbooks,” available in the Dean’s Office, must be completed. This form requests information on the monetary return per volume involved. The faculty must vote to approve the use of the textbook (usually a vote is taken at a faculty meeting) and the form must be approved by the dean. This request for approval must be submitted for each year that the book will be used. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved