Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home page Apply Discover Contact Latest News Read all News #SteveHicksGrad: Ana Kearney, MSSW '22 May 27, 2022 #SteveHicksGrad: Ana Kearney, MSSW ’22 Ana Kearney has found her niche—not only through social work, but also through Latin American Studies, thanks to UT Austin’s…Read more #SteveHicksGrad: Reese Brinkley, MSSW '22 May 26, 2022 #SteveHicksGrad: Reese Brinkley, MSSW ’22 Reese Brinkley has always known that he wanted to be in a helping profession, operating in a field that made…Read more #SteveHicksGrad: Kaleigh Emerson, MSSW '22 May 25, 2022 #SteveHicksGrad: Kaleigh Emerson, MSSW ’22 Kaleigh Emerson’s story is a testament to the versatility of a social work degree. Looking to the future, she is…Read more #SteveHicksGrad: Genevieve Garceau, BSW '22 May 23, 2022 #SteveHicksGrad: Genevieve Garceau, BSW ’22 Budding social workers may not realize that the very profession with which they hope to change the world changes them…Read more Why the Steve Hicks School? Ranked among the best ten schools of social work in the nation and located in the vibrant city of Austin, we offer a caring, small-sized community in a top-tier research university. Learn More Upcoming Events Jun 10 Featured Featured 9:00 am - 4:00 pm 11th Annual Leben Play Therapy Symposium View Calendar Our Academic Programs Bachelor of Social Work Master of Science in Social Work PhD in Social Work Post-Doctoral Training More to Explore Research Institutes Directed by social work faculty, these institutes focus on interdisciplinary, scientifically rigorous social and behavioral research. Learn More Field Education Partnering with hundreds of agencies and professional social workers to provide structured, experiential learning opportunities, build capacity in the community, and advance social justice. Learn More DiNitto Career Center The DiNitto Career Center (DCC) is a one-stop shop for career advising serving social work students and alumni. Learn More Office of Professional Development Explore online and in-person continuing education opportunities from our Office of Professional Development. Learn More The Utopian is the Steve Hicks School biannual online and print magazine. Our readers are scholars, alumni, and friends who share a commitment to connection, advocacy and social change. Ready to Join Us? We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Apply Now Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved