Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Faculty & Staff Resources » IT Support and Equipment IT Support and Equipment Helpful Links Campus Computer Store IT remote support IT support is provided by LAITS. Call 512-471-5000 for faster resolution, they can solve most computer issues over the phone with remote access. Email laits-help@utexas.edu for issues that don’t require urgent resolution. IT on-site support: the DOC There is an IT DOC on the first floor of the Steve Hicks School building. DOC hours are Wednesdays 8:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Contact Rogelio Bautista to schedule an appointment. Taking equipment off campus Contact Rogelio Bautistato obtain the Off-Campus Inventory DocuSign form. Complete and submit form. Wait to receive approval to take the piece of equipment off campus. See policy memorandum 6.101 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Inventory The Steve Hicks School follows guidelines outlined in Part 16 of the Handbook of Business Procedures. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved