Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share First Year Seminars We currently offer four first-year seminars in sociology: 20th Century Revolutions, Emotion and Culture, U.S. Social Stratification, and Race and Ethnicity. Each first-year seminar is intended to help students see similarities between reading academic scholarship and producing it. Through class discussion and small group work, students will develop their capacity to think critically, conduct research, and write within the field of sociology. Sociological writing requires students to critically survey the existing literature, develop research questions, discuss methodology and produce results. By the end of the first-year seminar in sociology, students will be able to: effectively analyze the social factors shaping individual experiences; perform critical readings of assigned works; offer compelling oral arguments in class discussion; write in a style consistent with expectations of the discipline of sociology; and, evaluate and revise their own and others’ writing. FS: 20th Century Revolutions FS: Emotion and Culture FS: Race and Ethnicity FS: Sociological Perspectives on Social Stratification and Inequality in the United States: A Century of Continuity and Change FS: Healthcare in the US FS: 20th Century Revolutions (course syllabus) The twentieth century has witnessed tumultuous social and political upheavals, ranging from the rise and demise of the Bolshevik communists to the challenge of Islamic fundamentalism. The examination of these upheavals will form the core of this course. Using a comparative framework, we will analyze critical political developments in Russia, Iran, Nicaragua, and the Philippines. Before their political breakdown, authoritarian states in these countries generated impressive economic growth and development. We will examine the factors that led to the rise of social conflicts and the eventual collapse of these states. We will also analyze the causes of the different outcomes that emerged: Bolsheviks in Russia, Islamic fundamentalism in Iran, revolutionary socialism and its subsequent collapse in Nicaragua, and the restoration of liberal democracy in the Philippines. Finally, we will investigate the position taken by the United States in these revolutionary upheavals. Dist: INT or SOC; WCult: NW. Parsa. back to top FS: Emotion and Culture (course syllabus) In this seminar we will study emotion from a sociological perspective—meaning how the culture and structures within a society shape both our experience and expression of emotion. Substantive topics include emotion norms, emotion management, and emotional socialization. We will also examine how emotions operate at work, in the family, and in social movement organizations. You will be asked to produce three writing assignments (two of which require multiple drafts), participate in two peer review processes, and present your final paper—which may or may not involve original data collection—to the class. Dist: SOC. Lively. back to top FS: Race and Ethnicity: Social Constructions and Social Realities (course syllabus) In this course we start from the premise that racial and ethnic distinctions are a social construction. Students will explore how race matters by interpreting their own identity and experiences through the lens of a social scientist, examining interpersonal and institutional forms of racism and their consequences, and discover prospects for change in the future. Students are required to interpret class readings, perform short critical writing responses, evaluate others' work, facilitate and participate in class discussion, and write one 5-7 page essay, and one 8-10 page research paper. Dist: SOC; WCult: W. Walton. back to top FS: Sociological Perspectives on Social Stratification and Inequality in the United States: A Century of Continuity and Change (course syllabus) When we think about social inequality, it's tempting to view it as the inevitable byproduct of effort, where those at the top are rewarded for their perseverance, and those at the bottom should work harder to "pull themselves up by their bootstraps." In this class, we will interrogate these naïve assumptions, and explore sociological understandings of social stratification and inequality in the context of 20th and 21st century United States. We will focus on a range of topics, including (but not limited to): social mobility, poverty and social welfare policies, stratification by race and gender, the causes and consequences of rising wealth and income inequality, and the changing face of inequality before and after the Great Recession. Dist: SOC. Houle. back to top FS: Healthcare in the US Not currently offered This course examines the health care system in the United States, focusing in particular on how health care institutions and providers are organized to practice medicine and deliver health care. We will begin the course by examining the historical development of medicine, and its relationship to both disease and broader social changes. We will examine the organizational structure of the current health care "system" in the U.S. We will also explore social differences in health and access to health care for various groups in society. Finally we will examine recent policy changes and debates about reforming health care in the U.S. Anthony. back to top Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback