Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Department of Sociology Contact Apply Visit FAQ Search Academics Undergraduate Graduate Courses Research Research Clusters Workshops People Faculty Staff Graduate Students PhD Graduates PhDs On the Market Resources News & Events Upcoming Events Workshops About Contact Us Community Diversity and Inclusion Visit Employment Giving COVID-19 Info Graduate Program Our program combines an emphasis on social theory and research methods and development of each student's own interest. Undergraduate Program Our Sociology undergraduate program provides students with the tools to engage more effectively with the world around them. Acclaimed Scholarship Faculty and students engage in a wide range of research projects and publications, spanning sites in the U.S. and abroad. A Rich Variety of Courses Great courses on poverty, immigration, race, politics, crime, work, gender, culture, and more. Leading Faculty Renowned scholars with a broad array of knowledge, research interests, and methodologies. World Renowned University Harvard University is devoted to developing leaders in many disciplines who make a difference globally. Announcements Harvard Sociology wholeheartedly endorses this powerful statement from our Dean and colleague Lawrence D. Bobo. Black lives matter. Thursday, June 4, 2020 Welcome! The Department of Sociology at Harvard has a rich and varied history. Its faculty are deeply committed to the development of sociological theory in the service of addressing fundamental sociological questions about the empirical world. The Harvard department of the 21st century is characterized by unsurpassed methodological breadth and depth, with faculty and students engaged in a variety of approaches to research including surveys, ethnography, in-depth interviews, big data, social demography, causal inference, and historical archival work. Deep engagement with central social issues in the American landscape such as racial inequality, gender discrimination, violence, and mass incarceration is coupled with expertise in political, economic, and social and cultural issues in other parts of the world such as Latin America, Asia, and Europe. We invite you to explore sociology at Harvard. News and Faculty Research Spotlights Professor Orlando Patterson Receives Honorary Degree from Yale University May 25, 2022 Congratulations to Professor Orlando Patterson who was one of 10 leaders to have received a honorary degree from Yale during their 2022 Commenecement Ceremony. Read more about Professor Orlando Patterson Receives Honorary Degree from Yale University Leah Gose selected as Harvard Radcliffe Institute Dissertation Completion Fellow May 18, 2022 Doctoral Candidate Leah Gose has been selected as a 2022-23 Harvard Radcliffe Institute Dissertation Completion Fellow. The Harvard Radcliffe Institute Fellowship Program, now in its 22nd year, offers scholars and practitioners in the humanities, sciences, social sciences, and arts—as well as writers, journalists, and others—a rare opportunity to pursue their work in a vibrant interdisciplinary community. Read more about the... Read more about Leah Gose selected as Harvard Radcliffe Institute Dissertation Completion Fellow Ya-Wen Lei wins 2021 Gordon White Prize May 9, 2022 Ya-Wen Lei wins 2021 Gordon White Prize for her article, “Publics, Scientists and the State: Mapping the Global Human Genome Editing Controversy” (The China Quarterly No. 246, June 2021, pp. 400–427). This prize is awarded annually for the most original article by a scholar who has not published in the CQ before. It is awarded in memory of Gordon White. Gordon White achieved great distinction for his... Read more about Ya-Wen Lei wins 2021 Gordon White Prize Professor Sandra Susan Smith appointed faculty director of the HKS Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy April 28, 2022 Professor Sandra Susan Smith has been appointed faculty director of Harvard Kennedy School’s Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy.... Read more about Professor Sandra Susan Smith appointed faculty director of the HKS Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Siobhan Greatorex-Voith wins prestigious Star Prize April 26, 2022 Siobhan Greatorex-Voith wins prestigious Star Prize for Sophomore Advising. The Star Family Prizes for Excellence in Advising were established by James A. Star, AB 1983, to recognize and reward individuals who contribute to the College through their exemplary intellectual and personal guidance of undergraduate students. Read more about Siobhan Greatorex-Voith wins prestigious Star Prize Daniel Schneider receives Early Achievement Award from Population Association of America April 13, 2022 Daniel Schneider has received the Early Achievement Award from the Population Association of America (PAA). The award is given... Read more about Daniel Schneider receives Early Achievement Award from Population Association of America Danilo Mandić wins ESS Best Book Award February 25, 2022 Danilo Mandić was awarded the Mirra Komarovsky Book Award by the Eastern Sociological Society for his book, Gangsters and Other Statesmen: Mafias, Separatists, and Torn States in a Globalized World; Princeton University Press, 2021. Read more about Danilo Mandić wins ESS Best Book Award Professor Orlando Patterson, featured in The Gazette, discusses how 80 is the new 60 February 8, 2022 Orlando Patterson is featured in The Gazette's article,... Read more about Professor Orlando Patterson, featured in The Gazette, discusses how 80 is the new 60 Jason Beckfield has been selected to be the inaugural Robert G. Stone Jr. Professor of Sociology February 2, 2022 ... Read more about Jason Beckfield has been selected to be the inaugural Robert G. Stone Jr. Professor of Sociology Kristina Brant received two Best Graduate Student Paper awards. January 6, 2022 ... Read more about Kristina Brant received two Best Graduate Student Paper awards. Lecturer Manja Klemenčič again selected as favorite professor. January 6, 2022 For the fourth year in a row, our longstanding lecturer Manja Klemenčič has been selected as one of the favorite professors of the senior class by the Harvard Yearbook. David Pedulla's new book, Making the Cut, wins award November 19, 2021 ... Read more about David Pedulla's new book, Making the Cut, wins award Dean Bobo Hosts David Pedulla in New Social Science Podcast November 9, 2021 ... Read more about Dean Bobo Hosts David Pedulla in New Social Science Podcast Diversity efforts suffer in times of crisis November 1, 2021 The research of Professor Frank Dobbin and Kwan Woo Kim, sociology Ph.D. candidate, featured in Harvard Gazette, ... Read more about Diversity efforts suffer in times of crisis Rob Sampson's research featured in The Boston Globe and on GBH News October 29, 2021 Where white people go, where Black people go, published online and in the Sunday, October 31, edition of The Boston Globe features ... Read more about Rob Sampson's research featured in The Boston Globe and on GBH News Professor Monk discusses census in The Gazette September 21, 2021 Ellis Monk discusses how 2020 census racial data lacks nuance in Gazette article. Read more about Professor Monk discusses census in The Gazette June 2022 « » S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 William James Hall, Sixth Floor 33 Kirkland Street Cambridge, MA 02138 p. 617-495-3812 f. 617-496-5794 sociology@fas.harvard.edu DEPARTMENT QUICK LINKS Sociology SharePoint Sociology Getting Started for Faculty FAS New Faculty Onboarding Requesting Letters of Recommendation Technology Equipment Reserving Space Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement