Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Research & Impact Social Work Initiatives Global Mission Leadership Initiative GML alumni updates Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative GML scholarship program Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium GML alumni updates Cambodia Sambo Klauth, MSW 2012 Upon Sambo's return to Cambodia, he started a social enterprise for disadvantaged groups, including survivors of trafficking and provided consultation for NGOs there. He is currently a Ph.D. candidate for Evaluation, Measurement, and Research at Western Michigan University. Sovannara Moch, MSW 2012 Upon Sovannara's return to Cambodia, she advised clinical staff at World Hope International. She trained and coached Cambodian counselors and social workers on topics such as social work ethics. In Sovannara's current role as the Director of International Justice Mission in Cambodia, she contributes leadership to the direction of the organization. This includes providing support and guidance to caseworkers and leading an aftercare group for survivors of trafficking in Cambodia. Additionally, she works to build partnerships with the local government, law enforcement, lawyers, social workers, and other key players in the community to come against trafficking in Cambodia. Kenya Brooke Abuya Olonde, MSW 2014 Upon graduation, Brooke Abuya went to work for the Ministry of Child Welfare within the Kenyan Government. He praised Kenya’s efforts in successful child adoption and resettlement efforts of displaced and orphaned children. However, he recently began working with Buckner International, working within their kinship and foster care placement department. Brooke helps facilitate Kenyan families in their efforts to keep Kenyan children and siblings together. Click here to watch Brooke's MSW Research presentation, "Making an Ethical Case for Domestic Adoption in Kenya". Malaysia Joshua Tan, MSW 2012 Joshua is serving on pastoral team at First Baptist Church, Subang Jaya. He is overseeing church social work ministry, including a home for HIV patients, two substance abuse rehabs, community development in an impoverished area of the city, an orphanage, and a soup kitchen. His work includes a collaborative partnership in community restoration between FBC Subang Jaya and Ormoc Lighthouse Christian Ministry at Albuera, West Leyte, Philippines. Soo Han Yeoh, MSW 2012 Soo Han is a member of a working committee assisting with the creation of the Malaysian Diploma in Social Work course. She is on the management committee that oversees the operations and development of Early Steps Care Centre, a center running a day program for children with developmental disabilities. Soo Han has started and facilitated LIGHT, a pilot program for women and leads a special needs ministry that includes children with developmental disabilities and their families in her church. Myanmar Nu Sung, MSW 2012 Nu is employed as a child protection officer and developer for UNICEF in building capacity and systems in implementing case management for Department of Social welfare in Myanmar. She is developing and teaching a social studies program at Tedim Christian College and assisting the launch of a social work certificate. She is also a Coordinator of the Holistic Development Program in the most undeveloped region in Chin State, Myanmar. As of 2015, Chin State is the poorest state in the nation. 73% of the Chin population is officially classified as 'poor' and 58% of the children are measured as being seriously or moderately stunted. In addition to her employment, Nu is developing and establishing a congregational social work position within her local church. Philippines Mary Rose Oximas, MSW 2013 Mary Rose teaches a social work course at University of the City of Manila. She has participated in a national assessment team in response to tropical cyclone Haiyan. Uganda Julian Alum, MSW 2013 Julian Alum is currently working in Uganda on USAID’s Institute of Reproductive Health project. This project aims to create sustainable work and empower gender equity within communities all across the country. Julian facilitates measurements, analysis, and reports of work being done, as well we as capacity building within communities to develop networking. Julian noted the importance of gaining community support in order to achieve true success and progress. Click here to read Julian's story. Alumni Spotlight Julian Alum has many incredible stories of redemption and hope to share, yet when asked if there was one that stuck out to her, it seemed almost impossible. Read the full article here. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Research & Impact Social Work Initiatives Global Mission Leadership Initiative GML alumni updates About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678