Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Events > Continuing Education > Webinar Conference: Motivational Interviewing — Evolution & New Developments Search for: Webinar Conference: Motivational Interviewing — Evolution & New Developments July 27 9:30 am - 5:15 pm Event Organizer Office of Professional Excellence Email: swope@columbia.edu Website: ope.socialwork.columbia.edu + Google Calendar Register Here OPEN TO THE PUBLIC | ONLINE (VIA ZOOM) | REGISTRATION REQUIRED | 6.5 CE HOURS AVAILABLE FOR A FEE With a keynote address by Dr. William R. Miller, Motivational Interviewing Co-Founder and presentations by Colleen Marshall, Two Chairs Dr. Kamilla Venner, University of New Mexico Dr. Allen Zweben, Columbia School of Social Work Join us for a full-day, online conference on motivational interviewing (MI). In his keynote address, Dr. William Miller will trace the growth of MI from its happenstance beginnings and the first description in 1983, to its continuing evolution as a method that is now in widespread practice in many professions, nations, and languages. He will also overview the rapid growth of research on the outcomes and processes of MI and on how people learn it. Finally, he will reflect on parallels between MI core processes and the characteristics found in 70 years of psychotherapy research to distinguish more effective therapists. For more information, including descriptions of the day’s other presentations, please see the registration page f. Back to Events About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT