Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Admissions > Applying to CSSW Search for: Applying to CSSW Thank you for your interest in applying to join the Columbia School of Social Work’s community. Our MSW students represent a rich diversity of backgrounds and perspectives. What draws them together is their common aspiration to a high educational standard and their shared passion for developing an agenda that forwards human rights, social justice, and respect for human diversity, in alignment with the School’s mission (see mission statement). Our students are committed to improving lives and strengthening communities locally and globally in their roles as clinicians, advocates, planners, policy analysts, researchers, and managers. They aspire to assume leadership roles in social work practice and research. The Application Process Apply Now Please note: We waive application fees for veterans of the U.S. armed forces as well as alumni of AmeriCorps, Peace Corps, Teach for America, McNair Scholars, the Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) and the Educational Opportunity Program (EOP). Contents Eligibility Requirements Deadlines Visit Us Further Questions? Eligibility Requirements At a minimum, candidates for the MSW program must meet the following criteria: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. Academic record suggesting the ability to excel at graduate-level study. Serious commitment to the profession of social work and the capacity to meet the demands of professional training, often demonstrated by internships and life experiences. For non-native English speaking applicants only: a combined TOEFL score of 100 or higher; IELTS Band of 7.0 or higher; Duolingo English Test score of 120 or higher. Note: Our MSW program does not require GRE scores. Deadlines For spring term (January) admission: October 15 of the preceding year Available program options: 16-month Program (on-campus only); Part-Time to Full-Time (Extended) and One-Year Residency for Working Professionals (Reduced Residency) Programs (on-campus & online). For fall term (September) admission: PRIORITY DEADLINE: December 1 F INAL DEADLINE: February 15 Deadline Extended to April 1, 2022, 11:59 PM ET Available program options: Two-Year, Advanced Standing, Part-Time to Full-Time (Extended), Transfer, and One-Year Residency for Working Professionals (Reduced Residency) Programs (on-campus & online) and the International Program (on-campus only). For specific deadline information, please see the Application Portal. Visit Us Studying for an MSW is rewarding; it is also a big commitment. As you contemplate which school is the best fit for you and your requirements as a budding social work professional, we encourage you to learn as much as you can about us and the wider university community. Attend an information session to meet with members of our Admissions team and the wider CSSW community. Click here for the latest information session schedule. The team also visits cities around the country. Visit an admissions counselor during our scheduled drop-in office hours. Meet one of our admissions representatives when they are in a city near you. Take a tour of the Columbia University campus and our Social Work Building. Attend events taking place right now at the School, in person or via Livestream. Fill in our Request for Information to receive invitations. Participating in events convened by the School is an effective way to engage with our community. Learn more about our faculty, research centers, and the student experience. Further Questions? If you have any further questions about the application process, please contact our Admissions team at cssw-admit@columbia.edu or by phone at 1-212-851-2400 (toll free: 1-855-532-5200) About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT