Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Student Resources Student Resources Commencement 2021 – See the latest information here. Financial Resources Explore information related to financial aid, fellowships and scholarships; funded field programs; how to access Steve Hicks School’s supplemental financial resources including the Student Emergency Fund, Professional Development Fund and Food Pantry. Learn More Working at the Steve Hicks School Requirements, information, forms and more for BSW, MSSW and PhD students who wish to work as teaching assistants, research assistants or assistant instructors at the Steve Hicks School. Learn More Student Organizations Learn about the student organizations at the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Learn More More to Explore Field Education Access field form and guides, check the Office of Field Education calendar, find contact information and more. Learn More Syllabi Archive Search syllabi by program, course name, course number, semester/year or professor. Learn More DiNitto Career Center The DiNitto Career Center is a one-stop shp for career advising at all stages of the job market exploration. Learn More Office of Professional Development Find workshops and events from the Steve Hicks School’s Office of Professional Development. Learn More Counseling and Mental Health The Counseling and Mental Health Center offers mental health program and services to support students’ well-being, academic and life goals. Laura Dupuis, LCSW, is the Counselor in Academic Residence (CARE) at the Steve Hicks School. Learn More Library Resources The University of Texas Libraries guide on getting started with social work research. Learn More IT Services Visit this page for tech support and questions related to email, IDs, software and more. Learn More Student Parking See options for student parking on campus. Please note: Student employees working 20 hours or more are eligible for staff/class-A permits. Consider taking public transport: Capital Metro mainline buses and trains are free with a valid university photo ID. Learn More Texas Residency Texas law classifies each person who applies for admission to a Texas public college or university as a resident of Texas, a nonresident, or a foreign (international) student. How you’re classified is important because it determines whether you pay non-resident tuition rates or in-state rates, which are lower. Being a resident also qualifies you to apply for financial aid awarded by the state. Learn More Title IX Office This university office seeks to create and maintain an education and work environment free from all forms of sexual harassment, sex discrimination, exploitation and intimidation where all students, faculty and staff can learn, work and thrive. Learn More NASW Code of Ethics The National Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics is intended to serve as a guide to the everyday professional conduct of social workers. Go to NASW site Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved