Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Admissions MSW FAQ - MSW BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Field Education Inquiry form Events Contact us FAQ - MSW 1. How can I apply for financial aid? Two documents are required as part of the MSW application, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or Financial Aid Profile (for international students) and our GSSW Financial Aid Form. All of these documents are submitted online. Visit our How to Apply page for links to each of these required forms. The School of Social Work operates on a rolling admissions process. Applications will be reviewed and financial assistance will be dispersed on a first-come, first-served basis. Submit your application as soon as possible for best financial aid consideration. 2. What kind of financial aid is available? The three sources of financial assistance we offer for the residential program are: Tuition Remission- these awards are a direct offset of tuition costs charged to you by Baylor. These funds are credited to your student account at the beginning of each semester and not available for personal expenses. Scholarships- these awards are based on need and/or merit and are awarded as funds that do not have to be paid back by the student. You can find information about scholarships offered by the School of Social Work here. Graduate Assistantship Stipend- A stipend is defined as a fixed sum of money paid periodically for work. A graduate assistant is a person who serves in a support role in the School of Social Work. Graduate stipends are considered income. All financial assistance is awarded on the strength of the candidates' application, merit and level of need. The School of Social Work operates on a rolling admissions process. Applications will be reviewed and financial assistance will be dispersed on a first-come, first-served basis. Submit your application as soon as possible for best financial aid consideration. 3. What is the cost of the MSW program? A full list of tuition and other associated costs can be found here 4. Will my GPA make or break my admittance into the MSW program? Our Admissions Committee takes a holistic approach when reviewing applications. Though, many factors enter into the admission decision for a professional school; there is not one single indicator for admission. 5. Do I have to take the GRE? No. The GRE is not required. 6. I'm an international student. What do I need to score on the TOEFL? Attain a minimum of 550 on the paper-based, a 213 on the computer-based or an 80 on internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) OR 6.5 on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). 7. Who should I ask to write reference letters for me? Three recommendation letters are required from each applicant. At least one of the letters must be an academic recommendation. Select people who have knowledge of you in some of the following areas: intellectual competence; potential for success; the ability to work with people about sensitive issues, including people from diverse backgrounds; possession of critical thinking and communication skills; and a sense of values and ethics. References from your faculty and those who have supervised you or know of your work in a social work-related paid or volunteer setting are particularly helpful. Advanced Standing applicants will need a reference from the undergraduate program director, the director of field education, or the field instructor. 8. How many students are in the program? Currently, there are about 120 students annually in the MSW program. Non-practice class size averages about 20; practice classes average about 12. 9. How do I apply for the joint degree program? You are required to apply and be admitted to both Truett Seminary and the School of Social Work in order to pursue the MSW/MDIV or MSW/MTS joint degree. For information about applying to Truett Seminary, click here. In order to pursue the MSW/MBA joint degree, you must be admitted to both the School of Social Work and the Hankamer School of Business. For information about applying to Hankamer School of Business, click here. 10. Is a deposit required? Yes, a non-refundable $250 deposit is required. 11. Do I get to choose my internships? When do they start and how long are they? There are many opportunities for internships, and students may express preference of context and/or population that the Directors of Field Education will take into consideration as they make internship assignments. The generalist internship (for the standard program only) begins in the fall of your first year and continues through that spring (16 hours per week). The specialized internship begins in the fall of your first year for advanced standing students, or in the fall of your second year for standard students. Students are required to complete a field internship at two different field sites. Most students in the advanced year will spend approximately 20 hours per week in the internship for both the fall and spring semesters. The Field Education manual describes this more in detail as well as the potential of "block" placements for some clinical specialization students. Visit our Field Education page to see more information. 12. Do you offer night classes? Can I work while I'm in school? With campus locations in Waco, Texas and online, the Garland School of Social Work is able to offer two different program experiences for students. Students at our Waco campus will experience a full-time, residential and more traditional on-campus experience. Students at our online campus will have more flexibility in their schedule with part-time program options and evening classes. 13. What if I don't feel called to work in a congregation or faith-based program-is there a place for me here? Yes! The Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) has fully accredited our program as one that provides excellent social work education and training for you to be a competent professional social worker. 14. Is this a religious graduate program? Our program is based from a Christian worldview, and there are reading assignments that include a Christian perspective. However, our program's chief purpose is to prepare and educate professional social workers, regardless of the student's faith (or non-faith) base. The integration of faith and practice relates to these ideas: Self-awareness of the values, belief system, and/or faith of the practitioner (recognition of strengths as well as biases) Ability to approach the helping process holistically, including the client's spiritual needs and strengths Awareness and respect for the context in which the social worker practices, e.g., secular or faith-based organization. 15. Tell me about Waco. Waco's population is about 150,000 (including surrounding suburbs), which makes it a great size town for having lots of restaurants, stores, things to do, but not so big that traffic is a problem. The weather is usually mild from October to June but is rather hot in the summer. The cost of living is low, and people are friendly. The Baylor campus is beautiful, and there is a vast array of things to do on and off campus! We invite you to come visit and see for yourself. Many students come to our campus and have said that all they did was step out of the car, look around, and the feeling of "this is where I want to be" surrounds them. To schedule a visit or see a complete list of opportunities to connect with our recruitment team, click here. 16. Where can I live? There are many apartments near campus as well as all over Waco. There are also graduate residence halls. Email GSHC@baylor.edu for more information about on campus graduate housing. 17. Where is the School of Social Work in Waco? We are located at 811 Washington Avenue in downtown Waco. Parking is available in 2 lots, one on 9th Street and one directly behind the building on Columbus Avenue. Baylor parking decals are required. Street parking is available for those without Baylor parking permits. BACK TO TOP Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Admissions MSW FAQ - MSW About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678