Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Map & Directions Search for: The Columbia School of Social Work is housed in the Social Work Building, which is located on 1255 Amsterdam Avenue (corner of Amsterdam and 121st Street)—a short walk to the northeast of Columbia’s Morningside campus. It is easy to reach us by public transport or car. A current Columbia I.D. is required to enter the building; otherwise, you are required to sign in. TRAVEL DIRECTIONS By Subway Take the 1 Subway (Local) to 116th Street. Walk through the Main Campus and turn left (North) on Amsterdam Avenue. You may also take the A, B, C or D Subway to 125th Street. For more information, go to Metro Transit Authority’s interactive subway map. By Bus The M11 stops at 120th Street and Amsterdam. The M4 and M104 stop at 122nd Street and Broadway (walk one block east to the Social Work Building). The M60 stops at 125th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. For more information on the M-series buses, and to download timetables, go to Metro Transit Authority’s Manhattan Bus Schedules. By Metro-North Take the Harlem Line and get off at 125th Street (one stop before Grand Central Terminal), where you can catch the M60 bus west to 125th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. For more information, go to MTA Metro-North Railroad Schedules. By Car  From the North: Take the New York Thruway (I-87) or the New England Thruway (I-95) south to the Cross Bronx Expressway (I-95) in the direction of the George Washington Bridge. Take the exit for the Henry Hudson Parkway south (the last exit before the bridge). Exit the Parkway at 125th Street and proceed to Amsterdam Avenue. Make a right turn onto Amsterdam Avenue and travel south to 1255 (between 121st and 122nd Streets). From the South or West: Take the New Jersey Turnpike north or I-80 east to the George Washington Bridge. As you cross the bridge, take the exit for the Henry Hudson Parkway south. Exit the Parkway at West 95th Street and Riverside Drive and follow the directions “From Riverside Drive and 95th Street,” below. From Long Island: Take the Long Island Expressway or the Grand Central Parkway west to the Cross Island Parkway north. Cross the Throgs Neck Bridge onto the Cross Bronx Expressway (I-95 south) and proceed as in “By Car from the North,” above. From NY Airports  LaGuardia: Take the Grand Central Parkway west to the Triborough Bridge, to Manhattan. Follow 125th Street across Manhattan 11 blocks to Amsterdam Ave. Turn left onto Amsterdam Avenue and travel south to 1255. Kennedy: Take the Van Wyck Expressway (I-678) to the Whitestone Bridge and across. Get onto I-95 south and follow the directions under “By Car from the North,” above. Newark: Follow directions under “By Car from the South or West,” above. Parking You may park on the streets around campus or use the local parking garages. The nearest parking garage to the Social Work Building is GMC Garage,  532 West 122nd Street (between Broadway & Amsterdam Ave.), tel: 212-961-1075; open from 6:00 a.m. to midnight. FURTHER QUESTIONS? If you need any assistance, please do not hesitate to contact us at sw-assist@columbia.edu. View Larger Map About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT