Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Research Research Research that Changes Lives We address some of the most challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to make a positive difference in people’s lives. For detailed information, guidance and procedures related to all phases of your sponsored research project, please visit the OADR Wiki space. OADR Wiki Steve Hicks School Research by the Numbers 2020-2021 $23 million in awards from federal, state, local agencies and nonprofits $54 million in available funds Research Institutes Research Institutes Directed by social work faculty, our research institutes focus on interdisciplinary, scientifically rigorous social and behavioral research. Institutes also provide expertise and a range of services including program evaluation and training. Learn More Postdoctoral Training Postdoctoral Training The postdoctoral training “Promoting equity in cardiovascular health” is held in collaboration with the Dell Medical School through an award from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Learn More Research Projects Research Projects Our faculty lead research and training projects funded by a variety of federal, state and foundation sources. See a list of current and past research projects. Learn More Research Stories Research Stories Faculty and students at the Steve Hicks School bring understanding to critical social problems, and develop and implement real solutions to address them. Read about the impact of recent research projects on communities in Texas and across the nation. Learn More Helpful Links Services to Researchers The Office of the Associate Dean for Research ensures that proposals and projects comply with sponsor, state, and federal guidelines, internal policies as well as university and school requirements. Learn More Contact Learn who does what in the Office of Associate Dean for Research and find their contact information. Learn More Bridging Barriers Bridging Barriers is a university-wide grand challenges initiative, driven by UT faculty and researchers, that tackles some of the hardest fundamental research questions facing our world. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved