Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Academics » Field Education Field Education Field Education Through field education, students complete academic internships in an agency in the community, where they learn and practice increasingly advanced social work skills alongside veteran social workers who supervise them. Students also take an accompanying practice course and field seminar where they can debrief and learn from their internship experiences. The Steve Hicks School partners with hundreds of agencies and professional social workers in Austin and beyond to provide structured, experiential learning opportunities for BSW and MSSW students, build capacity in the community and advance social justice. Agencies in central Texas and beyond are eager to host Longhorn social work interns because of their high caliber and the programmatic support that the Steve Hicks School provides. See Upcoming Field Events BSW Field Education In their last semester, BSW students develop their professional skills through 480 clock-hours of internship in an agency in the community. Learn More MSSW Field Education Through a first and a final field placement, MSSW students develop their professional skills through 1,020 clock-hours of internship in an organization in the community. Learn More Funded Field Programs Explore field-based programs that offer student funding and specialized training. Learn More Stories from Field Learn about some of our field placements and what our students are doing in them. Learn More More to Explore Field Forms and Guides Find forms, guides and other field-related resources for BSW and MSSW students. Go Resources for Field Instructors Find trainings, forms and manuals for field instructors and agencies. Learn More Host a Social Work Intern Social work interns bring many benefits such as additional helping hands from tech-savvy students eager to contribute, free CEUs, and support from a Steve Hicks School faculty liaison. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved