Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Academics » Bachelor of Social Work Bachelor of Social Work Bachelor of Social Work Helpful Links SWEEP BSW Field Education Academic Advising Current BSW Students The BSW major combines liberal arts and social work classes with a focus on social justice and built-in experiential learning in the community. It is a professional degree that leads to licensure and direct entry into human service jobs. How to Apply BSW Program Requirements The Bachelor of Social Work program requires 122 credit-hours of coursework, 480 clock-hours of field internship in a community agency under the supervision of a licensed social worker, and 60 clock-hours of service learning in a community agency. Learn More Service Learning Beginning in the first semester, students integrate hands-on, experiential learning with classroom learning and understand the importance of civic engagement in the community you live. Learn More SWEEP SWEEP (Social Work Education Enhancement Program) supports BSW students through inclusive community building, mentorship, collaboration and information sharing. Learn More BSW Field Education Hone your professional skills during your last semester through a field internship supervised by a professional social worker in a community agency that meets your goals and interests. Learn More Honors Program Are you interested in conducting your own research in a topic related to social work? This program is for you. Learn More Minors and Certificates Are you interested in social work but don’t plan to practice as a professional social worker? Consider our minors and certificates. Learn More Go Global Take your education beyond the Forty Acres and gain an international experience that will set you apart in your career and help you reach your goals. Learn More Major in Social Work at UT Austin Major in Social Work at UT Austin Hear about the undergraduate experience at the Steve Hicks School from students and hear assistant dean Cossy Hough share why you should major in social work at UT Austin. More to Explore Resources for Current BSW Students We are here to support you. Connect to the BSW Program Team and explore resources for current students. Go to Student Resources Financial Resources The cost of college shouldn’t deter your passion for helping others as s social worker. Explore financial resources at UT Austin and the Steve Hicks School. Learn More Texas Admissions Texas Admissions is your one-stop shop to explore the Forty Acres, learn about majors, and find all the information you need to join the Longhorn nation. Go to Texas Admissions Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved