Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Read more Student Research Spotlight Share The Honors Program The Honors Program in Sociology consists of advanced independent study under the direction of a faculty supervisor, culminating in the completion and presentation to the department of an honors thesis. A major who successfully completes an honors thesis in sociology will also satisfy the culminating experience in the major. The program is open to any major who satisfies the minimum college honors requirements, including a 3.0 GPA overall, has a 3.3 GPA in the major, and has completed all theory and methods requirements for the major prior to submission of the thesis proposal. Thesis Writing Timeline A written thesis proposal must be submitted to that advisor no later than the end of the third week of Fall of senior year. Submitted to Marc Dixon (chair) At the end of your first term of Socy 98 (typically winter senior year), your progress towards completion of the thesis is evaluated by your advisor and the rest of the department. The preliminary draft of the thesis is due no later than the end of the fifth week of Spring senior year. Once revisions have been made the final draft of the thesis is due no later than the end of the eighth week of Spring senior year. Preparing for the Honors Thesis Toward the end of the junior year a prospective honors major should identify a faculty member in the department who is willing to serve as a thesis advisor in order to discuss the proposed thesis. Advisors must confirm that they will be on campus during the two terms in which the student takes Sociology 98, i.e., sociology honors credits, unless other arrangements are made. A written thesis proposal must be submitted to the advisor no later than the end of the third week of the third term or prior to graduation, and preferably earlier. After the proposal has been approved by the advisor and a copy filed with the department the student is accepted into the honors program. In thinking through the possibility of doing a senior thesis, much helpful information can be gleaned from the Thesis Guide written by Morgan Matthews '15. The Thesis Writing Process All honors majors must take Sociology 98 twice for thesis credit during the senior year, although exceptions may be permitted. Because only one term of Sociology 98 counts as one of the seven additional courses numbered 10 or higher that are required for completion of the major, taking a second term of Sociology 98 means that Honors students will typically take at least 12 course credits in sociology. At the end of the first term of Sociology 98 the student's progress toward the completion of the thesis is evaluated by the advisor in consultation with the department. If satisfactory progress is not being made, then the thesis project may be terminated and a grade given for the first term of thesis credit. (See the departmental handout, "The Sociology Honors Program," for more detailed information.) A preliminary draft of the thesis must be turned into the thesis advisor no later than the end of the fifth week of the second term of Sociology 98, and preferably earlier. Once revisions have been made, three (3) copies of the completed thesis (one bound and two unbound) must be turned into the thesis advisor no later than the end of the eighth week of the second term of Sociology 98. The thesis will be graded by the thesis advisor and a second reader appointed by the department. Students receiving a B+ (3.33) or higher on the thesis will receive honors recognition in the major. High honors may be awarded by faculty vote for truly exceptional work. Students interested in participating in the program should obtain the pamphlet "The Sociology Honors Program" from the Department Office. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback