Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Emily Walton Named Society of Fellows Director Posted on April 29, 2022 by Bill Platt News subtitle The sociologist says the interdisciplinary project spurs creation of new knowledge. Image Image Emily Walton, associate professor of sociology, is the new director of the Society of Fellows. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Body Emily Walton, associate professor of sociology and a faculty fellow in the Society of Fellows, will become the society’s next director, Dean of the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Jon Kull ’88 announced. Walton follows Mona Domosh, the Joan P. and Edward J. Foley Jr. 1933 Professor of Geography, who has led the society since 2019. Domosh welcomed Walton and praised the mission of the Society of Fellows, founded in 2014 by President Philip J. Hanlon ’77 to foster intellectual innovation across the institution. “The Society of Fellows is one of the few—if not only—spaces at Dartmouth dedicated to the interdisciplinary exchange of knowledge and experiences, an invaluable asset in a world that can only be comprehended through multiple lenses,” says Domosh. Kull says the society, which is part of the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, has fostered an interdisciplinary network of early career scholars and faculty mentors that has continued to grow in the eight years since its founding. “I want to thank Mona for guiding the evolution of this extraordinary project at Dartmouth,” Kull says. “And I am thrilled that Emily Walton, whose work in sociology looks at how racially diverse communities function, will transition from faculty fellow to the role of director of the Society of Fellows.” The society’s postdoctoral fellows, in collaboration with faculty fellows and faculty affiliates, form an interdisciplinary community that integrates research and teaching across all divisions within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the Tuck School of Business, Thayer School of Engineering, and the Geisel School of Medicine. Walton says her work in sociology to understand how differently racialized groups interact together in community is well suited to the task of leading the Society of Fellows. She sees the core of this work as integrating people from diverse scholarly fields into a creative collaborative project. “My tasks as the director are to support a culture of openness and curiosity and encourage a spirit of risk-taking. This kind of atmosphere will help bring the postdoctoral fellows together across disciplinary boundaries in order to create something that is new,” Walton says. “What’s really incredible about interdisciplinary space is that it is integrating, it is synthesizing, it is energizing,” she says. The application period for the next cohort of postdoctoral fellows will open in July and run through Sept. 12, 2022. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback