Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Kimberly B. Rogers Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Sociology Quantitative Social Science Program Affiliate Connect with Us Twitter LinkedIn Kimberly's research examines how inequalities are produced, maintained, and resisted through behavior and emotion dynamics in social interactions. Her publications evaluate the degree of consensus in identity sentiments and impression formation processes within and between cultures, examine behavioral and emotional responses to stereotyped groups and unfair reward distributions, and reveal the implications of micro-social processes for status and power hierarchies, occupational inequality, victimization, and mental health outcomes. View Curriculum Vitae Personal Website Contact Kimberly.B.Rogers@Dartmouth.edu 308E Blunt HB 6104 Education B.A., Randolph-Macon Woman's College, 2003 M.A., Wake Forest University (Psychology), 2005 M.A., Duke University (Sociology), 2008 Ph.D., Duke University (Sociology), 2013 Areas of Expertise social psychology /sociology of emotions /group processes /identity /computational social science /quantitative methods /cultural sociology Selected Publications Maloney, Em, Kimberly B. Rogers, and Lynn Smith-Lovin. Forthcoming. "Status as Deference: Deference Scores and Occupational Prestige as Two Different Ways to Understand Status Rankings, Occupational Classes, and Emotional Outcomes." RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences. Rogers, Kimberly B. Forthcoming. "Developing an Introductory Course Design that Promotes Sociological Literacy." In The Handbook of Teaching and Learning in Sociology, edited by Sergio Cabrera and Stephen Sweet. New York, NY: New York University Press. Boyle, Kaitlin M. and Kimberly B. Rogers (equal authorship). 2022. “Self-Sentiments and Depressive Symptoms: A Longitudinal Analysis.” American Behavioral Scientist. Quinn, Joseph, Robert E. Freeland, Jesse Hoey, Kimberly B. Rogers, and Lynn Smith-Lovin. 2022. "How Cultural Meanings of Occupations in the U.S. Changed with the COVID-19 Pandemic." American Behavioral Scientist. Rogers, Kimberly B. 2021. “Separate and Unequal: Predicting Intergroup Behavior and Emotions with Social Identity Meanings." Advances in Group Processes 38: 23-52. Rogers, Kimberly B. 2021. "Event Likelihood Judgments Revisited." Social Psychology Quarterly 84: 177-88. Boyle, Kaitlin M. and Kimberly B. Rogers. 2020. “Beyond the Rape “Victim”-“Survivor” Binary: How Race, Gender, and Identity Processes Interact to Shape Distress.” Sociological Forum 35: 323-45. - 2021 Honorable Mention for Outstanding Recent Contribution Award, Sociology of Emotions Section, American Sociological Association Rogers, Kimberly B. 2020. “The Problem of Order: Understanding How Culture Predicts Social Action.” Sociology Compass 14(7): 1-11. Rogers, Kimberly B., Adam Nemeroff, and Kelly Caputo. 2020. “Strategic Design Toward Foundational Learning Goals in Introduction to Sociology.” Teaching Sociology 48: 40-53. Rogers, Kimberly B. 2019. "Identity Meanings and Categorical Inequality." Pp. 267-88 in Identities in Everyday Life, edited by Jan Stets and Richard Serpe. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. Rogers, Kimberly B. 2019. “Sources of Consensus and Variegation in Cultural Affective Meanings.” Social Currents 6: 219-38. Hoey, Jesse, Tobias Schröder, Jonathan Morgan, Kimberly B. Rogers, Deepak Rishi, and Mei Nagappan. 2018. “Artificial Intelligence and Social Simulation: Studying Group Dynamics on a Massive Scale.” Small Groups Research 49: 647-83. Rogers, Kimberly B. 2018. “Do You See What I See? Testing for Individual Differences in Impressions of Events.” Social Psychology Quarterly 81: 149-72. Kriegel, Darys J., Jesse K. Clark, Robert Freeland, David R. Heise, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed, Dawn T. Robinson, Kimberly B. Rogers, and Lynn Smith-Lovin. 2017. "A Multi-Level Investigation of Arabic-Language Impression Change." International Journal of Sociology 47: 278-95. Morgan, Jonathan H., Kimberly B. Rogers, and Mao Hu. 2016. “Distinguishing Normative Processes from Noise: A Comparison of Four Approaches to Modeling Impressions of Social Events.” Social Psychology Quarterly 79: 311-32. Schröder, Tobias, Jesse Hoey, and Kimberly B. Rogers. 2016. “Modeling Dynamic Identities and Uncertainty in Social Interactions: Bayesian Affect Control Theory.” American Sociological Review 81: 828-55. - 2017 Outstanding Recent Contribution Award, Social Psychology Section, American Sociological Association - 2017 Outstanding Article Publication Award, Mathematical Sociology Section, American Sociological Association Clay-Warner, Jody, Dawn T. Robinson, Lynn Smith-Lovin, Kimberly B. Rogers, and Katie R. James. 2016. “Justice Standard Determines Emotional Responses to Over-Reward.” Social Psychology Quarterly 79: 44-67. Rogers, Kimberly B. 2015. “Expectation States, Social Influence, and Affect Control: Opinion and Sentiment Change through Social Interaction.” Advances in Group Processes 32: 65-98. Foy, Steven, Robert E. Freeland, Andrew Miles, Kimberly B. Rogers, and Lynn Smith-Lovin. 2014. “Emotions and Affect as Source, Outcome, and Resistance to Inequality.” In Handbook of the Social Psychology of Inequality, edited by J. D. McLeod, E. J. Lawler and M. L. Schwalbe. New York, NY: Springer. Rogers, Kimberly B., Tobias Schröder, and Christian von Scheve. 2014. “Dissecting the Sociality of Emotion: A Multi-Level Approach.” Emotion Review 6: 124-33. Rogers, Kimberly B. and Dawn T. Robinson. 2014. “Measuring Emotions.” In Handbook of the Sociology of Emotions, Volume II, edited by J. E. Stets and J. H. Turner. New York, NY: Springer. Rogers, Kimberly B., Tobias Schröder, and Wolfgang Scholl. 2013. “The Affective Structure of Stereotype Content: Behavior and Emotion in Intergroup Context.” Social Psychology Quarterly 76: 125-50. Schröder, Tobias, Kimberly B. Rogers, Julija Mell, Shuuichiro Ike, and Wolfgang Scholl. 2013. “Affective Meanings of Stereotyped Social Groups in Cross-Cultural Comparison.” Group Processes & Intergroup Relations 16: 717-33. + View more Works In Progress Boyle, Kaitlin M., Kimberly B. Rogers, and Maria Scaptura. "Blocked Goals and Cracked Mirrors: Strain, Inauthenticity, and Violence." Under review. Doan, Long and Kimberly B. Rogers. ""It's Easier to Ignore Privileges than Disadvantages": How Situational Factors Shape Identity Activation." In preparation. Rogers, Kimberly B. and Jonathan H. Morgan. “Investigating the Cultural Stability of Impression Formation Processes in the United States: 1978 vs. 2010.” In preparation. Selected Works & Activities "THEMIS.COG: Theoretical and Empirical Modeling of Identity and Sentiments in Collaborative Groups." Trans-Atlantic Platform, Digging into Data Challenge. Grant project funded by the NSF, NSERC, SSHRC, and DFG, in collaboration with Jesse Hoey, Mei Nagappan, and Tobias Schroeder. Final grant white paper available at SocArXiv. Announcements and Press Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning. January 5, 2022. "Courses to Integrate Human-Centered Design." Dartmouth News. August 23, 2021. "Faculty Awards Recognize Teaching and Scholarship." Dartmouth News. March 26, 2020. "'Open for Business': Making the Switch to Remote Learning." Teaching in Higher Ed Podcast. October 3, 2019. "Episode 277: Intentional Tech with Derek Bruff." Eastern Region Campus Compact. December 17, 2018. "Announcing the 2019-2020 ESI Participants." Leading Lines Podcast, Vanderbilt University. November 5, 2018. "Episode 47: Kimberly Rogers." The Hechinger Report. July 17, 2018. "Alone in the Ivy League." Campus Compact for New Hampshire. April 10, 2018. "2018 Presidents' Award Recipients." The Dartmouth. February 28, 2018. "Best of Both Worlds: Social Spaces at Dartmouth." The Dartmouth. January 17, 2018. "Courses Partner with Local Organizations." Dartmouth News. September 15, 2017. "Dartmouth Conference Explores ‘Interacting Across Difference’." Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning. May 25, 2017. "Doing Sociology." Trans-Atlantic Platform for the Social Sciences and Humanities. March 29, 2017. "Winners of Round Four of the T-AP Digging into Data Challenge." The Dartmouth. January 27, 2017. "New York Times Reports on Inequality at College." The Dartmouth. October 6, 2016. "Sociology Prof Kimberly Rogers Talks Her Research and Teaching." Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning. June 28, 2016. "Round Three Gateway Courses." Office of the Provost, Dartmouth College. April 6, 2016. "Seed Funding: 2016 Funded Projects." Neukom Institute for Computational Science, Dartmouth College. March 22, 2016. "2016 CompX Winners." Courses SOCY 1, Introductory Sociology SOCY 11, Research Methods SOCY 38, Status and Power in Social Interaction SOCY 65, The Social Psychology of Inequality SOCY 91, The Sociological Imagination + View more Related Links Quantitative Social Science Program Google Scholar LinkedIn Profile Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback