Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Research » Institutes and Centers Institutes and Centers Directed by social work faculty, our research institutes focus on interdisciplinary, scientifically rigorous social and behavioral research. Institutes also provide expertise and a range of services including program evaluation and training. Addiction Research Institute (ARI) ARI focuses on substance abuse among under-served populations through a social work perspective that emphasizes factors at the individual, family, organizational, societal, and cultural levels. Learn More Health Behavior Research and Training Institute (HBRT) HBRT specializes in the development and implementation of interventions addressing behavior change. Prevention research has targeted HIV and safer sexual practices, prenatal health, substance use, STI testing, and fetal alcohol spectrum disorder. Learn More Institute for Collaborative Health Research and Practice ICHRP is s an academic-community partnership that brings together practice and research professionals to investigate and address the health needs of individuals and communities. Learn More Institute for Military and Veteran Family Wellness In joint affiliation with the Steve Hicks School of Social Work and Dell Medical School, researchers and community members collaborate to develop programs and practices needed by service members, veterans, their caregivers, and their families. Learn More Institute for Organizational Excellence (IOE) IOE promotes excellence within organizations by encouraging research and continuing education. Learn More Institute on Domestic Violence & Sexual Assault (IDVSA) IDVSA conducts research and shares expertise through collaboration with community agencies and local, state, and national organizations. It also offers training and disseminates information on domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking to policy makers, students and service providers. Learn More Texas Center for Disability Studies (TCDS) TCDS is one of 67 nonprofit University Centers for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities (UCEDD) composed of university-level professionals, statewide service providers, advocacy organizations and regional and local communities with the guiding belief in individualized supports, inclusion, self-determination and collaboration to address policy issues and systemic change. Learn More Texas Institute for Child and Family Wellbeing (TXICFW) TXICFW is a partnership of researchers committed to producing quality research to guide policy and social work practice for children and families. Learn More Texas Institute for Excellence in Mental Health (TIEMH) TIEMH is a multi-disciplinary collaboration focused on improving the social, emotional, and behavioral health of Texans through evidence-based practice implementation, workforce training and technical assistance, research and evaluation, policy and program development, and information dissemination. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved