Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Sociology Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Standing Faculty Research Faculty Secondary Appointments Emeritus Adjunct Fellows / Lecturers In Memoriam Staff Graduate Students Students on the Job Market Visitors and Postdoctoral Scholars Undergraduate Graduate Courses Colloquium Workshops Other Events Past Events Research Clusters Contact Us Search Camille Zubrinsky Charles, Ph.D. Walter H. and Leonore C. Annenberg Professor in the Social SciencesProfessor of Sociology, Africana Studies & Education camille_charles@pop.upenn.edu215.573.2357 335 McNeil Building Department of Africana Studies 3401 Walnut Street, Suite 331A Phone: 215.898.4965 Fax: 215.573.2052 Education Ph.D., Sociology, University of California, Los Angeles, 1996 M.A., Sociology, University of California, Los Angeles, 1992 B.A., Sociology, California State University, Sacramento, 1989 B.A., Communication Studies, California State University, Sacramento, 1989 Research Interests Camille Zubrinsky Charles is Walter H. and Leonore C. Annenberg Professor in the Social Sciences in the Department of Sociology, Graduate School of Education, and the Center for Africana Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. She is author of Won’t You Be My Neighbor: Race, Class and Residence in Los Angeles (Russell Sage, Fall 2006), which class- and race-based explanations for persisting residential segregation by race. She is also co-author of The Source of the River: The Social Origins of Freshmen at America’s Selective Colleges and Universities (2003, Princeton University Press). More recently, she is co-author of the forthcoming book, Taming the River: Negotiating the Academic, Financial, and Social Currents in Selective Colleges and Universities (co-authored with Douglas S. Massey and colleagues; Princeton University Press), the second in a series based the National Longitudinal Survey of Freshmen, and “Race in the American Mind: From the Moynihan Report to the Obama Candidacy” (co-authored with Lawrence Bobo). She is also nearing completion of a sole-authored book on Black racial identity in the United States, tentatively titled, The New Black: Race-Conscious or Post-Racial? Professor Charles earned her Ph.D. in 1996 from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was a project manager for the 1992-1994 Multi-City Study of Urban Inequality. Her research interests are in the areas of urban inequality, racial attitudes and intergroup relations, racial residential segregation, minorities in higher education, and racial identity; her work has appeared in Social Forces, Social Problems, Social Science Research, The DuBois Review, the American Journal of Education, the Annual Review of Sociology, the Chronicle of Higher Education and The Root. CV (file) 2020_cv_charles_camille.pdf252.83 KB Links Department of Africana Studies Population Studies Center Books Won't You Be My Neighbor? Race, Class, and Residence in Los Angeles Sociologist Camille Zubrinsky Charles explores how modern racial attitudes shape and are shaped by the places in which people live. Main navigation People Standing Faculty Research Faculty Secondary Appointments Emeritus Adjunct Fellows / Lecturers In Memoriam Staff Graduate Students Students on the Job Market Visitors and Postdoctoral Scholars Students on the Job Market View current Job Market Candidates from Penn Sociology. View Candidates Donate Contact Us Department of Sociology 3718 Locust Walk McNeil Building, Ste. 353 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6299 Phone: (215) 898-7665 Fax: (215) 573-2081 Irma Elo Chair Wendy Roth Graduate Chair Chenoa Flippen Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin