Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » About Us » Our Story Our Story Our Story The Graduate School of Social Work at The University of Texas at Austin opened its doors to students in the Fall of 1950. The only school of its kind in Texas, it offered a two-year program with the goal of educating outstanding professional social workers who could meet the demand for qualified personnel in social service agencies across the state. In 1967 the school added an undergraduate, professional degree with a concentration in social work. In 1974, the school opened a doctoral program with the goal of producing social work scientists, educators, scholars, and leaders in the field. In 2017, a transformative gift from Mr. Steve Hicks, UT Regent and telecommunications pioneer, named the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. Together, our faculty, students and alumni produce new knowledge and deliver public-spirited service that transforms lives on a grand scale and fulfills the university’s promise that “what starts here changes the world.” The University, in its rightful role as a pioneer in Texas education, will penetrate a long-neglected field when the School of Social Work opens its doors.Daily Texan editorial, 1950 A watershed in our history Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved