Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences School of Social Work About Social Work News Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact/Visit Us Room Reservation Calendar Academics BSW Program MSW Program JD/MSW Program Social Work Minor Field Education Pathways to Certification Research and Engagement Student Resources BSW Advising MSW Advising Scholarships HRSA Opportunities Student Organizations GTA Information Information for New Students Graduation Information Helpful Tools Alumni Give Now About Academics Research and Engagement Student Resources Alumni Full Site Navigation About Social Work News Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Contact/Visit Us Room Reservation Calendar Academics BSW Program MSW Program JD/MSW Program Social Work Minor Field Education Information for Agencies Information for Students Pathways to Certification Student Resources BSW Advising MSW Advising Scholarships HRSA Opportunities Student Organizations GTA Information Information for New Students Graduation Information Helpful Tools Congratulations to Our 2022 Graduates! Our school is home to a diverse group of students, faculty, staff and alumni. If you’re looking for a supportive, enriching community in which to gain the skills and perspectives that will prepare you for the honorable, challenging and rewarding field of social work, check us out. We offer a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree and a Master of Social Work (MSW) degree option, which includes a traditional two-year plan of study or the advanced standing, one-year course of study. At NC State, we prepare social workers for careers where they will make a difference in individual lives as well as in our society as a whole. Karen Bullock School of Social Work, Head Explore our BSW Program‌ Explore Our MSW Program‌ Alumni Council Interest Form‌ Alumni: Where Are You Now?‌ Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Email CSWE Accredited Program Through February 2029 Read More‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Programs Offered More Bachelor of Social Work A Bachelor of Social Work degree will prepare you for entry-level professional practice in social work or for advanced graduate-level academic work. Learn More‌ Social Work Minor Earn a minor in social work to become familiar with the social service system, major social welfare programs and elements of the profession of social work. Learn More‌ Master of Social Work Our Master of Social Work program will prepare you to practice in a variety of settings. We offer both advanced standing and traditional admissions options. Learn More‌ Our Mission The mission of the School of Social Work at NC State University is to prepare students for practice that addresses social, economic, cultural, demographic, and political changes affecting individuals, families, groups, communities and organizations. Through teaching, advising, research, and scholarship, the school emphasizes: professional ethics, social justice, diversity, and community engagement Ranked Among the Top 100 Graduate Social Work Programs Read More‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Social Work News More Stories News HRSA Awards NC State School of Social Work $2,242,725 to Address National Opioid Crisis through Workforce Expansion In an effort to combat the national opioid crisis in the United States and to prepare social work practitioners for work in the field of integrated behavioral health through clinical training, the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) has awarded the NC State School of Social Work $1,343,963 to train and prepare students to become clinical social workers to combat opioid use disorders (OUD) and other substance use disorders (SUD). Learn More‌ Events Submit an Event‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Social Work Events‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ NC State Academic Calendar‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Humanities and Social Sciences Social Work 205 1911 Building, Campus Box 7639, Raleigh, NC 27695-7639 919.515.2492 Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Resources for Faculty and Staff Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.