Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > About > Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Search for: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at the Columbia School of Social Work is committed to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion practices and policies in classrooms, social spaces, offices, and all interactions between CSSW students, faculty, and staff. The Office was created as a result of a student-led initiative to demonstrate a commitment to social justice, equity, and inclusion. The DEI Office oversees and develops programming and services that link issues of diversity, multiculturalism, inclusion, intersectionality, and social justice for students, faculty, and staff, including: facilitating affinity group-based supportive spaces, workshops and trainings for students, faculty and staff organizing school-wide heritage celebrations. collaborating with student caucuses; and providing mediation services. If you have a DEI-related concern, feedback or event idea, please share here. Contents Commitment to Diversity Initiatives About Us Commitment to Diversity From the Dean… Melissa Begg, Dean & Professor of the Columbia School of Social Work, reaffirms the School’s dedication to diversity and social justice. DEI Mission Statement Read our core beliefs on addressing power, race, oppression and privilege (PROP) via a lens that frames all academic and administrative activities. Our Guiding Principles Learn more about what Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) means at CSSW. DEI Advisory Committee This committee is charged with improving the systematic attention given to concerns related to diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging. PDSA The Professional Development and Self Awareness program (PDSA) promotes an inclusive environment that fosters the development of self-awareness and accountability. Resources Explore DEI-related resources and announcements. Initiatives News & Events Check out what the Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion has been up to lately. You can read some news about our initiatives and you can also check out events we are hosting or co-hosting in the future. News Events Heritage Calendar A comprehensive calendar of heritage events celebrated at CSSW. Coming Soon DEI Media Archives An archive of fully captioned video recordings of previous events – lectures, workshops, conversations, celebrations – hosted by DEI and PDSA. See archives About Us DEI Team Karma Lowe Assistant Dean, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion knl3@columbia.edu 212-851-2364 Room 531 Visit Our Space in Room 533 The home for the School of Social Work’s Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is the first space you see when exiting the elevator on the 5th floor of the Social Work Building. It contains A student lounge area, the primary space for programming and community building for CSSW’s students of color and LGBTQIA+ students Offices for the Assistant Dean of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and the DEI Program Coordinator To reserve the lounge, student groups should contact swdei@columbia.edu. When not reserved, the space is available as a general lounge area, open 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday–Thursday and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. Questions/concerns? Contact us: swdei@columbia.edu About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT