Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Jalin Makie '22 SMME minor wins Dartmouth's top male student-athlete of the year. THE ALFRED E. WATSON TROPHYPresented annually to Dartmouth's top male student-athlete of the year. Emily Walton Named Society of Fellows Director The sociologist says the interdisciplinary project spurs creation of new knowledge. Opinion: Elon Musk's Twitter gambit is another reminder that America's billionaires need to pay more in taxes Congratulations! Jessica Cortez '23 and Spencer Allen '23 - ASA Honors Program Jessica Cortez '23 and Spencer Allen '23 were recently accepted to the American Sociology Association (ASA) Undergraduate Honors Program! Quote: Janice McCabe in the Valley News "Overall at Dartmouth and other peer institutions, prioritizing legacy admissions makes it harder to achieve a diverse student body given what prev Debate Team Wins Second Consecutive National Championship Tyler Vergho and Arvind Shankar, both '23s, edged out a University of Michigan team. Brooke Harrington interview with CNN Don Lemon Brooke Harrington interviewed on CNN with the Don Lemon Tonight, April 7, 2022 A World of Science in a Box Guarini students bring new STEM curricula into local middle schools. Brooke Harrington interivew CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" What is an oligarch, really? The professor of sociology is cited in a "Washington Post" article about Recent Publications view all Fault Lines Among Asian Americans: Convergence and Divergence in Policy Opinion Sunmin Kim RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences April 2021, 7 (2) 46-67 What Capitalism Needs: Forgotten Lessons of Great Economists John L. Campbell, John A. Hall Cambridge University Press 2021 The World of States John L. Campbell, John A. Hall Cambridge University Press, May 2021 Beyond the Rape "Victim"–"Survivor" Binary: How Race, Gender, and Identity Processes Interact to Shape Distress Kimberly B. Rogers Sociological Forum, 18 February 2020 Events view all Jun 01 12:00AM Final day of fall term course change period. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 01 12:00AM Final day of summer term course change period. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 01 12:00AM Spring term classes end. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 02 12:00AM Pre-Examination Break. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 03 12:00AM Final examinations begin. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 12 9:00AM Commencement Dartmouth Green Dartmouth celebrates with the Class of 2022 at commencement exercises. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback