Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Student Resources » Working at the Steve Hicks School Working at the Steve Hicks School Working at the Steve Hicks School Explore employment options at the Steve Hicks School for current undergraduate and graduate students. Helpful Links DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Student Employment Information All students Work as a Research Assistant (RA) or Graduate Research Assistant (GRA) BSW, MSSW and PhD students wishing to be considered for RA or GRA positions must have a completed Research Assistant form on file with the Office of the Associate Dean for Research. Decisions about RA and GRA positions are made by individual faculty members with funded research projects. Explore existing research projects and the faculty members who lead them. For more information, please contact the Office of the Associate Dean for Research. Additional information for: BSW students Search available work-study jobs at the Steve Hicks School on HireUTexas. MSSW students Work as a Teaching Assistant (TA) or Graduate Assistant (GA) A limited number of TA and GA positions are available in increments of 5 to 20 hours a week. MSSW students wishing to be considered for TA or GA positions must have an updated Financial Support Application (FSA) on file. Submit FSA PhD students Work as a Teaching Assistant (TA) or Assistant Instructor (AI) PhD students must have a minimum GPA of 3.0 to be considered for TA and AI positions. The Graduate Program Coordinator sends periodical emails about available TA and AI positions. Interested students should respond to these e-mails. Positions are awarded according to the following priorities: TA positions: priority to students in the first three years of the program. AI positions: priority to students who completed their course work, completed Pedagogy (SW 398T), not taught previously and can demonstrate preparation for teaching. Overall priority to students who are on schedule to complete their degree in four years. Contact Sherry Melecki Resources for Student Employees Appointment information (Workday) Please check that the information about your current appointment (active/process, title, hours, dates, percent time) in Workday is the same as the information contained in your Steve Hicks School appointment email. Any discrepancies should be addressed with the Office of the Associate Dean for Research (research-related appointments) or the Dean’s Office (all other appointments). Learn More Student employee orientation (HR Office) Check this page for general orientation and required online compliance modules. Learn More New student employee checklist (HR Office) Make sure to addressed all items on this list. Learn More Graduate student employment (Office of Graduate Studies) Useful information and links about academic and non-academic graduate student employment. Learn More International student health insurance (International Office) Insurance in the United States can be complex and difficult to understand. Learn how to use your insurance benefits and where to go for the best care. You may be eligible to waive the university-provided student health insurance if you can provide proof of comparable coverage. Learn More Insurance and Benefits (HR Office) Overview of benefits. Please note that you have 30 days from the official employment start-date to make any changes on benefits coverage. Learn More Student Health Insurance Plan Information about the UT System Student Health Insurance Plan. Learn More Out-of-state tuition waivers (UT Direct) Waivers must be submitted every semester in which the student is employed 20 hours or more. Learn More Parking (Parking and Transportation Services) Student employees working 20 hours a week or more are eligible to purchase staff or class A-class parking permit. Use your appointment email to request it. Learn More Payroll (Payroll Services) For all your questions related to paycheck, deductions, etc. Learn More Tuition Reduction Benefit (Office of Graduate Studies) Teaching assistants, assistant instructors and some graduate research assistants are eligible for tax-exempted tuition reduction benefit. Learn More Tuition Billing (Texas One Stop) Information about tuition, fees, bills and more. Learn More Handbook of Operating Procedures (University Policy Office) All university appointments are subject to the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Learn More Rules and Regulations (Board of Regents) All university appointments are subject to the UT System Regents’ Rules and Regulations. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved