Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > About > Dean’s Messages > 2022 CSSW Commencement Speaker Search for: April 15, 2022 at 4:11 p.m. 2022 CSSW Commencement Speaker Dear CSSW community, I am delighted to share the wonderful news that Wanda M. Holland Greene will be Columbia School of Social Work’s 2022 commencement speaker. Ms. Holland Greene is Head of School at The Hamlin School in San Francisco as well the Vice Chair of Columbia University’s Board of Trustees. Ms. Holland Greene is nationally recognized and respected as an experienced leader in education with a passionate voice and powerful presence that inspires communities to achieve equity and excellence for all children. Her work has focused on a wide range of issues in education: mental health and emotional well-being; anti-racism and cultural competency; neurodiversity and learning differences; gender inequity and stereotype threat in the classroom; and global citizenship. Her commitment to these issues resonates strongly with CSSW’s mission to promote social and racial justice. Prior to her tenure at Hamlin, she served for eleven years as a senior administrator at The Park School in Brookline, MA. She began her career in education in New York City at The Columbia Greenhouse Nursery School and continued thereafter at The Chapin School, where she was a teacher and the school’s first Director of Student Life. A former faculty member of the National Association of Independent Schools’ Aspiring Heads Fellowship, Ms. Holland Greene continues her mentorship and advocacy for brand new heads of school as an executive coach. Ms. Holland Greene is a past recipient of the Alumna Achievement Award from Columbia College Women, was named one of San Francisco’s Most Influential Women in Bay Area Business in 2014, and in 2015 was awarded a Women Making History Award by the San Francisco Commission on the Status of Women. She is a 2020 recipient of the University’s John Jay Award, an honor bestowed annually to Columbia College alumni for distinguished professional achievement. Ms. Holland Greene received her BA from Columbia College and her MA and EdM from Columbia Teachers College. Wanda Holland Greene fully embraces and lives the social work ethos. She is a truly inspirational speaker, believes in our School and its mission, and knows and supports our community in myriad ways. We look forward to her bringing a fresh perspective that will further enrich our community and expand our horizons. I am delighted to welcome her as our keynote speaker for our first, eagerly anticipated in-person graduation in two years. We look forward to celebrating and honoring our wonderful graduates! In community, Melissa About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT