Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Integration of faith and practice. At the GSSW, social work is about service and justice, healing and restoration, and the dignity of each individual. It is a rich and diverse professional journey that will open many doors to serve others and work for justice in a hurting world. Explore BSW Explore the Bachelor of Social Work program. Learn More MSW Explore our residential Master of Social Work program. Learn More MSW (Online) Explore our online Master of Social Work program. Learn More PhD Explore our PhD in Social Work program. Learn More Apply Ready to apply to one of our programs? Click to learn more. Magazine Celebrating the accomplishments of our staff, the diligence of our faculty, the contributions of our students, and the generosity of our donors. Events Click here to see events happening in the life of the GSSW and Baylor as well around the field of social work. Research Research that addresses both human crises and long-term, complex social problems locally and globally. GSSW Podcast: So Far So Good Welcome to So Far, So Good from Baylor University's Diana R. Garland School of Social Work...a podcast to model anti-oppressive engagement and critical self-reflection, hosted by Kerri Fisher & Kayla Mize. So what does that name mean? It represents how far we all are from becoming completely anti-oppressive but also how good it is to take even small steps toward inner work and systemic change. It also is an acknowledgment of how far outside our own experiences art can take us and how good it is to take in the stories of others. Engaging diversity one story at a time! Listen Here Check out Our Admissions Events Interested in learning more about joining the Garland School of Social Work? Click the link below to see what recruitment and admissions events we have coming up soon. Learn more Center for Church and Community Impact (C3i) At the Center for Church and Community Impact (C3I), we aim to discover how the invisible struggles of our lives such as but not limited to stress, mental health concerns, trauma, loneliness, and addiction affect our communities and the congregations serving them. Learn more Advocacy in Action Blog Be sure to check out our Advocacy in Action blog to learn more about what it means to work in social work, to be a social worker and the benefits of a Baylor social work degree! Read the blog News More News Mar. 18, 2022 As burnout reaches a new high, faculty member’s new book asks, "Who is helping the helpers?" WACO, Texas – In her new book, The Soul of the Helper, Holly Oxhandler, PhD, LMSW, combines solid research with practical application to show how giving attention to both our mental and spiritual health can lead to greater healing. Oxhandler, associate professor and associate dean for research and faculty development at Baylor University’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, focuses specifically on the needs of those in helping positions (parents, pastors, teachers, healthcare workers, caregivers...), who are currently experiencing alarming levels of burnout due to the stress of the pandemic. Read More Feb. 9, 2022 Healthy Bonds for Black Fathers-in-law, Sons-in-law What does a healthy relationship look like for a Black son-in-law and his father-in-law? A study aims to answer that question and was published in “Psychology of Men & Masculinities” by University of Maryland School of Social Work’s (UMSSW) Assistant Professor Ericka M. Lewis, PhD, MSW, with Professor Michael E. Woolley, PhD, MSW, and Baylor University Assistant Professor Brianna P. Lemmons, PhD, MSW. Studies on in-laws are far and few between, less so for male in-law relationships, and even less so for Black male in-laws, Woolley said. This study is a way to lift Black voices and examine those roles. Read More Jan. 19, 2022 Social work professors to assess religion and spirituality competencies in mental health graduate education Drs. Holly Oxhandler and Clay Polson, associate professors in the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work at Baylor University, have been awarded an $843,647 grant from the John Templeton Foundation as a subaward through the University of South Alabama. Oxhandler and Polson are serving as co-investigators of the overall Spiritual and Religious Competencies Project, and are leading one of the team’s four sub-projects. Specifically, the two are seeking to understand faculty views, behaviors and needs regarding graduate education training in religious and spiritual competencies in an effort to better serve those seeking mental health treatment. Read More Nov. 30, 2021 GSSW alumna selected for 2021 Adoption Excellence Award Dr. Bonni Goodwin, a graduate of the GSSW PhD program, was recently selected to receive the 2021 Adoption Excellence Award by the Children’s Bureau for her work and research in adoption. Dr. Goodwin graduated from Baylor with her PhD in December 2020. Before her time at the GSSW, she was working with an adoption agency in Oklahoma. It was there she realized several ways in which the field of adoption could be improved. Read More Success Stories More Stories Military veteran and Baylor alumna Crystal Brown is shining her Baylor light via social work in a way she never expected—in the field of nephrology. Meet Crystal Brown Nataly chose social work because of her strong passion for community building as well as her goal to fight human trafficking Meet Nataly Sanchez She didn't know what doors social work could open for her, especially with the emphasis on neighborhood engagement and community partnerships. Meet Samantha Nelms Events More Events There are no events for the date(s) selected. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678