Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share Prizes & Awards The Sociology Department has several awards for graduating seniors, most of which come with a cash prize. Awards are determined by consensus of the department faculty at the end of each spring term. 2021 Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners The Ralph P. Holben Prize Established by Mrs. Ralph P. Holben, is given each year to the senior major in the Department who showed the greatest promise in the general field of applied sociology, this being the area to which Professor Holben devoted some forty years of teaching at Dartmouth. THE MECKLIN PRIZE Established by Mrs. John M. Mecklin (Mrs. Theodore W. Gorden) of Hanover, is awarded each year to a student majoring in sociology that is judged by the Department as having demonstrated to an outstanding degree the high intellectual standards of originality and vigor that characterized Professor Mecklin's academic career as professor of Sociology at Dartmouth. THE TRUXAL PRIZE Established by an anonymous donor in amounts up to $2,000 to be awarded to the most promising graduating senior who is pursuing graduate work, preferably in Sociology although other areas are also eligible. Sociology majors who have graduated recently are also eligible. Professor Truxal was an esteemed member of the Department and later President of Hood College. THE SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT AWARD FOR OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT Established by the Sociology Department in 2003 to be presented to the graduating senior with the highest academic achievement. THE SOCIOLOGICAL IMAGINATION AWARD Established by the Sociology Department in 2005 to be presented to those students who have exhibited a strong grasp of the sociological imagination and who use that understanding to promote social justice in everyday life. CERTIFICATES OF DISTINCTION Established by the Sociology Department in 2000 to be presented to students in recognition of their high academic achievement. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback