Skip to content About Directory News Events Search Keyword search term Search Apply Request More Info Make a Gift School of Social Work Admissions Admissions Apply BSW Admissions MSW Admissions PhD Admissions Explore Illinois The SSW Experience Why Social Work? Beyond the Classroom Career Paths Costs and Financial Aid Scholarships Assistantships and Hourly Positions Fellowships Scholar Programs Connect with Admissions Request More Info Graduate Contact Forms Schedule a Visit Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Social Work iBSW Program Fast App: BSW > MSW Undergraduate Minor in Social Work Undergraduate Resources BSW Advising Graduate Programs Master of Social Work Concentrations & Focus Areas On-Campus MSW iMSW Program Options PhD in Social Work Graduate Resources Scholar Programs DCFS Scholarship Program HEALS-Healthcare Education and Leadership Scholars Program IL BHWELL HRSA Scholars Program Project Ti-3 James Scholar Honors Program Field Education BSW Field Placement MSW Field Placement Study Abroad Fund for Field Faculty and Research Faculty and Research Research Research Areas Active Faculty Research and Grants Social Work Research Office Resources Research Reports News Research-Focused Webinars Student Research Opportunities Undergraduate Research Opportunities Centers and Research Teams Children and Family Research Center Center for Prevention Research and Development Identifying Depression through Early Assessment (IDEA) Community Partnerships Community Partnerships Student-Focused Partnerships Field Education Partners Community Learning Lab BHWELL HEALS Agency-Based Partnerships Child Welfare Office of Workforce Development Provider Assistance and Training Hub (PATH) Community Engagement C-U Community Resource Guide Elevating Voices: Visualizing Social Justice Through Art Short-Term Guardianship Options During COVID-19 and Beyond Community Impact Report Stories of Impact Professional Development Professional Development Licensure Professional Educator License for School Social Work LSW/LCSW Exam Preparation Training Continuing Education Classes & Webinars Recorded Trainings Careers Join Our Team Community Job Board Career Services and Resources Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Community Engagement Advisory Board Alumni Awards Stay in Touch Alumni News Update and Connect Giving The Impact of Giving Make a Gift About Directory News Events Apply Request More Info Make a Gift Keyword search term Search BE AN AGENT OF CHANGE A degree in social work is just the beginning of your endless potential to shape our world. Find your program BE AN AGENT OF CHANGE A degree in social work is just the beginning of your endless potential to shape our world. Find your program Join a community of passionate people who impact lives, influence policy, fight injustice, and develop evidence-based solutions to our biggest social challenges. Why Social Work? Here are our stories–what will yours be? Story A Man on a Mission Simon Mwima , PhD student Story Assisting Lives Impacted by Conflict and Disaster Bruna Cardoso Lopez, Social Work Field Placement Coordinator Story A "Perfect Fit" Brandie Bentley , PhD Candidate Story Continuously Ask Yourself Who You Want To Be Araceli Carbajal, BSW '20, MSW Student More stories Why Choose Illinois? Simply put, we transform lives. Of students. Of children. Of communities. It starts in the classroom. It continues in the field. And it reaches the most marginalized of society. If you are committed to transforming lives, including your own, join us at Illinois. Your program is tailored to what matters to you, with multiple concentrations and certificates, flexible degree options, research opportunities and experience in the field. Academics You'll be supported in small classes all housed in a single building, and one-on-one relationships with award-winning faculty. Our Community You'll feel prepared for your next career move, with block placement for field internships, over 90% job placement rate, and continuing education after you graduate. Career Paths What will your impact be? Take the next step in your journey to making a difference. Undergraduate Minor BSW MSW & iMSW Online/Hybrid Post-MSW PEL Program PhD Continuing Education The Latest from the School of Social Work News See all news Students, Alumni, Professional Development PEL and MSW/iMSW Program Informational Sessions May 10, 2022 Students, Faculty & Staff, Research, Alumni, Community Impact, Professional Development Illinois Mental Health and Trauma Informed May Awareness Campaign April 14, 2022 Faculty & Staff, Research Study Examines Impact of DNA Evidence in Sexual Assault Prosecutions April 08, 2022 Faculty & Staff, Research, Community Impact Project Helps East St. Louis Residents Overcome Barriers to COVID-19 Testing, Vaccination March 11, 2022 Events See all events This is more than a career – it's a calling. Apply today School of Social Work 1010 W. Nevada Street Urbana, IL 61801 socialwork@illinois.edu (217) 333-2261 © 2022 University of Illinois School of Social Work Privacy Policy | Diversity, Equity and Inclusion | Title IX | Cookie Policy | Accreditation & Learning Outcomes Apply Request More Info Schedule a Visit Contact Us For Current Faculty & Staff Student Resources © 2022 University of Illinois School of Social Work Privacy Policy | Diversity, Equity and Inclusion | Title IX | Cookie Policy | Accreditation & Learning Outcomes Cookie Settings