Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Research » Contact the Office of the Associate Dean for Research Contact the Office of the Associate Dean for Research Below please find the contact information of our office’s staff. For detailed information, guidance and procedures related to all phases of your sponsored research project, please visit the OADR Wiki space. Visit the OADR Wiki space Office of the ADR Team Reset Search Catherine Cubbin, Ph.D. Catherine Cubbin, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Research, Clara Pope Willoughby Centennial Professor in Community Safety View Details Social Work Building (SSW) Room:3.208GA Phone:512-232-0625 Email:ccubbin@austin.utexas.edu Gus Gallegos Gus Gallegos Grants and Contracts SpecialistView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Email:gustavo.gallegos@austin.utexas.edu Kristan Gannaway Kristan Gannaway Pre-award SpecialistView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Email:kristan.gannaway@austin.utexas.edu Carol M. Lewis, Ph.D. Carol M. Lewis, Ph.D. Executive Director, Office of the Associate Dean for Research; Adjunct Assistant ProfessorView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Room:3.208F Phone:512-471-9219 Email:carolmarie@austin.utexas.edu Nate Marti, Ph.D. Nate Marti, Ph.D. Statistical ConsultantView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Email:nate.marti@utexas.edu Kristin Organ Kristin Organ Assistant to Associate Dean for ResearchView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Room:3.208E Phone:512-471-4618 Email:kristin.organ@austin.utexas.edu Karen Pate Karen Pate Human Resources CoordinatorView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Room:3.208D Phone:512-471-8267 Email:karen.pate@austin.utexas.edu Lana Pettit Lana Pettit Executive AssistantView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Room:3.208A Phone:512-471-0561 Email:llpettit@austin.utexas.edu Ezra Rebollar Ezra Rebollar Accounts Payable SpecialistView Details Email:ezrarebollar3@austin.utexas.edu Nicole van Heijningen Nicole van Heijningen Graduate AssistantView Details Social Work Building (SSW) Email:nicole.vanheijningen@austin.utexas.edu Aubrey Vinklarek Aubrey Vinklarek Senior Pre-award SpecialistView Details Email:aubrey.vinklarek@austin.utexas.edu Steve Hicks School of Social Work Office of the Associate Dean for Research The University of Texas at Austin 1925 San Jacinto Blvd. Stop D3510 Austin, TX 78712-0359 512-471-0561 Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved