Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Current Students BSW BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW PhD Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's Spring 2020 Undergraduate Pass/Fail Policy Students should familiarize themselves with the official policy and FAQs provided by the university regarding the undergraduate pass/fail option for Spring 2020 courses. This Garland School FAQ does not replace that of the university; rather, it specifies how the university's policy has particular impact on GPA and course grade requirements that are particular to the Garland School. Frequently Asked Questions Q: I have just been accepted into the social work major. What happens if I take a "pass" in the SWO 2321 course? A: Students who have a grade of C or higher, or a "pass" for SWO 2321 taken in the Spring 2020 semester, will have met that element of eligibility for the major. Q: I have just been accepted into the social work major. How is the 2.7 GPA requirement impacted by taking a "pass" or "fail" on one of my Spring 2020 courses? A: Students should consider the impact of a "pass" or "fail" grade on their overall GPA. As noted in the policy & FAQs (see links above), pass/fail grades do not calculate into a student's GPA. Thus, students should consider the GPA impact (positive or negative) of a letter grade in any given course, vs a pass/fail grade (no GPA impact). Garland School administration will run final GPAs once the pass/fail window has passed, and use those final GPAs to determine eligibility to continue into the major. Q: I am in a social work class that requires a B or higher to move forward in the major and be accepted into a field internship. What happens if I convert my letter grade to "pass" in one of those courses? A: Students who have a grade of B or higher, or a "pass" for social work taken in the Spring 2020 semester (including SWO 4372 and 4373), will have met that course's element of eligibility for forward progression in the major, including progression into the field component of the BSW degree plan. Q: I am currently in my field internship seminar (SWO 4492) which requires a B or higher to complete the course and graduate. What happens if I take a "pass" in my field seminar? A: Students who have a grade of B or higher, or a "pass" for SWO 4492 taken in the Spring 2020 semester, will have met the requirement for completing 4492 as part of BSW degree. Q: Will converting a social work course to a "pass" impact my eligibility for automatic admission to the Garland School's 5th-year MSW program? A: The MSW catalog states the policy that "students admitted into the combined BSW/MSW program are admitted upon successful completion of the BSW from Baylor University with at least a 3.0 overall GPA, a B in every social work course, and the recommendation of the Field (SWO 4492) faculty." While it will not automatically disqualify students from entering the Garland School's MSW program, students who select a "pass/fail" grade for a SWO-prefix course in the Spring 2020 semester will receive an additional layer of review for graduate admission. Seniors who have already been accepted for Fall 2020 5th-year automatic admission will receive an additional layer of administrative review if their transcripts show any Spring 2020 SWO courses that are not a B or higher, or a GPA that falls under 3.0. The Associate Dean for Academic Affairs will write these students to notify them of whether or not their admissions status has been confirmed/maintained. All other BSW students hoping for automatic 5th year admission later than Fall 2020 that do not have a B or higher on all SWO-prefix courses or a GPA of 3.0 or higher will complete an expedited application for admission (directions will come from the admissions team at the appropriate time). Note: Required courses for the social work major that do not have a SWO-prefix (i.e. economics, neuroscience, etc) are not part of the "B in every social work course" requirement. A grade of "pass" for Spring 2020 in a course that does not have a SWO-prefix will count as completion of that requirement of the BSW degree plan. Q: I was approved to take online classes in the Fall 2020 semester. Will I have the option to convert the grades I receive in those classes to Pass/Fail? A: The University’s Spring 2020 Undergraduate Pass/Fail Policy does not apply to Fall 2020 classes. Only students who elected to enroll pass/fail in a Fall 2020 course, with approval from the Dean, are eligible to receive a pass/fail grade in a course. This is in accordance with the Pass/Fail Registration Policy in the Undergraduate Course Catalog. The Garland School of Social Work cannot answer questions about how "pass/fail" grades will impact admissions at other universities. Students interested in other MSW programs should consult with those programs directly. For consultation about the pass/fail option specific to the BSW major, please contact Rachel_Garcia@baylor.edu as the BSW Program Manager, Luci_Hoppe@baylor.edu as the BSW Program Director, or Melody_Zuniga@baylor.edu as the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Current Students BSW BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678