Skip to main content Department of Sociology College of Liberal Arts Home Welcome The Department of Sociology at Texas A&M University offers a quality undergraduate education, recognized as one of the nation’s leading programs in the field by the American Sociological Association. The department offers a broad-based curriculum with excellent opportunities for training in various areas of faculty expertise and research. Overview About Us Our Mission Brief History Dismantling Racism Diversity Aggie Ally Step In. Stand Up. Committee Appointments Excellence Fund Form to Add/Update Profile News Sociology Colloquium Series Gemeinschaft News News Posts Calendar Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Videos Featured Sociology Videos Contact Us Department of Sociology 311 Academic Building College Station, TX 77843-4351 Administration 311 Academic Building Tel: (979) 845-5133 Fax: (979) 862-4057 Advising 107 Academic Building Tel: (979) 845-5144 People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Retired Faculty In Memoriam Leadership Staff Business Hub and IT Aggie Ally PhD Job Candidates Graduate Students Former Students Form to Add/Update Profile Undergraduate What is Sociology? Sociology Major Requirements Sociology Minor Requirements Undergraduate Course Catalog Academic Advising Careers Internships Study Abroad Honors Program Student Organizations Awards, Research, and Directed Studies Prospective and New Students Graduate Sociology Program Crime, Law and Deviance Culture Demography Organizational, Political and Economic Sociology Race, Class and Gender Social Psychology Graduate Course Catalog Handbook and Coursework Application and Admissions Certificates Funding Forms Quantitative Methods Series Video about Professional Development Programs External Fellowships Student Awards Howard B. Kaplan Memorial Assistantship Ruth C. Schaffer Award Dr. Jane Sell Graduate Fellowship Intranet: Office Hours Placement of Former Students Research Undergraduate Research Description of NSF REU Program Applications Projects and Faculty Contact Us Race and Ethnic Studies Institute (RESI) Kaplan Laboratory (KLAMS) Study Timeline and Surveys Graduate Student Opportunities KLAMS News Funding In Memoriam Texas Research Data Center (TXRDC) Social Psychology Laboratory Material Related Publications Tribute to Stuart J. Hysom Videos about Research Projects Resources Administrative Bylaws of the Department of Sociology Guidelines for the Evaluation of Faculty Guidelines for Faculty Appointments, Tenure and Promotion Request Permission to Enroll in Graduate Class Form Request Reservation of Academic Building Form Travel and Leave Form Instructional Data DataCounts Local Labs Module on Climate Change SDA: Survey Documentation and Analysis US2010 World Health Organization Foundations Ford Foundation Hewlett Foundation National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Science Foundation (NSF) Rockefeller Foundation Spencer Foundation Texas A&M Links Academic Calendar College of Liberal Arts Financial Aid Graduate Admissions Human Resources IT and Web Accessibility Office of Graduate Studies Travel Information Associations American Sociological Association (ASA) Association of Black Sociologists (ABS) Population Association of America (PAA) Society for the Study of Social Problems (SSSP) Sociologists for Women in Society (SWS) Southern Demographic Association (SDA) Southern Sociological Society (SSS) Southwestern Social Science Association (SSSA) Journals American Sociological Review (ASR) American Journal of Sociology (AJS) Annual Review of Sociology (ARS) Contemporary Sociology (CS) Journal of Contemporary Ethnography (JCE) Journal of Health and Social Behavior (JHSB) Qualitative Inquiry (QI) Qualitative Sociology (QS) Social Forces (SF) Social Problems (SP) Social Psychology Quarterly (SPQ) Social Science Quarterly (SSQ) Sociological Forum Sociological Methodology (SM) Symbolic Interaction (SI) The Sociological Quarterly (TSQ) In Solidarity and Support of Black Lives coming soon The Department of Sociology is becoming part of the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. Learn more about the College of Arts and Sciences. Dissertation Defended, Dr. Shih-Keng Yen Posted May 26, 2022 Please join us in congratulating Dr. Shih-Keng Yen who defended his dissertation titled “Social Dynamics of Geographic Mobility.” Dr. Ernesto Amaral served as Shih-Keng’s mentor, the committee included Dr. Arthur Sakamoto, Dr. Pat Rubio Goldsmith, and Dr. Oi-Man Kwok (from the Department of Educational Psychology). Dr. Yen’s dissertation examines the dynamics of social factors in […] Dr. Chaitanya Lakkimsetti on Rethinking How We Perceive Sexual Labour Posted May 21, 2022 Dr. Chaitanya Lakkimsetti, sociologist, is in conversation with Shrishti Malhotra, producer at The Swaddle, on how the AIDS epidemic changed the Indian state’s relationship with sex workers, and the problems with the moral panic around dance bars in Maharashtra. On The Swaddle website On Instagram Dissertation Defended, Dr. Andrew McNeely Posted May 20, 2022 Please join me in congratulating Dr. Andrew McNeely in his successful defense of his dissertation “Over-Churched, Under-Fed: The Culture of Religiously-Affiliated Food Pantries in Brazos County, TX”. Andrew was mentored by Dr. Sarah Gatson, committee members include Dr. Joseph Jewell, Dr. Rob Mackin, Dr. Christopher Quick (Veterinary Physiology and Pharmacology), and Dr. Robin Veldman (Religious […] Sociology Colloquium, 4/13/2022 Posted April 13, 2022 The Silicon Valley Syndrome Olav Sorenson, UCLA How does expansion in the high-tech sector influence the broader economy of a region? We demonstrate that an infusion of venture capital in a region leads to: (i) declines in the number of establishments and in employment in non–high-tech industries in the tradable sector; (ii) increases in entry […] More News Upcoming Events Tweets by TAMUSoc Departments Anthropology Communication Economics English Hispanic Studies History International Studies Performance Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychological and Brain Sciences Sociology Centers and Institutes Texas Research Data Center Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation Center for the Study of First Americans Glasscock Center for Humanities Research Center of Digital Humanities Research Public Policy Research Institute Race and Ethnic Studies Institute Programs Africana Studies Latino/a and Mexican American Studies Religious Studies Women's and Gender Studies Developing Initiatives Center for Research Impact of Social Sciences Connect with us! Department of Sociology (979) 845-5133 2022 College of Liberal Arts at Texas A&M University Contacts Accessibility Site Policies