Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Field Educators Search for: Welcome to Field Education Train the next generation of social work practitioners. Field education at CSSW plays an important role in helping students put into practice what is taught in the classroom. The hands-on guidance you provide to students in the community creates a lasting impact on your organization and their education. If you are currently a field educator or are thinking about partnering with us, the information here will help you to learn more about our program. Contents Benefits of Hosting Students Seminars in Field Instruction (SIFI) Annual Placement Planning Fair Benefits of Hosting Students As you think back to your graduate school experience, your field education practicum may have been the most influential part of your professional development. By hosting our MSW students, you can pass on your expertise while you partner with a top-ranked MSW program. We offer field instructors: An academic appointment as a Columbia lecturer. A 50% tuition discount through our reduced residency program. Access to our online library. Field instructors/advisors supervising a CSSW student during the current academic year will receive a discount on most CE courses. Email swope@columbia.edu for additional information. Ready to Partner? Read our FAQ. Contact one of our directors. Interview a student. Request and sign an affiliate agreement. Fill-out the field placement request form. New to hosting students? Go to Frequently Asked Questions. Helpful Links: Field Education Manual Academic Calendar Student Handbook SIFI Education Plan Process Recording Handbook Seminars in Field Instruction (SIFI) Seminar in Field Instruction (SIFI) assists new field instructors with mastering the best teaching techniques for imparting the skills social workers need to achieve competency in particular social work methods. The seminar lasts either three weeks or 12 weeks and is typically held twice a year, in fall and spring. Continuing Education Credits will be awarded for NYS, NJ and CT licensed social workers. Licensed social workers for other states, please email swope@columbia.edu. Columbia University School of Social Work is a CSWE accredited institution. For more information on the general and CE requirements, please see: 12 Sessions Abbreviated 3 Sessions More information and registration Questions? Please contact Ericka Echavarria at 212-851-2396 or eme2116@columbia.edu. Annual Placement Planning Fair The Annual Placement Planning Fair is a full-day annual event in early February. It offers students in the first year of CSSW’s Two-Year Program an opportunity to explore field placements for their second year, which begins in the fall semester of the next academic year. Agencies are invited to participate via an email sent out in December, and those interested in recruiting our students for internships can participate by hosting an information table. Questions? Please contact the Associate/Assistant Director responsible for managing the Field of Practice in which your agency is grouped. For New Jersey placements, please contact Assistant Director James Singletary at 212-851-2251 or js2864@columbia.edu About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT