Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Faculty & Staff Resources » Human Resources Human Resources Helpful Links Handbook of Operating Procedures General Workday Login to Workday to update your contact information, complete time-sheets, see pay stubs, W2 forms and more. Campus Climate Response Team This university-wide team addresses bias incidents in an effort to advance an inclusive and diverse campus culture. Visit the CCRT site for information and to access an online bias incident reporting form. Title IX Office The Title IX Office provides support around Title IX regulations and implements best practices for preventing sex discrimination and gender-based violence at the university. You can report incidents of sex discrimination on their website. Steve Hicks School committee assignments This pdf document details Steve Hicks School committees and their members. Employee of the quarter Use this Qualtrics form to submit your nomination for the Steve Hicks School of Social Work’s Employee of the Quarter. Please read the eligibility requirements that precede the form Resources and policies for staff New employees See this checklist from Human Resources with all items to take care during your first month on the job. Recruitment and promotion The dean, through consultation with the program directors, assistant to the dean and chief business officer, makes all decisions on available classified staff positions within the school. See Policy memorandum 5.1030-PM (promotion and recruitment) and Policy memorandum 5.1020-PM (recruiting procedures) Overtime Overtime work is available only under certain circumstances and must be pre-approved by the supervisor and the dean. Extra time may be accrued as compensatory time, see policy 5.4010 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Breaks Policy 5.2120 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures addresses employees’ breaks and rest periods. Leave policy Staff members must request permission from their supervisors to take vacation time, floating holiday, accrued compensatory time, jury duty, or military leave. For details on vacation and leave policy, see policy 5-4110 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Sick leave See policy 5-4210 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures Taking coursework during the day See policy 5.2140 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Longevity pay See policy 5-3130 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Staff request for outside employment Whether remunerative or not, shall not conflict with or compromise the primary obligations the employee has to the university. See policy 5-2270 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Complete the interactive form (Human Resources website), print and bring it to the Dean’s Office. Political activities The university affirms the right of a member of the staff to participate in political activities so long as such political activities do not interfere with the discharge of the duties and responsibilities that he/she owes to The University of Texas at Austin, and so long as such political activity does not involve The University of Texas at Austin in partisan politics. See policy 9.87 in the Handbook of Operating Procedures. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved