Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Research » Services to Researchers Services to Researchers Services to Researchers The Office of the Associate Dean for Research ensures that proposals and projects comply with sponsor, state, and federal guidelines, internal policies as well as university and school requirements. We encourage researchers to contact us as soon as they decide to submit a proposal or contract. For detailed and updated information, guidance and procedures related to both the pre-award and post-award phases of your sponsored research project, please visit the OADR Wiki space. Access the OADR Wiki space Pre-award Grant and Contract Services Preparing and submitting proposals Facilitate peer review by an external reviewer. See peer-review process diagram and guidelines. Meet with principal investigator (PI) to review sponsor guidelines, university and external submission requirements, and to establish timeline for submitting to the university’s Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) for approval. Prepare budgets and budget justifications that comply with sponsor and OSP policies. Prepare proposal application forms and assemble “boilerplate” language to sponsor specifications. Coordinate receipt of application materials from collaborators and subcontractors. Submit proposal or contract to OSP, and serve as liaison between OSP and PI. Submit proposal or contract to sponsor, and serve as administrative liaison between PI and sponsor while decision is pending Post-Award Services Accounts and expenditures Meet with PI upon award to review budget as well as purchasing, hiring, and travel procedures and requirements. Work with UT Austin Sponsored Projects Awards Administration (SPAA) on orders, travel requests, vouchers, cash advances, payments for services, and ProCard purchases. Provide financial reports to PI. Provide financial reports to funding agencies. Maintain book-keeping and monthly account reconciliation for all OADR accounts and sponsored projects. Prepare year-end account statements for the university. Personnel Assist PI with recruiting and hiring personnel, and assist new hires with personnel forms, keys, and space. Read the Research Space Allocation Policy by clicking here. Make new and renewing personnel appointments. Prepare bi-annual project personnel certifications as required by university policy. Institutional Review Board (IRB) support Assist faculty with submitting IRB applications, continuing renewals, and amendments. Coordinate IRB proposal review with the Department Review Committee. Assist faculty and new personnel with filing their human subjects certification. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved