Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Student Experience > Student Support Services > Career Services and Leadership Management Search for: Career Services and Leadership Management The Office of Career Services and Leadership Management helps students and alumni lead meaningful and impactful careers in the social sector by providing tailored guidance and support at every stage of their professional journey. The services, which extend beyond graduation, include individual career counseling, career and professional development workshops, recruitment and networking events, information on licensing and certification, and access to job opportunities and a wide array of tools and resources to enhance students’ educational and professional experience. CAREER CONNECT, Online Jobs Database: Career Connect for Students Career Connect for Alumni Career Connect for Employers Individual Career Counseling The Office offers individual 30-minute career counseling and coaching services to students both by appointment and during weekly drop-in hours (Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays from 1:00 to 2:00 pm). Any student can make an appointment online using the school’s exclusive career management system, Career Connect, which also serves as a virtual job board, event registration tool, and resource database. Appointments can be arranged in person, over the phone, or virtually via Zoom. Drop-in appointments are on a first-come, first-served basis in Room 525 and 526. Discussions may cover a variety of topics, from assessing strengths, interests, and goals, exploring different career paths, developing branding materials such as resumes, cover letters, and LinkedIn profiles, job searching, networking, interviewing, negotiating offers, getting licensed, and creating and implementing a strategic plan to remain marketable and successful in today’s competitive workforce. Workshops In addition to providing one-one-one support, the Office leads workshops and webinars addressing a range of popular topics such as resume writing, navigating the job search, interviewing, networking, and getting licensed. Many of the workshops are live-streamed. Career Talks and Panels To help expand students’ knowledge of the field and career options, the Office coordinates career talks and panels with alumni and professionals in the field. These events present key opportunities to learn more about both traditional and non-traditional career paths that students may pursue after graduation, as well as insights on gaining entry into the respective fields. Networking with Alumni Networking is an essential aspect of career and professional development that involves developing new connections to gather and share career-related information, advice, and support. It is one of the best ways to gain insider knowledge about different roles and organizations and to tap into the hidden job market. To facilitate networking with CSSW alumni, the Office collaborates with the Office of Alumni Relations to organize special programs, such as the Annual Networking Night at the Columbia Club. Students also have access to the alumni directory and LinkedIn group to connect with the larger CSSW community. On-Campus Recruitment Employers actively seek CSSW talent. The Office partners with recruiters to host exclusive on-campus information sessions throughout the year. Sessions typically include an overview of the organization’s mission, goals, and culture, employment opportunities available immediately or in the future, and hiring processes, followed by a Q&A. Students are strongly encouraged to attend to network with recruiters, learn about different organizations and career paths, and gain insight into qualities they seek in candidates. Job Fairs Job Fairs provide additional opportunities for students to make personal connections with recruiters and learn more about different organizations and career paths. Each Spring, in collaboration with a consortium of graduate schools of social work in the Metropolitan New York area, the Office co-hosts the Master’s Level Social Work Job Fair. More than 80 employers typically participate in the event. Students are also invited to fairs hosted by partner schools and organizations, including Mailman School of Public Health’s Career Day, Teacher’s College’s Education Career Fair, and Baruch College’s Social Impact Career Fair. Job Listings Students and alumni can view and apply to various opportunities targeting the CSSW community on the school’s exclusive career management system, Career Connect. Opportunities include part-time and full-time jobs, fellowships, summer internships, and volunteer work. All students are provided an account at the start of the program and have continued access after graduation. E-Newsletter The Office distributes a weekly e-newsletter to all students and alumni (who opt-in) to share important announcements, information on upcoming events on and off-campus, student and alumni career achievements, employment, professional development, and leadership opportunities, and additional career-related information. Students are encouraged to review the enews, as well as regular email communications, to stay up-to-date on various resources and opportunities made available. Relevant information and updates are also posted on the Career Services Blog Site. Resources Extensive career material including tip sheets, templates, guides, job search links, and professional development and networking resources are available in the Document Library within Career Connect, as well as on the Career Services Blog Site. Students also have free access to GoinGlobal and Impactpool, which provide additional information and resources on opportunities nationwide and abroad. Used in conjunction with other support services, they can be powerful tools for career development and planning. Professional Licensing and Certification The Office maintains current information on licensing and certification of social workers and works closely with the Office of Student Services to facilitate the respective processes pre and post-graduation. For more information, visit the Licensing page. For information regarding licensure and certification requirements, which vary from state to state, please visit our Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Requirements page. Tomomi C. Uetani, Director Rooms 525 Rawlisha Peña, Assistant Director Rooms 526 LOCATION 5th Floor COUNSELING By appointment: 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Online scheduling for Students Online scheduling for Alumni QUICK LINKS ASWB Licensure Exam Pass Rate MSW Employment Outcomes Data QUESTIONS? CONTACT US: Email: swcareer@columbia.edu About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT