Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Debate Team Wins Second Consecutive National Championship Posted on April 14, 2022 by Aimee Minbiole News subtitle Tyler Vergho and Arvind Shankar, both ’23s, edged out a University of Michigan team. Image Image Students react to the announcement that Dartmouth debaters had won the championship. (Photo by Jacob Wilkus/YouTube) Body For the second year running, the Dartmouth Forensic Union has won the National Debate Tournament. Tyler Vergho and Arvind Shankar, both ’23s, defeated opponents from the University of Michigan in the annual competition, held in hybrid fashion earlier this month. It’s the first time Dartmouth’s debate team has won the tournament—the national championship for college policy debate—in consecutive years, says John Turner ’03, director of the Dartmouth Forensic Union. It’s also the first time any student has won back-to-back national championships debating with two different partners. Vergho and Raam Tambe ’21 prevailed in the 2021 tournament, which was held online. Throughout the season, teams prepare and present arguments on various aspects of a given topic. “The entire team works hard producing in-depth research throughout the year, often dedicating 30 hours a week to the effort,” Turner says. “In particular, all of the participating debaters spent their spring break working in the DFU for 12 to 14 hours per day.” Quote The people on the team are my closest friends, and I’m very glad to have gone through all of this with them. Attribution Arvind Shankar ’23 In addition to Vergho and Shankar, two other students also competed in the tournament. Holland Bald and Gabe Chang-Deutsch, both ’25s, were the first first-year students from Dartmouth to be ranked among the top 16 teams during the regular season, earning them an automatic bid to the championship. This year’s subject was the expansion of U.S. antitrust laws. In accordance with the regulations, students speak at breakneck speed—up to 350 words a minute. In the runup to the final round, teams switch sides in each debate. In the final round, the winners of a coin toss—in this case, the Dartmouth team—get to choose their side. Vergho and Shankar argued that airline alliances should not be immunized from antitrust scrutiny under a public interest standard but instead should be periodically reviewed under a consumer welfare standard. In addition to learning more than he ever expected to about antitrust law, this year he also acquired the work ethic, discipline, and determination it takes to be a nationally competitive debater, says Shankar, a member of South House. He jumped around the room in celebration when judges announced the Dartmouth team had won. But what Shankar likes best about belonging to the Forensic Union are the friendships and community he’s been able to build, the government and sociology major says. “The people on the team are my closest friends, and I’m very glad to have gone through all of this with them.” The win—Dartmouth’s eighth—boosted the team into second place for the all-time number of National Debate Tournament victories, breaking a tie with Harvard. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback