Skip to main content Request Information Start your application Search Submit Home Program Pathways Two-Year Advanced Standing Part-Time to Full-Time (Extended) One-Year Residency for Working Professionals (Reduced Residency) Transfer Specializations Field Education Curriculum Admission Tuition & Financial Aid Faculty About FAQ Request Information Start Your Application Online MS in Social Work Program An Education Designed for Change Agents Download Brochure or Choose Your Pathway Online MSW Two-Year Online MSW Advanced Standing Online MSW Part-Time to Full-Time (Extended) Online MSW One-Year Residency for Working Professionals (Reduced Residency) Online MSW Transfer Be ready to be challenged. For more than a century, the Columbia School of Social Work has led a transformation in how we study, teach, and practice social work. We have never been content with the status quo, and our willingness to embrace new approaches has kept us at the forefront of social work education and research. Columbia’s Master of Science in Social Work is one of the oldest and most esteemed MSW programs in the world. Columbia students have unparalleled access to rigorous training, innovative teaching, and proven methods to transform lives and lead society forward. Our Online Campus option combines all the benefits of the MSW program within an award-winning online experience. “Students should consider the Columbia School of Social Work because we will treat you as a whole person. You will be really prepared to enter this market as a 21st-century scholar.” Desmond Upton Patton, Professor and Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs and Curriculum Innovation 100% online coursework with majority synchronous classes Field placement sites available across the United States 5 degree pathways, including Advanced Standing Choose from 4 method specializations and 2 fields of practice See our next start dates Columbia University Online MSW Program Benefits Proven methods with real-world impact. This is a degree where research meets clinical practice, where evidence-based decisions are balanced with individual needs, and where a multitude of perspectives converge to solve complex social justice problems. World-changing research led by exceptional faculty. Participate in real-time classes taught by some of the most compelling voices in the social work world; their research has examined the relationship between gang violence and social media, the effects of racism on health, responses to the opioid epidemic, new frontiers in clinical interventions, innovations in poverty alleviation, and the nuances of prolonged grief. A Columbia education, anywhere. Our Online Campus expands access to our world-class education and New York City connections. Online students can attend events hosted by influential scholars, conduct research with our 16 research centers and programs, and participate in nearly 30 student caucuses, no matter where they live in the United States. They are also able to complete field placements near their home with full support from our Field Education Department. Steadfast advocacy. We are a community united by unwavering commitment to justice, human rights, and respect for diversity. By understanding the structures that can constrict society, we are empowered to dismantle them. Our faculty, staff, and students are dedicated to non-oppressive practices, both within the MSW program and in professional service. 98% Nearly all Columbia students are employed (96%) or pursuing further education (2%) within one year of graduation. Source: 2019 MSW Degree Recipients Career Outcomes 25% Social workers with a master’s degree make 25% more than those with a bachelor’s degree alone. Columbia graduates earn a median salary that’s 8% higher than social workers overall. Source: Burning Glass Technologies: Labor Insight, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Request information To learn more about the Master of Science in Social Work from the Columbia School of Social Work, please fill out the fields below to download a brochure. You can also contact an admissions counselor directly at (866) 627-4750. * All Fields are Required. Your Privacy is Protected. The PROP Framework A guiding principle of the School of Social Work and the MSW program is PROP, which addresses the ways that power, race, oppression, and privilege shape our world and our responses to it. This framework is rooted in helping students understand that anti-Black racism and white supremacy are endemic in our systems and institutions. Students become more mindful, self-aware practitioners who are empowered to challenge stagnant ideas and create meaningful change. Choose the Online MSW Degree That Works Best for You The Columbia University online master of social work degree options accommodate students at all levels of experience — from recent graduates and career changers to social work professionals who want to deepen their commitment to serving others. Choose from five different pathways: Two-Year Advanced Standing Part-Time to Full-Time (Extended) One-Year Residency for Working Professionals (Reduced Residency) Transfer Online MSW Pathway Comparison Jobs That Transform Lives Our students are ready to change the world. We provide the foundational knowledge, applied skills, and professional network they need to make that change happen at any scale. Recent Columbia University MSW graduates have gone on to social work jobs as care coordinators, medical social workers, behavioral healthcare managers, clinical case managers, policy advocates, research analysts, directors of outreach, program coordinators, licensed master social workers (LMSWs), and so much more. We build compassionate, knowledgeable leaders who understand all facets of the profession. No matter how they choose to specialize, Columbia students learn both clinical and macro concepts. Visit our Method Specializations page to see our graduates’ variety of employers and the job skill sets they use, broken down by area of interest. Columbia MSW Graduates by Employment Type 52% Combination of direct practice, mezzo, and macro‐level work 40% Direct work with individuals, groups, and families 8% Macro‐level work (includes higher education) Source: 2019 MSW Degree Recipients Career Outcomes Access our Columbia MS in Social Work career outcomes report. The skills I’ve learned as a social worker are game changing for my life, for my children, and for the many, many lives that I can touch. Carmen Peguero, class of 2019 Social Work Career Support for Students and Graduates The Columbia master’s in social work attracts bright, driven students who want to use their MSW to promote social justice, equity, inclusion, and the overall well-being of others. We are proud to support our incredible students and their careers, as they pursue new roles and new opportunities to make meaningful change. To that end, all Online Campus students and alumni have access to a full suite of career services through our Office of Career Services and Leadership Management, including: One-on-one career coaching Networking events Exclusive job postings Recruitment events and job fairs Access to an alumni network of 19,000 graduates Workshops on job searching, resumes, interviewing, career building, and licensing Request Information Download our program brochure to learn more about how our students have developed their clinical skills and policy insights in the online MSW from the Columbia School of Social Work. Download Brochure Home Two-Year Advanced Standing Part-Time to Full-Time (Extended) One-Year Residency for Working Professionals (Reduced Residency) Transfer Admission Tuition & Financial Aid Specializations Field Education Curriculum Faculty About FAQ © 2022 Columbia MSW. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Instagram