Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Academics Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and for making a difference in the world. Join Us Academics Bachelor of Social Work Bachelor of Social Work This undergraduate program that combines liberal arts and social work classes with a focus on social justice. This professional degree makes you eligible for licensure and gives direct entry into human service professional positions. Learn More Master of Science in Social Work Master of Science in Social Work Join one of the top-ten master’s programs of social work in the nation and graduate ready for advanced social work practice with individuals, families, organizations and communities. Explore the curriculum and the multiple ways of tailoring this graduate degree to your interests. Learn More Field Education Field Education Field internships give undergraduate and master’s students supervised, hands-on experience in an agency in the community and the opportunity to build upon, apply and integrate what they learn in the classroom. Learn More PhD in Social Work PhD in Social Work If you are passionate about community-engaged research, this is the right doctoral program for you. We prepare students to be social work scientists, educators, scholars, and leaders in the field. Learn More Postdoctoral Education Postdoctoral Education Learn about our post-doctoral training with the Dell Medical School, funded through a T32 award from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Learn More Go Global Take your education beyond the Forty Acres and gain an international experience that will set you apart in your career and help you reach your goals. Learn More More to Explore Steer your Career The DiNitto Career Center offers services specific to social work including career exploration, job-search coaching, licensure preparation and leadership opportunities.Learn More Financing your Education Information about financial aid, fellowships, scholarships, assistantships and more.Learn More Why the Steve Hicks School We are ranked among the best ten schools of social work in the nation. We offer a caring, small-sized community within a top-tier research university located in the vibrant city of Austin.Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved