Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > About > Historical Timeline Search for: Historical Timeline Social Work began as an intervention in the conditions of urban industrial life at the end of the 19th century and has evolved into a global field that impacts nearly every area of social and political life. The Columbia School of Social Work has played an integral role in this development. Below are some highlights in this illustrious history. 1898 First Summer School in Philanthropic Work, established in New York by the Charity Organization Society; 25 men and women attend classes at 105 East 22nd Street. The Summer School remained as the primary training source until 1904. 1904 The first eight-month course of full-time graduate study is offered at the newly renamed New York School of Philanthropy. To ensure cooperation with Columbia University, Columbia’s president is an ex-officio member of the Society’s special committee responsible for the School’s affairs. 1906 Dr. George Edmund Haynes, the first African American to receive a doctorate from Columbia University, decides to use his social work training to help found the forerunner of the National Urban League. The School forms a coalition to support the League’s founding. 1917 The School’s name is changed to New York School of Social Work. 1922 The Bureau of Child Guidance is founded to expand training for child guidance work. The School has been instrumental in this. 1929 Porter Lee, the School’s dean and a casework teacher, co-authors, with Dr. Marion Kenworthy, the first psychiatric casework text. (Kenworthy is also the first psychiatrist in a full-time position at a social work school.) 1931 The School moves to 122 East 22nd Street, the Russell Sage Building. 1935 The Social Security Act is enacted. The School has played a role in writing and implementing the Act. 1940 The School is affiliated with Columbia University as one of its graduate schools; the MS degree is awarded. Also around this time, the School becomes active in extending the social work role into the U.S. military. 1949 The School moves to the Andrew Carnegie Mansion at 2 East 91st Street. 1952 The School’s first doctoral degree is awarded, raising the academic level of social work. 1961 The Peace Corps is founded by President John F. Kennedy. The School has formed a coalition in support of this initiative. Ada Deer becomes first Native American to receive MSW from CSSW. 1963 The School’s name is changed formally to the Columbia University School of Social Work. 1966 The School launches a major longitudinal study of foster children, their families and the agencies serving them, which influences national policy. 1971 The School moves to McVickar Hall on Columbia’s campus. 1978 Sr. Mary Paul Janchill, who received her Ph.D. in social work from the school in 1968, establishes the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park in Brooklyn, a program that demonstrates the ecosystemic perspective that she and other doctoral students helped to pioneer at the School. 1991 The first fully endowed professorship is established, followed by the full endowment of the Kenworthy Chair and nine additional endowed professorships. 1996 McVickar Hall undergoes extensive renovations; technological innovations include new electronic classrooms and computer labs. 1997 The United Nations Economic and Social Council Secretariat offers the School new program support and fellowship. School’s endowment rises to over $40 million. 1998 Columbia University School of Social Work marks its centennial anniversary. 2002 Construction of new School of Social Work building on Columbia’s campus begins; Dr. Jeanette C. Takamura is named the School’s 17th, and its first female, dean. 2004 The School moves to its current location: 1255 Amsterdam Avenue, on the northeast corner of the Columbia University campus. 2007 The Global Health Research Center of Central Asia is founded under Nabila El-Bassel, the Willma and Albert Musher Professor of Social Work. 2008 The Jordan Social Work Education for Excellence Program is established. 2012 The School establishes the Fisher Cummings Washington Fellows Program with a major gift. 2013 The School shortens its name by one word and its acronym by one letter, to the Columbia School of Social Work, or CSSW. 2014 The School opens its Online Campus for earning an MSW from various major cities in the United States. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT