Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » DiNitto Career Center DiNitto Career Center DiNitto Career Center The DiNitto Career Center (DCC) is a one-stop shop for career advising serving social work students and alumni at all stages of the job market exploration. E-mail us: dccs@austin.utexas.edu Call us: 512-232-7362 Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Workshop and events All DiNitto Center workshops and events are currently held virtually via Zoom and open to anyone who registers. If you know anyone who would benefit from our career programming, please tell them to email us at dccs@austin.utexas.edu to register for events and receive Zoom code invites. Go to calendar Spotlight Sign up for Spotlight, the DiNitto Career Center’s weekly electronic newsletter featuring job and internship opportunities. Sign Up Video library Find video recordings of the DiNitto Center Impact Hour speakers series and career coaching workshops. Go to Library Career advising and consultations Schedule appointments for individual career advising, resume/cover letter reviews and writing consultations. Learn More Career library Explore the DiNitto Center curated resources for field placement preparation, interviewing, resume writing, fellowship searching and more. Learn More Job-search resources Browse through a curated list of resources for job searching including salary information, professional networking organizations and local, statewide and nationwide employment sites. Learn More Washington Calling Learn about this week-long career development seminar in Washington D.C. for undergraduate and graduate social work students. Learn More Licensure information Find information on social work licensure (LBSW, LMSW and LCSW) for the state of Texas and resources for licensing exam preparation. Learn More Information for employers We are here to assist you with your organization’s staffing needs. We welcome the opportunity to establish partnerships with organizations and individuals interested in providing meaningful opportunities for our students and alumni. Learn More Steer Your Career is the DiNitto Center’s career services online portal. Steer brings students, alumni, registered employers and registered clinical supervisors together for a common purpose. New user? Register and create your profile using your UT EID. Students Search and apply for jobs, connect with employers and clinical supervisors, stay visible with updated resume, keep up with events and schedule career advising appointments. Student log in to steer Alumni Search and apply for jobs, connect with employers and clinical supervisors, stay visible with updated resume, keep up with events and schedule career advising appointments. Alumni log in to Steer Employers Post and manage an unlimited number of jobs directly to our students and alumni, register for our nonprofit and government career fairs and other events. Employer log in to Steer Clinical Supervisors Join our directory to connect with students and alumni working toward their LCSW licensure. Clinical supervisors log in to Steer Jennifer Luna, MSSW Director, DiNitto Career Center Meet our director Jennifer Luna, MSSW, brings years of experience in career development for students and alumni seeking employment in the nonprofit, for profit and public services sectors. Her career spans across a broad spectrum of practice areas, including social work in traditional, non-traditional and educational settings. See full bio Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved