Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Academics » Master of Science in Social Work Master of Science in Social Work Master of Science in Social Work Helpful Links MSSW Field Education Incoming MSSW Students Current MSSW students Course syllabi Join one of the top-ten master’s programs of social work in the nation, take advantage of the resources of a first-class university and graduate ready for advanced social work practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities. How to Apply MSSW Program Requirements Learn about requirements, concentrations in clinical social work and administration and policy, and flexible program options including two-year, three-year and post-BSW tracks. Learn More MSSW Field Education Build, apply and integrate classroom knowledge in a practice setting and under the supervision of a master’s level social worker. Learn More Certificate Programs Tailor the program to your interests and acquire training and skills to work with unique populations or in specific fields. Learn More Dual Degrees Earn your MSSW in combination with graduate degrees in business, public health, public policy and more. Learn More Portfolio Programs Earn your MSSW and conduct cross-disciplinary research in disability studies, nonprofit studies, conflict resolution and more. Learn More Go Global Take your education beyond the Forty Acres and gain an international experience that will set you apart in your career. Learn More Why choose social work? Why a Graduate Degree in Social Work? Social work is a unique profession rich with meaning, action, and the power to make a difference. More to Explore Incoming Students Resources and information specifically designed for newly admitted and incoming master’s students. Learn More Financing your Education Information about financial aid, fellowships, scholarships and assistantships. Learn More Why the Steve Hicks School Our top ranking, Our excellent people. Our first-class university. Our vibrant city. Learn More Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved