Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Current Students Search for: Current Students Welcome, current CSSW students, both new and continuing! We hope you are feeling as energized as we are about this academic year. The COVID-19 pandemic and other profound societal challenges have shown how important trained social workers are to our society. For additional details and information about CSSW’s upcoming academic year, please visit our Information Hub 2021-2022. If you do not have access to this Canvas site, please email Anna Maria Montes at am4902@columbia.edu with the subject line “Request to be added to Info Hub.” In the email provide your name, UNI, and CSSW affiliation. Contents What to expect for… Quick Links Join the Discussion What to expect for… Fall 2021 We are excited to welcome both new and continuing students in the fall of 2021. For further information and details, please read Dean Begg’s message about fall planning. Dean’s Message Summer 2021 CSSW will continue teaching mostly online during the Summer 2021, similar to Fall 2020 and Spring 2021. Information on Summer 2021 courses is located at link below. Summer 2021 courses Quick Links Registration Information Access study plans, directory of classes, course descriptions, course evaluations and more Academic Calendar Important dates for students at the School. Student Handbook Comprehensive student’s guide to the Columbia School of Social Work. Student Support Services Learn how offices such as Advising, Career Services, Financial Aid and the Writing Center can support you. Student Life Become a leader or join one of the 20+ student groups at the School. Forms and Documents Library Find all the documents and forms you need for Career Services, Field Education, Financial Aid, Registration, and the Writing Center. Who to Contact With Questions… A directory of who to contact with questions, concerns, or feedback. Join the Discussion CSSW Events Check our online calendar for upcoming events, including the School’s weekly Social Impact LIVE show, forums sponsored by Dean Begg and faculty research centers, and Action Lab trainings. Upcoming Events Follow us on Social Media Stay up-to-date on the latest news about the Columbia School of Social Work by following us on social media: About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT