Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Faculty Research DEI-related Graduate Student Colloquium Series Share Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commitment We are committed to building a welcoming and inclusive atmosphere in which every member of the department can thrive. We strive to incorporate diverse perspectives, experiences, and inquiry in our departmental and classroom spaces. We aim to: Recruit, mentor, and promote a diverse faculty. Provide mentorship, research support, social engagement, and learning opportunities so that students, postdocs, staff, and faculty can understand diverse identities and perspectives. Initiatives Faculty diversity. We commit to hiring so that our department better reflects the racial and ethnic diversity of Sociology PhDs. Student research. We created the Wade Smith Research Award, given each fall to a student pursuing original research on racial justice or a closely related topic. Junior faculty mentoring. We initiated a formalized mentoring program for all junior faculty. Every junior faculty member is matched with a mentor within and outside the sociology department. In the first year, there is a schedule for new faculty mentoring, including an orientation and 6-month follow-up meeting with the DEI committee. We also commit to sponsor a visitor during each junior faculty member's first three years to build professional network and get feedback on work. Student mentoring. We commit to hosting termly social and professional development events with sociology majors. For example, in the spring of 2021 we had a screening of Moonlight with a post-film discussion. We sponsor student memberships in Alpha Kappa Delta (AKD). Faculty commit to attending AKD meetings to talk about their research once per term. Professional development. We initiated a graduate student colloquium series. We host a junior faculty writing group. We support postdoctoral fellows through colloquia and one-on-one mentoring. Research related to DEI. We have a number of faculty research projects directly related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Shaonta' Allen studies how Black individuals and groups perceive and respond to racial and gendered inequality and how their resistance varies across social locations and institutional contexts. John Campbell writes about how racial and ethnic diversity affects social cohesion and economic performance in nation-states. Jason Houle investigates racial disparities in student debt, the labor market, and the criminal justice system. Sunmin Kim does research on Asian American identity and policy, and racial differences in political participation. Janice McCabe focuses her research on identities and inequalities, including how the structure and content of friendships may differ across institutions and students' backgrounds. Kimberly Rogers examines how cultural processes contribute to unequal interactions and social problems like the gender wage gap, mental health disparities, discrimination, victimization and violence. Michele Tine explores how rural and urban differences in child poverty may affect children's cognition and memory. Emily Walton examines the cultural dimensions of whiteness that perpetuate racial domination in diverse communities. Diversifying the curricula. We have an annual meeting devoted to teaching and sharing resources/feedback with each other about teaching. Dartmouth DEI information and resources IDE programs Employee Resource Networks (ERNs) Faculty Development (NCFDD and DCAL) Faculty Recruitment Inclusive Excellence Sociology community DEI resources #SocAF ASA Data about the Discipline ASA Minority Fellowship Program (MFP) ASA Anti-racism teaching resources Inside Higher Ed Conditionally Accepted archive Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback