Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Admitted Students Search for: Congratulations on your admission to Columbia University’s School of Social Work. We hope that you will spend some time getting to know what our School has to offer, as well as the benefits of being part of Columbia University. We’ve made our decision; now it’s time to make yours. Message from Dean Begg Read letter to Admitted & Incoming Students from Dean Melissa Begg. Admitted Student FAQ Information for admitted and incoming students, including changes due to COVID-19. Admitted Student Checklist Your key to important dates, guidelines, and next steps for joining CSSW. Academic Calendar Important dates for students at the school. Housing Options Check out the housing resources Columbia has to offer. International Students & Scholars Office The go-to resource for international students. CSSW Responds CSSW Action Lab for Social Justice Find out how CSSW faculty are mobilizing in response to COVID-19 and anti-Black racism. COVID-19 Events & Trainings Watch recordings of events and trainings related to the pandemic. Stay Connected Admitted Student Events Attend a virtual event for admitted students who are entering fall 2020 term. See Events Closed Facebook Group Join our closed Facebook group for admitted students. Join Group Follow us on Social Media Stay up to date on the latest news at the Columbia School of Social Work by following us on social media: About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT