Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Office of Professional Development Office of Professional Development Office of Professional Development The Office of Professional Development at the Steve Hicks School of Social Work has provided excellence in continuing professional education since 2000. E-mail us Featured events 31st Texas School Social Workers Conference 31st Texas School Social Workers Conference ” Healing through resilience, transformation, and connection.” February 23-25, 2022 Learn More The Central Texas Grief and Loss Conference The Central Texas Grief and Loss Conference April 7-8, 2022 Learn More INSAR 2022 Pre-conference INSAR 2022 Pre-conference May 10, 2022 Learn More Workshops and events Please visit our registration site for workshops and events. PLEASE NOTE: Due to the impact of COVID-19, events are being re-scheduled or offered as live online programs. Go Online offerings Visit this site for live webinars and on-demand workshops and other events. Learn More CEU Approval Get social work CEU credit for your event through our office. Apply for approval through an easy online form. Learn More Free resources Access a curated list of online workshops we are pleased to offer free of charge. Learn More Subscribe Subscribe to our minimal traffic e-mailing list. Enter your e-mail address at the prompt and follow the directions provided. Learn More Licensures The Office of Professional Development is a provider of Continuing Education Units (CEUs) for the following licensures: Licensed Master Social Workers (LMSW), Licensed Master Social Workers-Advanced Practitioners (LMSW-AP), Licensed Clinical Social workers (LCSW), Licensed Baccalaureate Social Workers (LBSW), Licensed Professional Counselors (LPC), Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFT). The office also provides Continuing Education Credit (CECs) for Advanced Alcohol and Drug Counselors (AADC) and Texas Association of Addiction Professionals (AAP). Attendees will receive a certificate indicating the number of continuing education credits or units offered for the program. Please see details of workshops and events here to determine if a seminar meets your specific continuing education licensing requirements. If you are licensed outside of the state of Texas, please contact your professional licensing board to confirm reciprocity with Texas licensure. Provider #1634-02 approved by the Texas Certification Board of Addiction Professionals. Direct complaints to TCBAP Standards Committee, 401 Ranch Road 620, Suite 310, Austin, TX, 78734. Email: admin@tcbap.org • Phone: 512-708-0629 • Fax: 888-506-8123 Contact us Your suggestions and feedback are appreciated. We offer technical assistance and CEU certification for community workshops. ssw-profdev@utlists.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-2886 Fax: 512-232-3700 Liz Nowicki, ACSW, LCSW Director Office of Professional Development Steve Hicks School of Social Work See in directory. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved