Princeton Social Media Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton Social Media Main Menu Menu Home Guidelines Directory Submit Content Log in Search Search Home Social Media Directory These accounts represent Princeton University on social media and follow the University social media guidelines. Find the ones that match your interests and have fun exploring! Campus partners who would like to be included should register their accounts with the Princeton Social Media Team. Princeton University Since 1746, a vibrant community of learning that endeavors to fulfill its informal motto, "in the nation's service and the service of humanity." Facebook Twitter Instagram Giphy YouTube LinkedIn Snapchat: PrincetonU Admission For each Princeton class, we bring together a varied mix of high-achieving, intellectually gifted students from diverse backgrounds to create an exceptional learning community. Our need-based financial aid program is recognized as one of the most generous in the country, making it possible for students to graduate without debt. Twitter Instagram YouTube Blog Princeton Alumni Stay connected with and be inspired by fellow alumni from every generation in every corner of the globe. Find local and campus-based events, read alumni news and features and discover opportunities to give back. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment The Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment at Princeton University is a multidisciplinary research and education center, whose singular mission is to develop technologies and solutions to secure our energy and environmental future. Facebook Twitter YouTube Athletics Connect with Princeton Athletics, teams, coaches and offices on social media. Princeton Athletics Social Media Directory Bendheim Center for Finance The center provides a fertile ground for cutting-edge research at the intersection between finance, monetary economics, and macroeconomics, with a special emphasis on financial frictions, behavioral finance as well as financial econometrics. Twitter LinkedIn Brazil LAB Spearheaded by PIIRS and in synergy with various departments, programs and initiatives, the LAB | Luso-Afro-Brazilian Studies | is a multi-disciplinary research and teaching hub for exploring the country’s history, politics and culture, along with its regional significance and international connections. Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Butler College One of the central aims of Butler College, beyond the layers of individual advising and support they provide, is to actively create a vibrant community of students from a vast range of diverse backgrounds, hailing from every corner of the nation and the world. Instagram Campus Dining We bring together expertise in culinary arts, wellness, sustainability, procurement and hospitality to develop innovative programs in support of our diverse and vibrant community. Instagram Campus Rec Campus Recreation engages the Princeton University community in co-curricular experiences to inspire lifelong health and well-being. Our department oversees Dillon Gym, Stephens Fitness Center, Intramural Sports, Group Fitness, Sports Clubs and more. Facebook Twitter Instagram Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding The Fields Center provides training, social and cultural programs and educational opportunities that prepare students and others to succeed in a diverse and ever-changing world. Facebook Instagram Center for Career Development The Center for Career Development empowers students to develop the insights, experience and connections to pursue personally meaningful careers throughout their lives. Facebook Twitter Instagram The Center for Digital Humanities at Princeton The Center for Digital Humanities (CDH) is an interdisciplinary research center devoted to building knowledge infrastructures for the use of digital evidence, fostering communities of practice across disciplines and professions, and modeling critical approaches to the role of data and technology in research and daily life. Our team consists of developers, designers, scholars, writers, and teachers. Twitter Center for Health and Wellbeing The Center for Health and Wellbeing (CHW) fosters research and teaching on the multiple aspects of health and wellbeing in both developed and developing countries. Facebook Twitter Instagram Center for Information Technology Policy The Center for Information Technology Policy at Princeton University is a nexus of expertise in technology, engineering, public policy, and the social sciences. Facebook Twitter YouTube Center for Jewish Life — Hillel at Princeton University The CJL is a home for Jewish students and those exploring their Jewish identity at Princeton offering a variety of activities ranging from social, educational and recreational to weekly Shabbat dinners. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Council on Science and Technology The Council on Science and Technology (CST) is comprised of dedicated faculty and staff who work to advance STEM literacy across Princeton University and beyond through rigorous course development, creative interdisciplinary programming, and robust educational research. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Davis International Center The Davis International Center offers specialized support for international students and scholars at Princeton University. Facebook Instagram Department of African American Studies The Department of African American Studies aims to expand and deepen a student's understanding of the complex interplay between political, economic, and cultural forces that shape our understanding of the historic achievements and struggles of African-descended people in this country and their relation to others around the world. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Department of Anthropology The Department of Anthropology takes an interpretive approach to the study of culture - an approach that requires intensive ethnographic fieldwork, deep engagement with critical social theories, and historical analysis. Facebook Twitter Instagram Department of Art and Archaeology The Department of Art and Archaeology at Princeton University has long been a leading center for the study of art, architecture, and archaeology. Facebook Instagram Department of Chemistry The Department of Chemistry is a vital, expanding hub of scientific inquiry with deep historic roots and a ready grasp on the future. Twitter Instagram Department of Computer Science Our department is home to 47 tenure-track and 13 teaching faculty, with strong groups in theory, networks/systems, graphics/vision, architecture/compilers, programming languages, security/policy, machine learning, and computational biology. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Department of English Our graduates are doctors, lawyers, activists, professors—all of them equipped with critical tools for analysis and interpretation, all of them carrying a mental library of great books, books to think with all their lives. Facebook Instagram Department of Geosciences Geology, Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geobiology, Paleontology, Climate Science, and Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Facebook Twitter Instagram Department of History Our department specializes in subfields from all over the world, late antiquity to the present. Twitter Department of Music Princeton’s Department of Music is at the epicenter of a musical culture that is broad and deep, reaching from edge to edge of the campus, from the classroom to the concert hall, and from faculty-led groups to those run exclusively by students. Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Department of Physics Where faculty and students engage in theoretical and experimental research. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Group Department of Politics Princeton Politics, where students learn from leading scholars, is one of the largest and most intellectually diverse political science programs in the world. Facebook Twitter Instagram Department of Public Safety The Department of Public Safety is the primary department at the University charged with creating a safe and secure environment, consisting of professional University police and security officers dedicated to providing best-in-class service to the community Instagram Department of Spanish and Portuguese The Department of Spanish and Portuguese offers a liberal arts major in Spanish and/or Portuguese designed to give students a thorough grounding in the language, literature, and cultures. Facebook YouTube Instagram Economics Princeton has one of the finest economics departments in the world. Economics is consistently one of the most popular concentrations on campus and attracts a diverse group of students with a broad range of interests. Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Effron Center for the Study of America The Effron Center for the Study of America at Princeton University aims to understand America in the world and how the world lives in America. Facebook Twitter Emma Bloomberg Center for Access and Opportunity The Emma Bloomberg Center at Princeton for Access and Opportunity supports and empowers students to, through, and beyond college. Facebook Instagram Twitter Environmental Health & Safety The Princeton University Office of Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) provides leadership, technical support, information and training, consultation, and periodic audits of environmental, health and safety practices and regulatory compliance. Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram The Gender + Sexuality Resource Center The Gender + Sexuality Resource Center provides campus wide programming, community building, and connections to resources relating to gender and sexuality. Instagram Twitter Facebook GradFUTURES GradFUTURES® is a campus-wide professional development initiative to empower graduate students with the professional competencies and connections they need to chart their future with clarity and confidence. We define professional development as the systematic learning and acquisition of skills and competencies that will support scholarly and research goals while preparing graduate students for professional success in diverse roles within the academic, public, and private sectors. YouTube LinkedIn The Graduate School The Graduate School focuses on and sustains excellence in graduate education across disciplines and emphasizes original and independent scholarship. Facebook Twitter Instagram Health Professions Advising Health Professions Advising offers guidance and resources to aspiring doctors, dentists, veterinarians and others who seek careers in the health professions. Facebook High Meadows Environmental Institute HMEI is Princeton University's interdisciplinary center for environmental research and education. Research carried out through HMEI advances understanding of the Earth as a complex system influenced by human activities, and informs solutions to local and global challenges by conducting groundbreaking research across disciplines and by preparing future leaders in diverse fields to impact a world increasingly shaped by climate change. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Housing and Real Estate Services The Office of Housing and Real Estate Services provides a variety of services, resources and support to undergraduate and graduate students residing in on-campus housing. Instagram Humanities Council A lively hub for innovation and collaboration, the Humanities Council connects 16 humanities departments and more than 30 interdisciplinary member programs, centers, and committees across the campus. Facebook Information Security Office Our goal is to make information security programmatic and cultural on campus in order to support the University in its mission in teaching and research. Visit our Facebook page to learn more about keeping information safe and to view our upcoming events. Facebook James Madison Program A program in the Department of Politics, the James Madison Program is dedicated to exploring enduring questions of American constitutional law and Western political thought. Facebook Instagram Twitter Keller Center for Innovation in Engineering Education The Keller Center at Princeton University creates societal impact through entrepreneurship, design and design thinking and innovative education. Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Lewis Center for the Arts Princeton in the service of the imagination. Offering more than 150 courses each year in Creative Writing, Dance, Theater, Music Theater, Visual Arts and the Princeton Atelier, and presenting 100+ public events each year including readings, screenings, performances, exhibitions, lectures and more. Facebook Twitter Instagram M.S. Chadha Center for Global India The M.S. Chadha Center for Global (CGI) India brings together scholars and students from all disciplines to explore broadly global India. Twitter YouTube Muslim Life Program The Muslim Life Program is dedicated to building a vibrant and pluralistic community on Princeton University’s campus that is welcoming to all and fosters deeper exploration of faith, sacred knowledge, and social activism through fellowship and a wide variety of programs. Facebook Instagram YouTube Novogratz Bridge Year Program The Novogratz Bridge Year Program allows incoming undergraduate students to begin their Princeton experience engaged in nine months of tuition-free, community-based global learning. Instagram Office of Community and Regional Affairs The Office of Community and Regional Affairs serves as the primary liaison between the University and the communities in which it resides on a wide variety of local and regional issues. Facebook Office of the Dean for Research The Office of the Dean for Research supports Princeton University’s mission to be one of the world's leading research universities. Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Office of the Dean for Undergraduate Students The Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students provides resources, opportunities and experiences for undergraduates and the greater university community. Facebook Instagram YouTube Office of International Programs The Office of International Programs (OIP) is home to Fellowship Advising, the International Internship Program, the Novogratz Bridge Year Program, and the Study Abroad Program. Instagram Office of Religious Life The Office of Religious Life supports all members of the Princeton community, of any religious identity or of none, in answering for themselves their own questions of how to find meaning and how to live. Facebook Instagram YouTube Office of State Affairs Ideas. Innovation. Issues. Service. Art. Events. Activities. Princeton University's role in the state of New Jersey. Facebook Twitter Office of Sustainability The Office of Sustainability's mission is to cultivate an ethos of sustainability at Princeton that inspires action at all scales in service to humanity and the world. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Office of Undergraduate Research The Office of Undergraduate Research (OUR) serves to inform, engage, connect, and support currently enrolled undergraduates on matters related to research at Princeton. Facebook Instagram Office of Wintersession and Campus Engagement Wintersession is a two-week experience for Princeton University community members to experiment and explore through unexpected, active and intriguing non-graded learning and growth opportunities. Instagram Operations Research and Financial Engineering Probability, statistics, optimization, operations research, financial mathematics, and machine learning, all in a single department. Facebook LinkedIn Organizing Stories Organizing Stories connects students with activists who mobilize storytelling in organizing. Instagram YouTube Pace Center for Civic Engagement The John H. Pace, Jr. '39 Center for Civic Engagement makes service and civic engagement a central part of the Princeton student experience so that undergraduate and graduate students can respond to the needs of the world in responsible ways. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Paul and Marcia Wythes Center on Contemporary China Founded in 2015, the Paul and Marcia Wythes Center on Contemporary China at Princeton University advances the study of contemporary China and provides substantive analysis from social science perspectives of the dramatic sociological shifts taking place in China today. Twitter Facebook Poetry @ Princeton Poetry@Princeton highlights Princeton’s current poetry community, storied poetic heritage, scholarly poetry collections, and poetry-related activities occurring on and around campus. Instagram Princeton Alumni Weekly An editorially independent magazine by alumni for alumni since 1900. Facebook Twitter Instagram Princeton Center for Complex Materials The Princeton Center for Complex Materials (PCCM) is a National Science Foundation supported Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC), dedicated to pushing the frontiers of complexity in materials science - bringing together over thirty faculty from six departments in the natural sciences and engineering. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Princeton Entrepreneurship Council Enabling Entrepreneurship the Princeton Way by working closely with students, faculty, alumni and existing campus organizations. Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Princeton Financial Literacy Initiative The goal of the Financial Literacy Initiative is to empower Princeton University students to cultivate financial wellness during their time at Princeton and beyond. Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Princeton Innovation Princeton Innovation is a Princeton University campus-wide initiative that aims to benefit humanity through innovation and entrepreneurship Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies PIIRS is Princeton University's interdisciplinary hub for research, learning and dialogue on global issues and intersecting world regions. Facebook Twitter Princeton Institute of Materials The Princeton Institute of Materials is the center for materials science and education due to its unique integration of long-term, curiosity-driven research, high-impact innovation and engagement with industry. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Princeton Journeys Princeton Journeys is the educational travel program of Princeton University. Not simply vacations, Princeton Journeys programs are opportunities for alumni and friends of the University to engage in intellectual conversation and take advantage of the learning experiences inherent in travel. Facebook Princeton Plasma Physics Lab Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory is a U.S. Department of Energy national laboratory managed by Princeton University. Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube Instagram Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Founded in 1930, the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs dedicates itself to integrating world-class scholarship and a commitment to service in order to make a positive difference in the world. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Princeton Spark Podcast A podcast by the Princeton Entrepreneurship Council of stories of entrepreneurship "The Princeton Way." Facebook Instagram Twitter Princeton Transportation & Parking Princeton University’s Transportation and Parking Services, your one-stop shop for getting to and around Princeton's campus. Twitter Princeton University Art Museum The Princeton University Art Museum is one of the leading university art museums in the world, with collections ranging from ancient to contemporary and spanning the globe. Follow us to explore art, events, scholarship, and latest news. Facebook Twitter Instagram Princeton University Concerts Through innovative programs presented in an intimate setting, PUC has been committed to making classical music accessible to all since 1894, presenting the world's greatest musicians. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Princeton University Libraries We enrich teaching and learning, facilitate world-class research, and preserve cultural heritage by providing dynamic services and diverse collections. Facebook Twitter Instagram Princeton Writing Center The Princeton Writing Program teaches critical thinking, reading, and writing, with particular emphasis on the techniques of academic inquiry and argument across the disciplines. Facebook Instagram Rockefeller College The mission of Rockefeller College is to foster an inclusive residential and intellectual community that welcomes students from diverse backgrounds, perspectives, nationalities, and identities. Facebook Instagram School of Engineering and Applied Science At Princeton Engineering, we ensure students master the fundamental principles of engineering science, then prepare them to make their own contributions to their fields—all with the goal of solving problems of broad importance for society. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Seeger Center for Hellenic Studies The Seeger Center at Princeton University is an interdisciplinary community for the study of the Greek world from antiquity to the present. Facebook Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library (Archives and Public Policy Papers) Princeton University Library’s University Archives, located in Mudd Library, contain records created by University faculty, staff, and students. These records document University administration, the development of academic departments and programs, and student life. Facebook Twitter Tumblr Trenton Arts at Princeton Trenton Arts at Princeton (TAP) is the University's coordinator of co-curricular arts outreach activities in the Greater Trenton area. Our mission is to build a multi-disciplinary community of artists across Princeton and Trenton through youth programming, student leadership opportunities, community performances and more. TAP is a collaboration between the Department of Music, Lewis Center for the Arts and Pace Center for Civic Engagement. Facebook Instagram YouTube UMatter Initiative An initiative by Princeton for Princeton, to give everyone the tools they need to create a safer and more caring community. Facebook Twitter Instagram Whitman College Whitman College is one of Princeton University's six residential colleges. As a four-year college, Whitman houses and advises freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors. Resident graduate students, faculty fellows, and a dedicated college administrative staff are also part of this learning community. Facebook Instagram Twitter Working at Princeton Managed by the Office of Human Resources, the Working at Princeton social media platforms engage current and prospective staff members and the broader community to convey the #WorkingAtPrinceton experience and how staff further Princeton's mission in a variety of impactful ways. Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Footer Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Operator: (609) 258-3000 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn GIPHY Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University