Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Research » Postdoctoral Training Postdoctoral Training Promoting Equity in Cardiovascular & Respiratory Health This postdoctoral training seeks to increase diversity among researchers who focus on promoting health equity in cardiovascular and pulmonary disease in the behavioral, population and implementation sciences. The Steve Hicks School of Social Work and the Dell Medical School offer this postdoctoral training through an award (T32HL140290) from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. See Postdoctoral Fellows How to Apply Two post-doctoral fellow positions open. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. Application materials: Cover letter; curriculum vitae; two-page (single-space) statement describing research interests, experience, eligibility, training needs and career plans; writing sample; three letters of recommendation. Upload application materials here. Direct inquiries to program directors: Yessenia Castro, Ph. D., Steve Hicks School of Social Work, ycastro@austin.utexas.edu ; or Catherine Cubbin, Ph.D., Steve Hicks School of Social Work, ccubbin@austin.utexas.edu; or Elizabeth Matsui, M.D., M.H.S., Dell Medical School, elizabeth.matsui@austin.utexas.edu Highlights Annual $60,000 stipend, health insurance stipend, tuition, $3,400 travel/ professional development allowance. One-year fellowship, starting August 1, 2022, and with the possibility of a second year contingent on pending funding and satisfactory progress. Postdoctoral fellows will further their research and training agendas through formal mentorship and coursework, seminars, conferences, and other career development activities. Each fellow will have a primary mentor assisted by other mentors in a team approach. They will work with established investigators on research projects and be expected to prepare and submit manuscripts for publication, present at local and national conferences, and develop and submit at least one grant proposal by the end of the fellowship term. Fellows will be trained in community-based participatory research methods and population health science. They will implement evidence-based interventions and/or produce scientific evidence with the ultimate goal of increasing health equity in heart and lung diseases, including their behavioral risk factors. Dell Medical School is uniquely designed to promote population health while the Steve Hicks School of Social Work is rooted in an equity lens and has a strong community-based focus; the schools have an established and successful partnership. Eligibility Individuals underrepresented in health-related sciences: African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, Alaskan Natives, Hawaiian Natives, natives of the U.S. Pacific Islands, individuals with physical or mental disabilities, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds. Please see here for the NIH definition of persons from disadvantaged backgrounds. Citizens or permanent residents of the United States at the time of fellowship appointment MD, DO or PhD in a relevant discipline, or be enrolled in an accredited doctoral degree program and fulfill all degree requirements prior to program entry. MD applicants should have completed their residency by the start of the fellowship. Mentors See an up-to-date list of mentors from across schools and colleges at The University of Texas at Austin. We strongly encourage potential applicants to contact mentors to identify shared interests and to determine if one or more can serve as mentors through the duration of the fellowship. Expectations Postdoctoral fellows are expected to spend about half of their time working independently and about half of their time working together with their mentor(s). In addition, they are expected to regularly attend seminars, submit manuscripts for publication, make local and national scientific presentations, and submit at least one grant proposal for external funding. Frequently Asked Questions Are there funds available to help with moving expenses? No, this is not an allowable expense. Can I expect an increase in the stipend level for the second year? Our stipend level is well above NIH levels. You can expect the same salary throughout. Institutional research training grants must be used to support a program of fulltime research training. Within the fulltime training period, research trainees who are also training as clinicians must devote their time to the proposed research training and must confine clinical duties to those that are an integral part of the research training experience. However, clinicians may be able to supplement their stipend through clinical work beyond the fulltime training requirement. What if I get a job offer before the fellowship period ends? The end date is negotiable. Appointments are normally made in 12 month increments, and no trainee may be appointed for less than 9 months during the initial period of appointment. Is there a possibility to extend the fellowship for a third year? Not through the T32 funding at this time; however, it may be possible to negotiate a third year through a different funding mechanism. What will the office space look like? Fellows located in the Steve Hicks School of Social Work will share an office with one other fellow. Fellows in the Dell Medical School will have their own cubicle workspace. What kind of computer will I have? Fellows will order a new desktop or laptop computer, plus necessary software, with assistance from an administrative assistant. Are there funds to recruit my own research assistants? There is no funding to hire research assistants through the T32 mechanism; however, you could consider supervising an intern who wants to gain research experience. How will authorship be attributed in collaborative projects? Authorship will be negotiated with your mentor(s) and/or collaborators. Will I have protected time to work on my dissertation papers? Yes. If applicable, you will be expected to prepare manuscripts from your dissertation and you will have protected time to do so. Your specific schedule and time spent on various projects will be negotiated with your mentor(s). How many vacation days, sick days, and holidays will be provided? Time off will be negotiated with your primary mentor. Are there funds to support training workshops and formal coursework? Yes. Tuition for coursework is provided as well as a generous professional development allowance (currently $3,400/year). Will health insurance be provided? Yes. Your stipend will be supplemented by $1,500 to purchase insurance through UT Austin or on your own. You may elect to enroll in health insurance with the universities group insurance program through our Human Resource Service Center. You can find additional information on the insurance coverage including how to start enrollment on the following webpage: https://hr.utexas.edu/current/insurance/research-affiliate-postdoctoral-fellow. Will I be able to engage in clinical work during the fellowship? Physician fellows and other fellows with a clinical degree may engage in clinical practice during the fellowship period. However, per NIH policy, research trainees must devote 40 hours per week to their proposed research training. Trainees may engage outside employment that is incidental to the fellowship (to include clinical work) for up to 10 hours per week beyond their full-time research training requirement. Research trainees who are also training as clinicians may engage in clinical work within the 40 hours per week research training requirement only if that work is an integral part of the research training experience. For those who wish to pursue clinical work, The Dell Medical School has its own clinics, although limited in size and scope. It also has ongoing formal relationships with Ascension-Seton and its two main hospitals in Austin (Dell-Seton Medical Center and Seton Main), and their inpatient and outpatient specialty and subspecialty services. Dell Med also has formal, strong relationships with two networks of federally qualified health centers, CommUnityCare and Lone Star Circle of Care, and the Department of Veterans Affairs’ large community-based outpatient clinic in Austin. Will my malpractice insurance be paid for? Physician fellows appointed to the Dell Medical School may receive malpractice insurance through their membership with UT Health Austin’s physician practice plan. Fellowship program funds cannot be used to cover this cost. Will there be opportunities for me to participate in CME activities as a student or teacher? Yes. Will there be opportunities for me to teach residents and medical students? Yes, there are inpatient and outpatient teaching services that fellows can participate in as a physician-educator. Will I have access to clinical data for my research? Yes, the Dell Medical School has a well-funded Data Core that provides data for fellows’ research at no cost. These data come from all of the clinical partners listed above as well as other health care venues, etc. In addition, there is increasingly available non-clinical data from such sources as the U.S. Census Bureau, the EPA, Austin Independent School District, criminal justice systems, etc. — much of which is under development but will be available to fellows as these data are brought into Dell Med’s data enterprise warehouse. Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved