Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Current Students Resources, events and traditions BSW MSW PhD Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Resources, events and traditions Commencement The Diana R. Garland School of Social Work (GSSW) participates in the Baylor Commencement ceremony each year, usually held in either the Ferrell Center or McLane Stadium. Specific details are forthcoming each year as the University finalizes details for each ceremony. Walking - It is assumed that you will walk in the Commencement ceremony. If you are unable to attend then you must let the Registrar's office know by filling out the Non-Participation Form on the Commencement Website. Diploma - You will receive your diploma during the Commencement ceremony as long as you filed at least 8 weeks prior to graduation. If you have filled out the non-participation form then your diploma will be mailed to you after the ceremony. This may take up to two weeks. Transcript - An official transcript will be available after five business days from Academic Records. You may find more information regarding transcripts here. Graduation Checklist for Prospective Graduates File to graduate BSW students will file to graduate in the fall semester preceding the spring semester during which they graduate. This will be done through advising. BSW students are not required to complete any additional paperwork,other than what is sent to them by the BSW Program Manager. MSW students file for graduation by submitting the Intent to Graduate Form. Please note that we need to know how to contact you in the upcoming semester. Don’t forget to also update your personal information on BearWeb. Ensure that all incomplete coursework and assignments are turned in one week prior to the last day of class (or by the deadline that your professor requires). Run a degree audit and confirm that all degree requirements are met. Respond to all graduation-related emails. Submit the student statement to Krista Barrett Purchase Regalia If you missed the one-stop shopping opportunity at Bear Faire, you can purchase your regalia at the bookstore. MDiv and MTS Joint Degree students can purchase Truett hood and wear master’s robe for Truett graduation. Although technically, the bachelor’s robes are not correct for the master’s degrees because of the cut of the sleeves, you will not be barred from participating in Convocation and Commencement just because you have the wrong robe on. The GSSW will provide the first stole at no cost. If for some reason you need a replacement, please contact Krista Barrett. Capstone The Capstone course is required of all graduating BSW and MSW students. The BSW Capstone consists of a weekly seminar that focuses on the preparation and presentation of a professional portfolio of learning that is reflective of the social work curriculum, and on the entry of students into the social work profession. The MSW Capstone consists of two weeks of four hours of class daily focusing on integration and synthesis of the major themes and objectives of the MSW program and on collegial consultation in preparation of a professional presentation delivered to the practice community. Convocation On the day preceding Baylor University's commencement exercises in May, the School of Social Work holds a Convocation ceremony to recognize and honor its graduates (including all campuses/all grad dates from that year). More intimate and much smaller than Baylor's commencement, this event is a joyous celebration with family and friends of our student's academic accomplishments. (Business dress) Family Dinner Not just another banquet, but more like a family reunion, this spring event celebrates another successful academic year where students, faculty, staff, BOA members and other friends enjoy a catered meal and presentations by student award recipients, and the School of Social Work Alumni of the Year. (Business dress) Career Services The GSSW offers Career Services to both students and alumni. Services such as resume reviews, interview prep, job opportunities and more. Check out the website here for more information. Grace Table An undertaking of the School's NASW-Baylor chapter, the Grace Table is located in the School's Student Lounge on the first-floor break area and provides light snacks for students to help nourish them throughout their busy days. Student Representatives Students have a rare opportunity in academic circles to participate in the School's academic, curricular and Board of Advocates committees, providing an important voice in the school's decision-making process. Students may indicate interest in committee service at the beginning of the academic year to their associate dean. The Voice E-newsletter The School of Social Work e-mails a newsletter every Monday to faculty, staff, students and pre-social work students with notices regarding academic, social, and events information. Submit your notices to The Voice by 5 p.m. on the Friday previous to the Monday it will be sent. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Current Students Resources, events and traditions About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678