Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Student Experience > International Students Search for: International Students The Columbia School of Social Work welcomes you! We look forward to meeting with all of our international students, learning from you, and helping you adjust to your new life in Manhattan. Contents International Student Resources International Students Program Globally Engaged Student Body Hear from Your Peers International Student Resources Settle in at Columbia Columbia University’s International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) is the go-to resource for international students. Please check out the full range of services they offer, from applying for a student visa to working off campus. (Occasionally ISSO profiles one of our students!) Settle in at CSSW Our Office of Enrollment and Student Services extends a helping hand to international students. Other helpful CSSW resources include student caucuses—such as the International Students Caucus, the Global Caucus, and the Asian Pacific Islander Caucus—and our Writing Center. International Students Program A program for students new to the U.S. social welfare system. International students who are unfamiliar with the U.S. social welfare system are registered in our Five-Term International Students Program, which features a Professional Immersion Seminar in the fall term covering U.S. social services as well as English-language enhancement courses. Please note: Students in need of additional English-language practice may be required to enroll in the six-week summer course English for Professional Purposes: Social Work, prior to the start of the fall term. International Students Program FAQ An Education with a Global Focus Columbia offers several international courses and programs. At the School of Social Work, students have the option of concentrating in international social welfare, with summer and field internships at international organizations like the United Nations, both in New York and abroad. They also have the opportunity to take courses with faculty who are working around the globe. Every spring, the School offers special courses on social work in particular countries, such as Chile or Jordan, with opportunities to travel to those countries during spring break. Hear from Your Peers Former students from overseas talk about their Columbia experiences and offer advice. jZ4e2HBJkHA lUkqIWl7sBw YKKau0NaHmc 3d68d6Ysuh0 RA0R2E8oD0A Advice to Future Columbia U. MSW Students from China (In Chinese, with English subtitles) Several Chinese graduates of Columbia University's School of Social Work, Class of 2017, reflect on the experience of obtaining an MSW from Columbia University, while living in the United States, on behalf of other students from China who may follow in their footsteps. WHY COLUMBIA? Chinese Journalist’s Story Di Cao (MSW'16) tells the story of her journey from China to Columbia, from a career in journalism to one in social work. What made her leave China to study abroad, and what new tools has she gained? STUDENT STORY: Di Cao (MSW'16) on How She Came to Study Social Work at Columbia (Chinese language interview) CAREER STORIES: Zhanjie SI (MSW'09) Talks about His Social Work Career Post-CSSW After earning a master's in social work from Columbia University, Zhanjie Si returned to China to direct the Aizhen Community-based Rehabilitation Program, for people in ethnic minority communities who suffer from leprosy. He explains what the degree did for him. Zhanjie SI (MSW'09) Talks about His Social Work Career Post-CSSW - In Chinese After earning a master's in social work from Columbia University, Zhanjie Si returned to China to direct the Aizhen Community-based Rehabilitation Program, for people in ethnic minority communities who suffer from leprosy. He explains what the degree did for him. In Chinese with English subtitles. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT