Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply MSW Financial Aid MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education BSW Students MSW students Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) What we do How we do it Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW MSW Waco MSW Online PhD PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Admissions BSW Financial Aid BSW Applying to the Major BSW Degree Requirements Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors FAQ - BSW MSW Online MSW PhD Field Education Inquiry form Events Contact us Financial Aid Incoming and current social work students may apply for financial assistance through Student Financial Services. Financial aid is available in the form of both merit and need-based scholarships, as well as grants, loans, and part-time employment. The School of Social Work has limited scholarship funds available for students who have been admitted and taken at least two courses in the social work major. This means students are eligible to apply in their junior year for aid towards their senior year. For more information on departmental scholarships, please contact Rachel Garcia. Scholarship applications are due by January 15th of each year, for the following academic year. Departmental Scholarships The Helen Louise McCullough Endowed Scholarship Fund for Social Work The Baylor Helen Louise McCullough Endowed Scholarship Fund provides assistance for worthy baccalaureate students pursuing a career in social work. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and/or need, with need being the primary consideration. Andrea Dunn-Theilengerdes Memorial Endowed Scholarship The Andrea Dunn-Theilengerdes Memorial Endowed Scholarship awards scholarships to junior or senior baccalaureate students who are pursuing a degree in social work. It was established to honor a beloved field supervisor in the School of Social Work. Adam Smith and Tifani Smith-Conway Endowed Scholarship The Adam Smith and Tifani Smith-Conway Endowed Scholarship awards scholarships to baccalaureate students pursuing a career in social work. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and/or need. Caitlin Elizabeth Creed Memorial Endowed Scholarship The Caitlin Elizabeth Creed Memorial Endowed Scholarship was established by Brad and Kathy Creed in loving memory of their daughter, Caitlin, who was tragically killed in an automobile accident in 2007 during her freshman year at Baylor. Scholarships are awarded to deserving baccalaureate students who are pursuing a major in social work and who reflect the values of Christian service, hard work, leadership potential, and enthusiasm for life that were reflected in Caitlin’s life. David and Elizabeth Anderson The David and Elizabeth Anderson Endowed Scholarship Fund provides assistance to undergraduate students who are pursuing a major in social work with the intent to pursue a ministry vocation in the field of social work. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and/or need. Ed and Laura Vick Scholarship The Ed and Laura Vick Endowed Scholarship Fund provides assistance to undergraduate students who are pursuing a major in social work and are committed to vocational service that integrates Christian faith and social work practice. Gene Thompson Memorial Endowed Scholarship The Gene Thompson Memorial Endowed Scholarship was established in memory of the long-time associate pastor at Broadway Baptist Church in Fort Worth, Texas, by friends of Gene and Rosemary Thompson. Rev. Thompson was instrumental in the church’s development of innovative, compassionate ministries among the poor, underemployed, homeless and other disadvantaged persons. The fund provides assistance to deserving baccalaureate students who are pursuing a major in social work. Kathleen and Eddie Yancey Scholarship The Kathleen and Eddie Yancey Endowed Scholarship Fund awards scholarships to baccalaureate students who are pursuing a degree in social work and planning a career for missions or full-time ministry in the United States. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and need with primary emphasis given to need. Madalene Cain Social Work Scholarship The Madalene Cain Social Work Endowed Scholarship is awarded to undergraduate students who are pursuing a degree in social work. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of need and merit. Mark and Holly Trice Endowed Scholarship The Mark and Holly Trice Endowed Scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and/or need to provide assistance to deserving baccalaureate students who plan to pursue a career in social work. The scholarship was established by Baylor alumni Mark and Holly Trice. Marshall and Joan Anderson Scholarship The Marshall and Joan Anderson Endowed Scholarship Fund is awarded to undergraduate students who are pursuing a degree in social work with intent to pursue a ministry vocation in the field of social work. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and need. Matthew 6 Foundation Scholarship The Matthew 6 Foundation Endowed Scholarship Fund is awarded to undergraduate students who are pursuing a degree in social work. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and need with the primary emphasis given to need. Minette D. and William M. Pratt Endowed Scholarship The Minette D. and William M. Pratt Endowed Scholarship was established by William M. Pratt of Fort Worth, Texas, in honor of his wife, Minette D. Pratt. Mrs. Pratt is a 1951 Baylor alum who has been a respected leader for many years in national Baptist life and Baylor University. This scholarship provides assistance to deserving baccalaureate students who are pursuing a major in social work. Robert and Martha Guthrie Scholarship The Robert and Martha Guthrie Endowed Scholarship Fund is awarded to students who are pursuing a degree in social work with an emphasis on gerontological studies. Students must have completed their first year and have a minimum overall GPA of 3.0. Willis Family Social Work Scholarship The Willis Family Endowed Scholarship Fund is awarded to students who are pursuing a degree in social work. This scholarship is awarded on the basis of merit and need. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254-710-6400 swo@baylor.edu Apply Admissions Give Request Info Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Admissions BSW Financial Aid About Us Back At a Glance Back Our History Back Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Back Honoring the past...the Carver connection Twentieth-Century Pioneers: Building a Foundation for Ethical Integration of Christianity & Social Work GSSW 50th Anniversary Video Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice Back GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area #BaylorProud Office of the Dean Back Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Contact Us Blog: Advocacy in Action Faculty/Staff Resources Admissions Back BSW Back Applying to the Major Back Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements Back BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Back Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Back Why the Garland School? How to Apply Back Navigating the Application Back General Application Tips Essays Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements International Requirements Admission Decision FAQ Baylor BSW 5th Year Program MSW Webinar Series MSW Financial Aid Back Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ - MSW Online MSW PhD Back Greetings from the Directors How to Apply Financial Aid Program of Study Back Course Descriptions Doctoral Faculty Research Interests FAQ - PhD Field Education Back BSW Students Back BSW Field Application Process BSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW students Back MSW Field Application Process MSW Generalist Practice Field Manual MSW Advanced Practice Field Manual Field Education Manual - Online Campus Field Placement Agencies Information for Field Faculty Glossary/Terminology Field Awards FAQ Field Inquiry form Events Back Virtual events MSW Preview Day MSW Info Sessions Maps, parking and directions Contact us Research & Impact Back Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Back Clergy Sexual Abuse research SERVE Project Mastering Your Marriage Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Back What we do Back Wellness Care and hospitality Difficult conversations Vulnerable children, individuals and families How we do it Back Resources Back Addiction and Recovery C3I Academic Articles COVID-19 Resources Congregational Social Work Resources Difficult Conversation Resources Foster Care & Adoption Immigration & Hospitality Intersection of Art, Social Work & Faith LGBTQ+ Opinion Pieces by Partners Racial Justice Resources Trauma Walking Alongside Curriculum Back Legacies of Care Foundations of Holistic Ministry Understanding Poverty Stepping Stones Backpacks Pathways Food for the Journey Wellness & the Church Cultivating leaders Church consultation Research Trauma-Sensitive Congregations C3I Interest Form Chafin Lecture 2020 Social Work Initiatives Back Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Back Resources Back Christianity & LGBTQ+ Persons - Justin Lee Lecture Spanish fluency resources Celebrating culture and diversity Back Past Heritage Month Celebrations Social Work Month 2022 Women’s History Month Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative Back GML scholarship program Back Academic components FAQ Eligibility Refer someone Apply to the program GML alumni updates GML digital brochure Invest GML in the news GML Interest Form GML online brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Back 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Back Give Alumni Back GSSW Alumni Update Form PhD-Community Connections Alumni News - Class Notes Baylor University Career Center Back Job Search Resources Licensure Information Continuing Education Back Dyer Ethics Workshop 2021 Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students Back BSW Back BSW Degree Requirements BSW Financial Aid BSW Advising BSW Student Handbook 2021-22 Student organizations Academic Actions BSW Pass/Fail FAQ's MSW Back MSW Waco Back Waco - General Info Waco - New Student Resources Waco - Curriculum Waco - Registration MSW Online Back Online - General Information Online - New Student Resources Online - Curriculum Online - Registration PhD Back PhD-Community Connections Resources, events and traditions Career services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678