Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers What is Sociology? First Year Questions Share Minors The Basic Minor The Basic Minor in Sociology consists of six courses, to be selected as follows: 1. One introductory course: Sociology 1 or 2 2. One theory course: Sociology 15 or 16 3. Four additional Sociology courses. Students must take three Lower Division courses (numbered 10 or 11, or 20-49) and one Upper Division course (numbered 50-80). Students may substitute an Upper Division course for one of the Lower Division courses. The Minor in Markets, Management, and the Economy The Minor in Markets, Management, and the Economy consists of six courses, to be selected as follows: 1. One introductory course: Sociology 1 or 2 2. One theory course: Sociology 15 or 16 3. One of the following: Sociology 26, 66 or 69 4. Two of the following courses from the Lower Level o Socy 21 Political Sociology o Socy 22 The Sociology of International Development o Socy 26 Capitalism, Prosperity and Crisis* o Socy 27 Organizations in Society o Socy 28 Health Care and Health Care Policy o Socy 29 The Sociology of Work 5. One of the following courses from the Upper Level o Socy 50 Sociology of Law o Socy 53 Power, Politics and the State o Socy 66 Markets and Management* o Socy 67 Ideas, Politics and Crisis o Socy 69 The Sociology of Globalization* o Socy 70 American Labor Relations o Socy 80 Independent Study (in Markets, Management and the Economy) An Upper Level course may be substituted for a Lower Level course *For the MME Minor, taking Sociology 26, 66 or 69 can be used towards either fulfilling requirement #3, OR requirement #4 or #5, but not both. The Minor in Social Inequalities The Minor in Social Inequalities consists of six courses, to be selected as follows: 1. One introductory course: Sociology 1 or 2 2. One theory Course: Sociology 15 or 16 3. Three of the following courses from the Lower Level o Socy 23 Social Movements o Socy 25 Democracy and Democratization in Developing Countries o Socy 26 Capitalism, Prosperity and Crisis o Socy 31 Youth and Society o Socy 32 Social Meanings of Home o Socy 34 Health Disparities o Socy 38 Status and Power in Social Interaction o Socy 42 Racism in Asian America o Socy 45 Inequality and Social Justice o Socy 46 Constructing Black Womanhood o Socy 47 Race and Ethnicity in the U.S. o Socy 48 Immigration, Race and Ethnicity 4. One of the following courses from the Upper Level o Socy 50 Sociology of Law o Socy 55 Poverty and Public Policy in the US o Socy 56 Sociology of Gender (Cross-listed with WGSS 34.04) o Socy 57 Identity and Social Interaction of Multiracial Americans o Socy 58 Education and Inequality o Socy 60 Dangerous Intersections: Race, Class and Gender o Socy 61 Gender (In)Equality (Cross-listed with WGSS 33.05) o Socy 65 Social Psychology of Inequality o Socy 70 American Labor Relations o Socy 71 Race Matters (Cross-listed with AAAS 63) o Socy 80 Independent Study (in Social Inequalities) An Upper Level course may be substituted for a Lower Level course Subtopics: Class and General Inequalities: Socy 23, 25, 26, 31, 32, 34, 38, 45, 50, 55, 57, 60, 65 Ethnicity: Socy 31, 32, 42, 46, 47, 48, 57, 58, 60, 71 Gender: Socy 32, 46, 50, 56, 60, 61 Downloadable Form for Course Planning Course Planning Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback