Department of Sociology Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Home Undergraduate Program Submenu For Prospective Majors Submenu What is Sociology? Career Paths FAQs For Current Majors Submenu Requirements Study Abroad Funding Current Term Courses Deadlines Prizes & Prize Winners Class Day FAQs For Sophomores Undergraduate Handbook Undergraduate Courses Credit for Outside Course After Graduation: What Next? Thesis Examples Graduate Program Submenu Degree Requirements Access, Diversity, and Inclusion Financial Support Interdisciplinary Studies Placement Prospective Students What Next? Yearly Program Requirements FAQ Graduate Handbook Research Integrity & Assurance Working Groups Courses People Submenu Faculty Emeriti Graduate Students On The Job Market Post-Docs Staff Visitors Alumni Eviction Lab Apply Contact Us Intranet Log in Search Search Department of Sociology Asian America Scholars and Experiences Join Us For A Panel Discussion Featuring Prema Kurien, Jennifer Lee, Yu Xie, and Arun Hendi as moderator. Sociology 102: Police Violence, #BlackLivesMatter and the Covid-19 Pandemic. June 14, 2020 The Gaps Between White and Black America, in Charts June 22, 2020 A Sociological Note on George Floyd’s Death and the Pandemic June 13, 2020 Michelle Obama, Princeton Sociology Class of *85, pens letter to graduates everywhere. June 12, 2020 1 / 4 Start animation ▶ < > News How do you pack for an escape?: A refugee’s story | Opinion Up to four million refugees could be forced to leave Ukraine if the situation escalates. We need to make sure they have a home to return to. How do we fix our credit scoring system? Our data-based credit system was meant to be free of prejudice. It's not. When We Were Socially Distant, Money Brought Us Closer As the Covid-19 pandemic shattered lives and livelihoods, experts somberly anticipated a decline in philanthropic donations. Watch | Pandemics: The Maths, the Masks, the Madness Pandemics are nothing new, but the last handful of pandemics have all caught us by surprise... Sara McLanahan | December 27, 1940 – December 31, 2021 by Kathryn Edin. Sara McLanahan, the William S. Tod Professor of Sociology and Public Affairs, passed away on December 31 at 3:15 p.m. Malcolm H. Kerr Dissertation Award Awarded to Gözde Güran The winner for the Social Sciences category is Gozde Güran, whose highly original dissertation traces the complex hawala system of informal money transfer in light of the 2011 Syrian civil war and the ensuing refugee crisis. View All News Upcoming Events No upcoming events found. View All Events In revealing new memoir, Michelle Obama candidly shares her story In revealing new memoir, Michelle Obama candidly shares her story: Read more Devah Pager Memorial Service : Watch Now American Sociological Association, New York City, August 11, 2019 Watch Now Footer Contact Us Intranet Campus Map Facebook Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University