Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Current Students > Who to contact with questions about… Search for: Who to contact with questions about… If you have a question or concern, would like more information about an administrative process, or would like to provide feedback to the school, please reach out to the appropriate office or contact person as your first step. Below is a list of topics students commonly ask about, with contact information for the relevant offices. If your question covers a range of topics, then we would encourage you to use our general inquiry form. Additional points to note: More information on policies and procedures at CSSW can be found in our student handbook and in an FAQ format here. Information on policies for the wider Columbia University system can be found here. ACADEMICS For faculty that have questions or feedback regarding CSSW’s curriculum or suggestions for new courses, please use the curriculum committee feedback form. For faculty that have classroom-related concerns, exceptions to academic policy, or possible issues of academic misconduct, please reach out to Academic Affairs at swoaa@columbia.edu. ADVISING For questions or feedback on progress towards the degree, please reach out to swadvising@columbia.edu with questions about your academic course and study plan, issues regarding specific courses or electives, grade concerns, requesting or returning from leaves of absence, wellness concerns, experiences in your field assignment/experience, possible issues of community misconduct, academic progress, climate within or experience with a course. For students who have concerns about their grades, we encourage they speak with their instructor to see if a resolution can be achieved. They should also meet with their advisor to brainstorm about the next steps. This might include mediation with the student, instructor, and an Office of Advising staff member. Information about grade appeals can be found in the Student Handbook pgs. 41-42. Students can review the curriculum via Student Services’ Registration Guides and Course Information. In addition, the Office of Advising is available to answer curriculum questions by appointment via the Advising Appointment Scheduler. BIAS AND INCLUSION For questions or feedback on incidents of potential bias, issues of inclusivity, and school climate, please reach out to the Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion via email (swdei@columbia.edu) or via their online web form (can be anonymous) – link below. More info | Feedback Form | Email CAREER GUIDANCE For questions or feedback on career options and planning, please reach out to swcareer@columbia.edu with questions about career counseling, career and professional development workshops, recruitment and networking events, and access to job opportunities. More info | Email COURSES/CURRICULUM For questions or feedback on specific courses, please see ACADEMICS and ADVISING above. DISABILITY ACCOMMODATIONS For questions or feedback on accommodations you may request, please email swaccommodations@columbia.edu with questions about reasonable accommodations at CSSW. Students should begin with reviewing the website for Disability Services at the University. More info | Email FACILITIES For questions or feedback about the availability of study or computer lab space, hours of operation, or other building or campus feedback, please contact swassist@columbia.edu. More info FACULTY For questions or feedback on faculty or classroom issues, please see ACADEMICS and ADVISING above. FIELD EDUCATION For questions or feedback on field placements, expectations, or issues at site/with supervisors, please reach out to swfieldstaff@columbia.edu with questions about Field. Examples of topics may range from concerns about the experience of field assignment overall, your agency, your progress, or to report issues of concern. More info | Email FINANCIAL AID For questions or feedback around financial aid packages, emergency funding, or financial hardship, please reach out to swfinaid@columbia.edu with questions about preparing and planning for the cost of your education, your financial aid package, generally, changes in your financial circumstances, or information on scholarships, work-study funds, loans, payment schedules, and refunds. More info | Email HOUSING For questions about Columbia housing, please email Admissions at cssw-admit@columbia.edu if you are a new student. If you are a continuing student, please contact Advising at swadvising@columbia.edu. More info INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY For questions or feedback about IT resources available to students including but not limited to Columbia Zoom Pro Licensed accounts, CourseWorks-Canvas, software licenses for courses, Qualtrics (online survey tool), Turnitin (anti-plagiarism tool), and the student computer lab, please reach out to swit@columbia.edu. Email LICENSING For questions or feedback on the process of obtaining state licensure for social work, please email byg3@columbia.edu with licensing questions, New York State Department of Education licensing procedures and forms, and general guidance for any other state-specific requirements. More info | Email REGISTRATION For questions or feedback on registration procedures or challenges, please reach out to swstudentservices@columbia.edu with questions about registration, holds on registration, cross-registration, transfer credits, schedule changes, waitlists, and other questions regarding registering for courses. Email STUDENT LIFE For questions or feedback on student activities, events, and leadership opportunities, please reach out to swstudentlife@columbia.edu with questions about engaging in co-curricular activities, student government, caucuses and student groups, as well as student leadership opportunities. More info | Email TUITION AND BILLING For questions on tuition and fees, please reach out to the Financial Aid Office at swfinaid@columbia.edu with questions about billing, payments, and refunds. Email UNIVERSITY EOAA OFFICE For reporting discrimination or harassment, please reach out to eoaa@columbia.edu with questions or to report an incident of discrimination, harassment, or gender-based misconduct. More info | Email UNIVERSITY OMBUDS OFFICE The Ombuds Office provides a safe space for faculty, students, staff, and affiliates to confidentially discuss work-related issues, academic concerns, clarification of policies, and many other concerns and issues. Please review the resources of Columbia’s Ombuds Office and schedule an appointment to utilize this informal, confidential resource. More info Office Email Addresses Academic Affairs – swoaa@columbia.edu Admissions – cssw-admit@columbia.edu Advising – swadvising@columbia.edu Bias and Inclusion – swdei@columbia.edu Career Services – swcareer@columbia.edu Facilities – swassist@columbia.edu Field Education – swfieldstaff@columbia.edu Financial Aid – swfinaid@columbia.edu Instructional Technology – swit@columbia.edu Licensing – byg3@columbia.edu Student Life – swstudentlife@columbia.edu Student Services – swstudentservices@columbia.edu About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT