Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Events > Continuing Education > Practice-Focused Training in Prolonged Grief Disorder Therapy Search for: Practice-Focused Training in Prolonged Grief Disorder Therapy June 17 10:00 am - June 18 6:00 pm Event Organizer Center for Prolonged Grief Phone: 212-851-2107 Email: info@complicatedgrief.columbia.edu Website: https://prolongedgrief.columbia.edu/professionals/complicated-grief-professionals/overview/ + Google Calendar Register Here OPEN TO THE PUBLIC | ONLINE ONLY (VIA ZOOM) | REGISTRATION REQUIRED | 13 CEs AVAILABLE FOR A FEE The faculty at the Center for Prolonged Grief offers this workshop covering principles, and practice of a 16-session treatment complicated grief therapy/prolonged grief disorder therapy (PGDT) that you can use for clients with prolonged grief. In this two-day session with presenters Bonnie Gorscak, PhD, and Natalia Skritskaya, PhD, you will learn how to implement PGDT using active empathic listening, brief personalized interventions, companionship alliance, and a series of targeted procedures. You will learn how to use a grief monitoring diary to help clients understand and accept grief and optimize their ability to manage emotional pain. You will learn to help clients think about the future and strengthen relationships with loved ones and others in their community. With this background, you will learn how to help clients tell the story of the death, live with reminders and connect with memories of the deceased. Video examples will be used to demonstrate core treatment procedures. Please note that PGD assessment and differential diagnosis will not be covered in this workshop. This is the focus of The Big Picture: PGDT Principles and Procedures workshop. For more details, please see the registration page. Back to Events About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT