Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > News > News > Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation Search for: Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 3 @ 1:29 am The Columbia School of Social Work is excited to announce that Wanda Holland Greene will be the keynote speaker at this year’s Graduation Ceremony, to take place on Saturday, May 14. Ms. Holland Greene is Head of School at The Hamlin School in San Francisco, a mission-driven institution dedicated to best practices and innovation in the education of girls and young women, as well the Vice Chair of Columbia University’s Board of Trustees. Her work has focused on a wide range of issues in education: mental health and emotional well-being; anti-racism and cultural competency; neurodiversity and learning differences; gender inequity and stereotype threat in the classroom; and global citizenship. In sharing the news with the School community, Dean Melissa Begg said, “Wanda Holland Greene fully embraces and lives the social work ethos. Her commitment to a wide range of pressing educational issues resonates strongly with CSSW’s mission to promote social and racial justice. She is a truly inspirational speaker, believes in our School and its mission, and knows and supports our community in myriad ways. We look forward to her bringing a fresh perspective that will further enrich our community and expand our horizons.” Born and raised in Brooklyn, Ms. Holland Greene attended The Chapin School before receiving her BA from Columbia College (1989) and her MA (1991) and EdM (2021) from Teachers College. (To learn more about her undergraduate experience at Columbia, read this interview in Columbia College Today.) She began her career as an educator at The Columbia Greenhouse Nursery School before returning to Chapin as a teacher and the school’s first Director of Student Life. Prior to joining Hamlin in 2008, she served for eleven years as a senior administrator at The Park School in Brookline, Massachusetts. A former faculty member of the National Association of Independent Schools’ Aspiring Heads Fellowship, Ms. Holland Greene is a nationally recognized mentor, advocate, and executive coach for new and aspiring heads of school. Among her awards and honors, she has received an Alumna Achievement Award from Columbia College Women and the University’s John Jay Award, an honor bestowed annually to Columbia College alumni for distinguished professional achievement. She has been named one of San Francisco’s Most Influential Women in Bay Area Business and was presented a Women Making History Award by the San Francisco Commission on the Status of Women. This year’s Graduation, the first in-person ceremony since 2019, will take place on the Morningside Campus South Lawn at 4:00 p.m. For more details on this event please see this page. Upcoming Events See more The Willma and Albert Musher Lecture: Translating Behavioral HIV Interventions from the US to Kazakhstan June 9, 2022 Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy June 10, 2022 Practice-Focused Training in Prolonged Grief Disorder Therapy June 17, 2022 Tweets by ColumbiaSSW Follow on Instagram Other News See more Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Meet 15 ‘Lions of Social Justice’ From the Class of 2022 April 28, 2022 ICYMI: Dr. Maria Y. Rodriguez on How Historic Poverty Shaped Today’s Child Welfare Policies (Video) March 30, 2022 Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Δ About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT