Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Sociology Department of Sociology Contact Us Sociology@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Back to Top Nav Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Back to Top Nav Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Back to Top Nav Equity News & Events People Contact us Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers Some Sociology courses have more direct relevance for certain careers, while others provide a very useful background for the specific occupational area. Below are listed a sampling of career possibilities which students ask about the most. Should you have other areas of interests, now or in the future, ask any member of the Department of Sociology. For additional course descriptions, consult your ORC or speak with the professor(s) in charge of the specific course(s). Janice McCabe, associate professor of sociology, believes understanding how society is organized empowers people to make the world a better place. PreviousNext Careers in Social Work, Group Work, Family Counseling 1. Introductory Sociology 2. Social Problems 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 27. Organizations in Society 28. Health Care and Health Care Policy 47. Race and Ethnicity in the U.S. 53. Power, Politics and the State 60. Dangerous Intersections 75. Neighborhoods and Health 76. Race, Power, and Politics 80. Independent Study Applied Sociology 1. Introductory Sociology 2. Social Problems 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 15. Sociological Classics Personnel, Public Relations 1. Introductory Sociology 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 27. Organizations in Society 47. Race and Ethnicity in the U.S. 60. Dangerous Intersections 66. Markets and Management 73. Economic Sociology: From Tax to Fraud 74. Professionals, Policy and Practice 76. Race, Power, and Politics 80. Independent Study Medicine and Public Health 2. Social Problems 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 27. Organizations in Society 28. Health Care and Health Care Policy 34. Health Disparities 75. Neighborhoods and Health 80. Independent Study Education 1. Introductory Sociology 2. Social Problems 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 27. Organizations in Society 58. Sociology of Education 80. Independent Study Business and Industry 1. Introductory Sociology 2. Social Problems 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 21. Introduction to Political Sociology 27. Organizations in Society 53. Power, Politics and the State 66. Markets and Management 73. Economic Sociology: From Tax to Fraud 74. Professionals, Policy and Practice 80. Independent Study Advertising, Market Research, Mass Communication, Media 1. Introductory Sociology 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 27. Organizations in Society 66. Markets and Management 73. Economic Sociology: From Tax to Fraud 74. Professionals, Policy and Practice 80. Independent Study International Affairs and Development 10. Quantitative Analysis of Social Data 11. Research Methods 21. Introduction of Political Sociology 23. Social Movements 27. Organizations in Society 48. Immigration, Race and Ethnicity 53. Power, Politics and the State 66. Markets and Management 80. Independent Study Overview Majors Minors Honors Courses Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Alumni Stories Meet Sociology Alumni Alumni: Tell Us Your Story Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Sociology Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Honors The Thesis Proposal Past Honors Theses Courses Course Schedule by Term First Year Seminars Introductory Courses Methods Theory Lower Division Upper Division Culminating Experience Prizes & Awards Research Awards Transfer Credit Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story What is Sociology? First Year Questions Exchange Program Overview Costs and Financial Aid Application Procedure Student Visa While You Are There Housing Courses, Credits, and Grades Research Faculty Research Overview Student Research Student Research Spotlight Sociology Research Awards Research Resources A. Wade Smith Research Award Media Contacts Equity News & Events People Contact us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback