Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search for: News Events Search for: Home About Welcome from the Dean Dean’s Messages Mission Diversity, Equity & Inclusion CSSW Anti-Racism Action Plan Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory CSSW Council of Deans Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Full-Time Faculty Diversity Adjunct Faculty Diversity Research Centers & Programs Books Faculty Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Who to Contact… Resources for COVID-19 Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ News Events Home > Academics > MSW Program Search for: MSW Program A world-class education from the first school of social work in the United States. Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education, training, and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation, and around the world. Request Info Apply Now Contents Our Competitive Advantage Online Campus Hear from Your Peers Our Competitive Advantage Rigorous Coursework The CSSW curriculum combines a foundational understanding of social work practice with a specialized focus in a student’s concentration. Curriculum Top Professional Training Our on-the-ground field training takes place under the supervision of some of the most experienced social work practitioners in the nation. Field Education Wealth of Choice At the Columbia School of Social Work students can choose among learning platforms, programs, concentrations, minors, and dual degrees. Your MSW Pathway Online Campus Columbia School of Social Work’s online campus is available nationwide. Online MSW students take classes with leading Columbia faculty and are placed at a field agency in their nearest metropolitan area. You can find more details about this 21st-century education path on our online MSW page. Online MSW Hear from Your Peers Columbia students and alumni explain what motivated them to earn an MSW degree. jUd0vb-siIg NWtpHdsEuvY rxeziIbI9b4 WHY SOCIAL WORK? Air Force Veteran's Story After twenty years in the Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Craig Theisen, USAF, Retired, could have taken a variety of career paths. But he decided he wanted to make a difference in other people's lives... WHY SOCIAL WORK? Student Story Nureen Wohl (MSW'17) talks about why she chose to study for an advanced degree in social work rather than in psychology. WHY SOCIAL WORK? Alumnus Story Walter Vega, who graduated from the Columbia School of Social Work in 2004 with a degree in clinical practice, talks about the differences between social work and other mental health professions. Ready to start making waves, moving mountains, and changing lives? Apply Now About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources News Columbia University and Committee of 100 to Commence Joint Research on the Economic and Sociopolitical Situation of Today’s Chinese American Population June 1, 2022 Leading Educator and Columbia Trustee Wanda Holland Greene to Give Keynote Address at 2022 Graduation May 2, 2022 Kathy Marsala’s 50 Years of Lessons and What’s to Come April 29, 2022 Keep in touch with us Interested in getting information on our news & events? Type Attendees Prospects Alumni Field Contacts Web Subscribers Veterans SWOPE Internal Promo One-Off Professors Donors Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar OCIT