Skip to content Directory Alumni Give Events MENUMENU Home About We are the Steve Hicks School We tackle the social problems of today and conduct research to face the challenges of tomorrow. Our Story In this section Overview Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Programs Leadership Office of the Dean Helpful links Why the Steve Hicks School Directory Contact Us News Academics Educating for Change We educate social workers with a passion for social justice and making a difference in the world. Join Us In this Section Overview Bachelor's Program Master's Program PhD Program Field Education Why the Steve Hicks School Helpful Links Faculty How to Apply Afford Research Research We address challenging human issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to change people’s lives for the better. Learn about our impact In this Section Overview Institutes and Centers Postdoctoral Training Research Stories Research Projects Helpful Links Services to Researchers Contact the Research Office For Students Student Resources From financial support to career services and beyond, we strive to support our students in every way possible. In this Section Overview Financial Support Work at the School Student Organizations DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Helpful Links Incoming MSSW Students Current BSW students Current MSSW students For Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Resources We are committed to build a diverse team of high-caliber faculty and staff to carry out our mission. Learn More In this Section Overview Course Management Faculty Affairs IT Support Room Schedule Business Affairs and Forms Human Resources Brand Resources Communication Resources Helpful Links Directory Open Faculty Positions Give Directory Alumni Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr Vimeo YouTube Home » Student Resources » Incoming MSSW Students Incoming MSSW Students Incoming and Newly Admitted MSSW Students Congratulations on your admission to the master’s program at the Steve Hicks School of Social Work at The University of Texas at Austin. We are delighted to have you as part of the incoming class. Please check this page on a regular basis as content is updated periodically. Looking for a student perspective? Get in touch with a current MSSW student to learn about their experience at the Steve Hicks School and ask any questions you may have. E-mail a current MSSW student Helpful Links MSSW Program homepage Check My Status Visit My UT Important dates Summer 2022 May 26th: Mandatory orientation May 31st: Registration June 2nd: First Day of Class June 7th Tuition due by 5 p.m. CST Fall 2022 August 16-17th: Mandatory orientation August 18th: Registration August 18th-19th: Field Engagement Seminar August 22nd: First day of classes August 25th: Tuition due by 5 p.m. CST Checklists Before orientation Submit current health and immunization records to the university. Submit final transcripts to be able to register for classes. Read the NASW Code of Ethics. Read the Texas Board of Social Work Examiners’s Code of Conduct. Read the Steve Hicks School’s Student Standards for Social Work Education. Read the MSSW student handbook. Register with Services for Students with Disabilities if you need accommodations for classes and exams. Join the Facebook group: UT Steve Hicks School of Social Work Incoming Class of 2022 Before school starts Obtain UT EID. Register for DUO multi-factor authentication to be able to access university online services. Sign up for a UTmail account. Download and install UT Zoom. Obtain UT ID card. Obtain IT prepaid account for printing privileges. Obtain a parking permit if you plan to park on campus. Buy Social Workers’ Desk Reference (Oxford University Press). You will be given a promo code at orientation. Visit the campus Computer Store for discounts on computers or software. Malpractice liability insurance: Students entering the 2-year program will receive a letter about this from the Office of Field Education before orientation. International students: Begin the new international student check-in with Texas Global. More to Explore Discover Austin We’re proud to call the bustling city of Austin our home. Get inspired by its vibrant music and arts scene, entrepreneurial spirit and surrounding natural beauty. Go Financial resources Find information about financial aid, fellowships, scholarships and other financial resources. Go Housing and roomates Tips and guides for off-campus living resources, including housing and roomate searches. Go Join Us Academic Programs Apply About Us Contact Us Quick links Directory Institutes and Centers DiNitto Career Center Office of Professional Development Give 1925 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-5457 Back to Top Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Steve Hicks School of Social Work © 2022 | All Rights Reserved