Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Sophomore College Search this site Submit Search Menu Home What Is SoCo? SoCo Calendar What Students Say Program Cost and Financial Support After You're Accepted Accommodation Requests Living and Eating On Campus Get Your Move On SoCo in the News Inside SoCo Admit Guide to SoCo Photo Gallery 2022 Courses An Exploration of Art Materials Classical California Deliberative Democracy Desert Biogeography of Joshua Tree Dream It, Build It! Energy in Hawaii Evolution and Conservation in Galápagos French Immersion Guaranteed Income Learning Theater LGBT History and Culture in the Bay Area Natural History, Marine Biology, and Research Needs Finding in Healthcare Policing and Violence in Latin America Spanish Immersion Remix | Writing and Reading the DJ The Cult of Happiness The Face of Battle Who Belongs at Stanford? Apply Apply Student Applicant How to Apply to SoCo Eligibility and Commitment Tips on Applying Staff SoCo Being an SCA Submit an SCA Application Submit Transcript For SCA Application For Graduate SCA Applicants Waitlisted? Didn't Apply? Second Round Applications Withdrawing from the Sophomore College Program Teach Second-Round Applications are rolling.... Some classes have open spots or very short waitlists--check them out in second-round applications! Second-Round Applications Main content start Why SoCo? SoCo is more than a class—it's an experience. The immersive, three-week residential classes often include field trips and hands-on learning outside the classrom, creating a connection with your SoCo faculty and life-long friendships. Enjoy small class sizes and the chance to focus deeply on a field that interests you. Intrigued? Sign up to be notified of info sessions and updates. After You're Accepted What Comes Next? Spring Considerations After You're Accepted Your Sophomore Summer The SoCo Calendar After You're Accepted We Room With Our Classmates? Living and Eating On Campus considering SoCo? Info Sessions & Fast Facts Info Session through your UAD on Friday, March 4. Tell Me All About SoCo! considering SoCo? Applying to SoCo Application due Tuesday, April 5, 2022. Application Tips considering SoCo? Does SoCo Cost Money? SoCo is a bargain for all, and also provides need-based support with the fee. SoCo is VERY Affordable what students say... "one of the best decisions I could've made" When I look back at my sophomore year, choosing to do SoCo was one of the best decisions I could've made; I found lifelong friends within my cohort, gained mentors I continue to learn from, and created memories to cherish for a very long time. If given the chance, I would do it all over again in a heartbeat. Betty Lee, '21 More from SoCo students Stanford Sophomore College Web Login Address Sophomore College Sweet Hall, 2nd Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3082 United States Campus Map Contact Us (650) 724-4667 SoCo Instagram General Inquiries (will reach both staff members) sophcollege@stanford.edu (650) 724-4667 SIS Associate Director Dayo Mitchell (650) 736-0751 dayom@stanford.edu Student Services Officer Adriana Ramirez-Kubo (650) 723-0360 adrianar@stanford.edu Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top