Menu Admissions & Student Life Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Transfer Students and IUT Graduate Admissions & Programs Master’s Programs Certificates of Advanced Study Doctoral Programs Teacher Certification Service & Learning Opportunities Student Organizations Study Abroad Career Development Undergraduate Peer Advisors Learning Communities Spector/Warren Fellowship Orange Holmes Scholars I-MOVE Physical Activity Courses Financial Aid & Scholarships 50% Master’s and C.A.S. Scholarships Baldanza Fellows Program Undergraduate Leadership Scholars Endowed Scholarships Field Placements & Internships Bridge to the City Transportation Information & Guidelines Research & Creative Work Projects, Partnerships, & Outreach Atrocity Studies Annual Lecture Clinical Simulations International Partnerships I-MOVE Physical Activity Courses Keith Distinguished Speaker Series Landscape of Urban Education Lectures Leadership & Public Service High School Lesson Study Otto’s Fall Reading Kickoff SAT Prep Workshops The Study Council Tolley Medal Writing Our Lives Laboratories & Clinics Psycho-Educational Teaching Laboratory Research & Publications Resources & Support Office of Professional Research and Development Departments & Centers Academic Departments Counseling & Human Services Cultural Foundations of Education Higher Education Instructional Design, Development and Evaluation Reading & Language Arts Teaching & Leadership Administrative Offices Office of the Dean Academic & Student Services Advancement & Alumni Relations Business Services Career Services & Certification Marketing, Communications, and Events Technology Support Group Centers & Institutes Center for Academic Achievement and Student Development Center on Disability and Inclusion Center for Experiential Pedagogy and Practice Intergroup Dialogue Program Lender Center for Social Justice News & Events Latest News Upcoming Events Social Media SOE in the News Education Exchange Magazine Information For Future Students Current Students International Students Alumni & Friends Media & Press Faculty & Staff About From the Dean Administration Accessibility Accreditation Directory Facilities Contact Us Search the School of Education Request Info Apply For Media Give Now MENUMENU Admissions & Student Life Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Transfer Students and IUT Graduate Admissions & Programs Master’s Programs Certificates of Advanced Study Doctoral Programs Teacher Certification Financial Aid & Scholarships 50% Master's and C.A.S. Scholarships Baldanza Fellows Program Undergraduate Leadership Scholars Endowed Scholarships Field Placements & Internships Bridge to the City Transportation Information & Guidelines Service & Learning Opportunities Student Organizations Study Abroad Career Development Undergraduate Peer Advisors Learning Communities Spector/Warren Fellowship Orange Holmes Scholars I-MOVE Physical Activity Courses Research & Creative Work Projects, Partnerships, & Outreach Atrocity Studies Annual Lecture Clinical Simulations International Partnerships I-MOVE Physical Activity Courses Keith Distinguished Speaker Series Landscape of Urban Education Lectures Leadership & Public Service High School Lesson Study Otto’s Fall Reading Kickoff SAT Prep Workshops The Study Council Tolley Medal Writing Our Lives Laboratories & Clinics Psycho-Educational Teaching Laboratory Research & Publications Resources & Support Office of Professional Research and Development Departments & Centers Academic Departments Counseling & Human Services Cultural Foundations of Education Higher Education Instructional Design, Development and Evaluation Reading & Language Arts Teaching & Leadership Administrative Offices Office of the Dean Academic & Student Services Advancement & Alumni Relations Business Services Career Services & Certification Marketing, Communications, and Events Technology Support Group Centers & Institutes Center for Academic Achievement and Student Development Center on Disability and Inclusion Center for Experiential Pedagogy and Practice Intergroup Dialogue Program Lender Center for Social Justice News & Events Latest News Upcoming Events Social Media SOE in the News Education Exchange Magazine Information For Future Students Current Students International Students Alumni & Friends Media & Press Faculty & Staff About From the Dean Administration Accessibility Accreditation Directory Facilities Contact Us News & Events May 25, 2022 The Bridge Between Military Service and Teaching: It’s Not as Far as You Think Do military veterans make good teachers? This question was posed to two School of Education alumni—one a former US Army pilot and the other a former Air Force systems and IT technician turned linguist—who both now teach in Upstate New York schools. A narrow answer to the question might reference giving and receiving orders as... Read More May 20, 2022 ’Cuse Awards Honor School of Education Student-Athletes ’Cuse Awards celebrate the success of all Syracuse University student-athletes and Orange teams, and the School of Education was well-represented among 2022’s awardees. At the 16th annual awards, held on May 5, the Syracuse Athletics honored outstanding performances on the field of competition, in the classroom, and in the community. Chukwuemeka Kingsley Jonathan ’22 (football)... Read More May 19, 2022 Professor Courtney Mauldin Discusses Teaching Black History in the Wake of Buffalo Shooting Buffalo mass shooting reignites conversations about how racism is taught in classrooms (CNY Central | May 17, 2022) On Saturday a white supremacist targeted Black people in a mass shooting at a Tops supermarket in Buffalo, killing 10 people and injuring three others. The suspected shooter is 18 years old and graduated from high school... Read More May 17, 2022 Professors Ashby, Ferri Weigh In on Section 504 Update For the first time in 45 years, the US Department of Education is planning to update federal mandates for how schools and colleges must accommodate students with disabilities. The department is soliciting public comments about how current regulations can be improved under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. “The passage of Section 504 was a... Read More May 16, 2022 As the School of Education’s Italy Program Returns, Sara Jo Soldovieri ’18, G’19 Reflects on Its Influence Now a doctoral student researching inclusive education, Sara Jo Soldovieri ’18, G’19 was a sophomore when she took “Literacy, Inclusion, and Diversity in Italy,” a study abroad short course offered by the Syracuse University School of Education and Syracuse Abroad. Soldovieri matriculated at Syracuse because of her interest in inclusive education and the University’s deep... Read More May 13, 2022 Professor Rick Wright Jr. G’93: At Home in the Library Libraries have played such an important role in my life that I continue to spend most weekdays in Bird Library. Growing up an African American boy in northeastern North Carolina, libraries were segregated, and we were barred from using the public library. But I had an amazing teacher, Mrs. Spellman, who built a library for... Read More May 12, 2022 The Next STEP: Science and Technology Entry Program Graduates the Class of 2022 Harvard University, Syracuse University, and Le Moyne College. These are the college destinations of the Science and Technology Entry Program (STEP) Class of 2022: Michelle Amponsah and Z’nya Grainger, both seniors at Liverpool (NY) High School, and Tahirah Abdul Qadir, a senior at Syracuse Academy of Science High School. “I am very proud of my... Read More May 11, 2022 Phillandra Smith Finds and Fosters Community at Syracuse University Phillandra Smith hadn’t considered a Ph.D. until a professor at Barry University asked what she would do after finishing a master’s degree. Smith, who is from the Bahamas, had planned to return to the classroom. “This professor was honestly really tough, but she said, ‘I really think you should go on and do a Ph.D.,”... Read More May 10, 2022 SOE Doctoral Students Win Teaching Assistant Excellence Awards Jersey Cosantino (Cultural Foundations of Education), Katie Elizabeth Ducett (Special Education), Waleed Raja (Mathematics Education), and Claudine-Lonjé Williams (Higher Education) are School of Education doctoral students among 31 teaching assistants recognized by the Graduate School at Syracuse University for their outstanding work. This is the 35th year the TA awards program has been conducted. The... Read More May 9, 2022 Math Education Major Lindsay Sheridan ’22 Makes Her Mark The 2022 Make Your Mark campaign is the School of Education community’s time to rise for the next generation. The generosity of SOE donors is making a world of difference for promising students, and one of those is Lindsay Sheridan ’22, a mathematics and mathematics education major from Merrick, Long Island, NY. We caught up... Read More May 5, 2022 Sowing Seeds of Hope: Ashanti Hunter ’22 Wants to Make Urban Schools More Inclusive In Brooklyn’s Fort Greene Park, there’s a small garden where Syracuse University senior Ashanti Hunter ’22 has helped kindergarteners blossom. The children attend Community Roots, a local charter academy that utilizes an outdoor learning approach called Forest School. Last fall, they and Hunter visited the park biweekly and spent one day a week in the... Read More May 4, 2022 SCSD, SU School of Education to Explore Social Justice Through Math at May 7 Event What do food justice and Interstate 81 in Syracuse have to do with math? Explore this and other local social justice questions at a unique and interactive experience—featuring music, food, spoken word, and art—that will bring together Syracuse Central School District (SCSD) and Syracuse University students, teachers, coaches, researchers, and other education stakeholders. “A Sense... Read More May 3, 2022 Music Education Major Ronald Ditchek ’23 Named 2022-2023 Remembrance Scholar Ronald Ditchek, a junior music education major in the Syracuse University College of Visual and Performing Arts and School of Education, is among 35 students named 2022-2023 Remembrance Scholars by the Remembrance Scholar Selection Committee. The scholarships, now in their 33rd year, were founded as a tribute to—and means of remembering—the 35 students who were... Read More May 2, 2022 LSAMP Student David Coghiel ’22 Wins Prestigious NSF Graduate Fellowship Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (LSAMP) student David Coghiel ’22, a civil engineering major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS), is among four Syracuse University students awarded prestigious graduate research fellowships through the National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP). The NSF fellowship recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students... Read More April 29, 2022 Rabia Razzaq G’23 Wins 2022 Intelligence++ Inclusive Design Competition Multidisciplinary designer and master’s degree student Rabia Razzaq has won the 2022 Intelligence++ Showcase Competition, held in the Whitman School of Management on April 26, 2022. The interdisciplinary competition—which encourages design and business students to imagine and create products, devices, and services for persons with disabilities—is the culmination of a two-semester inclusive entrepreneurship and design... Read More April 28, 2022 LSAMP Scholars Present at 2022 Research Symposium The two-part Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (LSAMP) Symposium featured poster presentations by student researchers on April 22 and oral presentations on April 27, 2022. Held in Sims Hall on the Syracuse University campus and supervised by LSAMP Director Tamara Hamilton, this year’s research projects covered topics as diverse as biomechanics, organic chemistry, sociobiology,... Read More Load More Submit SOE News and Events Upcoming Events Jun 02 Underrepresented Student Success Thursday, June 2, 4:00 pm - 4:45 pm Jun 08 School of Education Town Hall for Alumni and Friends Wednesday, June 8, 4:00 pm - 4:45 pm Jun 16 Engaged BIPOC Scholar-Practitioner Program Thursday, June 16, 4:00 pm - 4:45 pm Jun 23 Holocaust and Atrocities Studies with Julia White Thursday, June 23, 4:00 pm - 4:45 pm Jul 04 Independence Day (University closed) Monday, July 4 View More… News Categories Across the University (132) Admissions (17) Alumni (136) Center for Academic Achievement and Student Development (35) Center for Experiential Pedagogy and Practice (25) Center on Disability and Inclusion (67) Counseling & Human Services (54) Cultural Foundations of Education (97) Dean's List (11) Education Exchange (53) Exercise Science (57) Faculty (264) Feature Story (157) Hidden (3) Higher Education (43) Instructional Design Development & Evaluation (42) Lender Center for Social Justice (9) News (623) Newsletter (13) Reading & Language Arts (104) Research (178) SOE in the Community (120) SOE in the News (91) Students (217) Teaching & Leadership (253) Departments Counseling & Human Services Cultural Foundations of Education Higher Education Instructional Design, Development & Evaluation Reading & Language Arts Teaching & Leadership About Us About the SOE Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Event Calendar Latest News Accreditation Contact Us Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Flickr ©2019 Syracuse University School of Education | Accessibility | Privacy