Skip to main School of Education College of Health and Human Sciences Main Navigation About Us Academics Advising Research and Scholarship Community Engagement Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Visit Give Menu Search Main Navigation About Us Academics Advising Research and Scholarship Community Engagement Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Visit Give Search our Site Go School of Education Promoting Innovative Instruction Our programs advance communication and leadership skills in order to support students in becoming successful, effective, and caring educators. COVID-19 Alert Please visit the CSU COVID Information & Resources website for more information on CSU’s pandemic response. Education Degree Programs We offer high-quality programs that promote innovative instruction and communication skills that support students becoming leaders in their fields. Explore Programs and Degrees Learning Spaces Learning in Action Center for Educator Preparation At Colorado State University, our CEP faculty teach and model education best practices. Our program is built on partnerships with local school districts. Our future teachers gain experience in real schools with real students. Counseling and Career Development Clinic A training and research clinic staffed by our Counseling and Career Development master’s students (under the direct supervision of licensed mental health professionals), the clinic offers outpatient counseling services to the public, free of charge. Connecting to the Community Career Opportunities Our program prepares you to be a high-qualified teacher, superintendent, principal, or another kind of leader in education. You gain skills to direct educational programs, become a facilitator of educational change, and implement new approaches to solving the problems confronting education. Community Outreach The partnership established between CSU and the Poudre School District offers our licensure students the opportunity to work in real classrooms with PK-12 students, ensuring they are highly prepared to enter the profession. This partnership also benefits PK-12 teachers and students, providing extra help in district classrooms and strong applicants to open teaching positions. School of Education Alumni We hope you will stay connected with your alma mater, the School of Education, and your fellow students. The connections you made – and those you rekindle – are an important part of what makes your CSU experience unique and meaningful. In this Section Career Opportunities Center for Educator Preparation Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice Apply to the School of Education Faculty and Staff Directory Forms and Policy Documents Give to Education Our Alumni Student Organizations and Involvement Contact Us Education Main Office Physical Location: 209 Education Building 450 W Pitkin St. Hours: Monday-Friday 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Mailing Address: 1588 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-1588 Phone: (970) 491-6317 Email: soeinfo@colostate.edu SOE Facebook SOE Twitter SOE Instagram SOE LinkedIn SOE Flickr SOE Newsletter Map to Education Building 816 undergraduate and graduate students $100,000+ in annual STEM Scholarships funded by CSU College of Natural Sciences 96% of our PK-12 educators get teaching jobs after graduation Making an Impact School of Education News Read More News School of Education Upcoming Events Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba OUR HOME College of Health and Human Sciences Education is one of eight academic units housed within the College of Health and Human Sciences. About CHHS We improve health and well-being in all aspects of the human experience. Our goal is to change lives for the better. CHHS Academics Whether you’re building technical skills for a chosen profession or following a passion for helping people, each of our majors and degrees are designed around making connections while you learn — with faculty, employers, professionals, and people in the community. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice in CHHS We emphasize a caring and supportive community where everyone’s contributions are valued and all voices are heard. Research and Creative Scholarship in CHHS As a human-centered college, we believe that research should not only contribute to scientific knowledge, but also be translated into programs, policies, and applications that put that knowledge to work. Visit CHHS Home School of Education 209 Education Building 450 W Pitkin St. 1588 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, Colorado 80523-1588 (970) 491-6317 soeinfo@colostate.edu Info For Health and Human Sciences Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty Emeriti and Retirees Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Quicklinks for Health and Human Sciences Career Development Citrix College Communicators Toolbox Commencement COVID-19 Resources Giving People Directory Technology Webmail Follow Health and Human Sciences News Events Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Pinterest Twitter YouTube Accessibility Statement Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement © 2022 College of Health and Human Sciences. All rights reserved.