Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Texas A&M Forest Service Texas A&M Veterinary Medical Diagnostics Laboratory Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service Texas A&M AgriLife Research Texas A&M College of Agrculture and Life Sciences Texas A&M College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Department of Soil and Crop Sciences Search this website Menu Home About Directions History Mission & Vision Support Soil & Crop Sciences Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Distance Education Research Extension People Faculty Faculty Alphabetically Faculty by Locations Faculty by Specialty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Staff Extension Program Specialist / Research Scientist Graduate Students Jobs Internships andStudent worker positions Jobs – All Degrees Jobs – Bachelor’s Degree Jobs – Master’s Degree Jobs – Ph.D. Faculty Positions within Soil and Crop Sciences-TAMU Support Soil & Crop Sciences Media Aggie Agenda Departmental News Plant Breeding Bulletin Seminar Videos Soil and Crop Sciences Videos Social Media Facebook page Flickr photos Twitter Youtube videos Contact Links Search this website The May 2022 Newsletter is now available! Congratulations Spring 2022 Graduates! Why are my tomato leaves curling? New Tamrun peanut varieties announced Department Recognizes Students at Spring Banquet Texas A&M AgriLife-bred wheat varieties top Texas producer choices March/April 2022 Newsletter Now Available SCSC professor Briana Wyatt is part of a team working to sustain the Currizo-Wilcox aquifer Redmon, Adak Receive Vice Chancellor's Awards in Excellence SCSC announces awards during annual meeting Palmer amaranth control matters – throughout life cycle Soil and Crop Sciences faculty are conducting collaborative research on the use of adaptive swarm robotics in agriculture The Soil and Crop Sciences Department is one of the largest such departments in the nation and is preeminent throughout the world. Our world-famous faculty has a presence in every county in Texas. Working in partnership with Texas A&M AgriLife Research and the Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service, their goal is to conduct research through trials and experimentation and then transfer that new knowledge to the public. We offer Bachelor of Science degrees in Plant and Environmental Soil Science and Turfgrass Science. Students can earn a Master of Science and a doctorate in agronomy, Food Science and Technology, Genetics, Molecular and Environmental Plant Sciences, Plant Breeding, and Soil Science. Most of our undergraduates are from Texas, but students represent some 20 different countries in addition to the United States. Jobs Faculty positions available Staff positions available Featured Sites Aggie Turf Cotton: Texas is Cotton Country! Forages: They’re Good For Life! Nutrient Management Planning Root Notes Soil, Water and Forage Testing Laboratory Variety Testing Information Coronavirus Connect With Us Email Facebook Flickr YouTube Department News Congratulations Spring 2022 Graduates May 10, 2022 Department Recognizes Students at Spring Banquet April 18, 2022 Texas A&M AgriLife-bred wheat varieties top Texas producer choices March 24, 2022 Scholarship established in memory of Allen Mengers February 28, 2022 SCSC announces awards during annual meeting January 20, 2022 Compact with Texans Privacy and Security Accessibility Policy State Link Policy Statewide Search Veterans Benefits Military Families Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Equal Opportunity Open Records/Public Information