Skip to main content Yale SOM Shield Yale School of Management Menu Yale SOM Shield Yale School of Management Menu Academic Programs Academic Programs < Back MBA Two-year program for leaders in all industries. MBA for Executives Rigorous executive MBA for accomplished professionals. Master of Advanced Management MBA graduates of top international schools spend a year at Yale. Master's in Asset Management Intensive introduction to investing with leading faculty and practitioners. Master's in Global Business & Society A year of advanced leadership training for Global Network MiM graduates. Master's in Public Education Management Master's Degree in Public Education Management Master's in Systemic Risk Specialized program for developing leaders in government agencies that manage systemic risk. Joint Degrees Environment, Global Affairs, Medicine, Law, Public Health, Architecture, Drama, Divinity, PhD Silver Scholars for College Seniors Opportunity for college seniors to immediately pursue a Yale MBA. Doctoral Programs Accounting, Financial Economics, Marketing, Operations, and Organizations and Management Emerging Leaders Seminar Two-day intensive introduction to using entrepreneurial and innovative strategies in management The SOM Experience Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives < Back The Broad Center Transformative leadership for public education Yale Center for Customer Insights Advancing the frontiers of consumer understanding International Center for Finance Support for research in financial economics Program on Entrepreneurship Creating entrepreneurs for business & society Program on Social Enterprise Harnessing business skills and markets for social objectives Program on Financial Stability Improving our understanding and management of systemic risk Center for Business and the Environment Business solutions to systemic environmental problems Chief Executive Leadership Institute The world’s first school for CEOs Thurman Arnold Project Research related to competition and antitrust enforcement Yale Center Beijing Developing leaders from all regions of the globe China India Insights Program Delivering new thinking on China, India, and emerging markets Initiative on Leadership and Organization Multidisciplinary understanding of leadership and organizations SOM Lab An interdepartmental behavioral lab Y-Rise Research Initiative on Innovation & Scale Developing the science behind scaling up policy interventions Faculty & Research Executive Education Executive Education < Back Executive Education Enhance your leadership and management skills Digital Programs Cutting-edge faculty insights available through the latest online learning tools For Individuals Find the right program for your leadership journey For Companies Top-quality training designed for the needs of your organization Fellowship for Public Education Leadership Fellowship for Public Education Leadership Partner Programs Executive education partner programs Veterans Benefits Yale SOM is proud to support funding opportunities for military professionals COVID-19 Updates on Yale’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic About us About us Contact Contact Executive Education Alumni Alumni < Back Alumni Alumni Directory Career Alumni Headlines Events & Reunion Stay Connected About Main navigation - Extra SOM Portal Giving Career Development Yale Insights Home About Yale SOM Plan a Visit About the Building Menu Close menu About SOM About News News News Yale Insights Yale Insights Podcasts Yale SOM Podcasts Events Events Listing Yale SOM Speaker Series Plan a Visit Plan a Visit Plan a Visit About the Building About the Building Using Evans Hall Using Evans Hall School Leadership & Boards Dean’s Office & Senior Staff School Leadership & Boards Boards & Councils Yale SOM Board of Advisors Yale SOM Board of Advisors Greater China Board of Advisors Greater China Board of Advisors Yale SOM Mexico Board of Advisors Yale SOM Mexico Board of Advisors Yale SOM West Coast Advisory Board Yale SOM West Coast Advisory Board Yale SOM Alumni Advisory Board Yale SOM Alumni Advisory Board Yale SOM Council of Global Advisors Yale SOM Council of Global Advisors Center Leadership Center Leadership Student Government Student Government Support Yale SOM Work at Yale SOM Hire from Yale SOM Yale SOM Store Contact The 225,000-square-foot Edward P. Evans Hall, the home of the Yale School of Management, opened in January 2014. The building is situated at the northern end of the Yale University campus at 165 Whitney Avenue. With its striking modern design, glass façade, and large courtyard, Evans Hall has taken its place among the architectural landmarks that distinguish the Yale campus. Take a Virtual Tour Architecture + Design Edward P. Evans Hall was designed by Foster + Partners, the prominent firm chaired by Pritzker Architecture Prize Laureate Lord Norman Foster ARCH ’62. The building's design emphasizes transparency and creates spaces for collaboration. Sustainability From building materials to water and energy consumption, Evans Hall employs the latest technology in its cutting-edge, sustainable design. Sustainable Site Native vegetation reduces maintenance and irrigation requirements, underground parking reduces the heat island effect, stormwater collection tank and infiltration beds reduce runoff, covered parking is provided for 104 bicycles with shower/changing rooms, and infrastructure exists for electric vehicle charging stations. Water Efficiency Low-flow plumbing fixtures and reduced outdoor irrigation reduce the demand for water at Evans Hall. Energy & Atmosphere Chilled beams and radiant floor systems reduce energy consumption; fans and pumps are controlled by variable frequency drives to reduce electricity use; solar shading, high-performance windows, and reflective roof all reduce heating and cooling loads; daylight-controlled LED lighting with dimming controls reduce electricity use; garage ventilation is controlled by carbon monoxide sensors; and refrigerants avoid use of CFCs to reduce impacts on global warming and ozone depletion. Dining Services In all of its operations—including the popular Evans Hall Café coffee shop and the full menus and hot meals in Charley's Place, a full-service dining hall—the Yale SOM dining team uses ingredients efficiently, emphasizes recycling and composting, and spotlights local products. Materials & Resources About 75% of construction and demolition debris was diverted from landfills, many building materials (such as steel and concrete) utilize substantial recycled content, most wood is FSC-certified, and over 10% of materials were procured from within 500 miles of New Haven. Indoor Environment Quality Adhesives, sealants, paints, coatings, and flooring systems contain low levels of volatile organic compounds, a building flush-out was conducted prior to occupancy, and carbon dioxide sensors adjust fresh air volumes to the occupancy load. Campus features Spaces for learning The design of Evans Hall is directly inspired by the need for a teaching and learning environment to support the school’s integrated MBA curriculum. The campus features 16 classrooms of varying layouts and sizes, developed after an extensive study of the distinctive Yale learning experience. Breakout rooms, lounges, the library, and other common spaces—as well as faculty offices—are positioned to maximize interchange and collaboration, hallmarks of the school’s integrated approach to MBA education. A central courtyard At the center of Edward P. Evans Hall is an enclosed courtyard, which acts as the heart of the school, providing outdoor space to study and socialize. The courtyard, glass façade, and open layout allows people to see from one area to another across the campus, creating a unifying effect, a sense that activities throughout the building are interconnected. The expansive courtyard links Evans Hall architecturally to other Yale buildings built around courtyards, such as the Sterling Law Building and the residential colleges. Evans Hall Yale School of Management Educating leaders for business and society. Edward P. Evans Hall 165 Whitney Avenue New Haven, CT 06511-3729 Global Network of Advanced Management Get Yale SOM News Apply Now Footer navigation Business & Society Programs Case Studies Giving Contact SOM Directory Alumni Directory Campus Groups Recruiters Yale Insights The Global Network Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Facebook YouTube © Copyright 2022 Yale School of Management. All rights reserved. Site Map Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Created by potrace 1.11, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2013