Skip to main content Yale SOM Shield Yale School of Management Menu Yale SOM Shield Yale School of Management Menu Academic Programs Academic Programs < Back MBA Two-year program for leaders in all industries. MBA for Executives Rigorous executive MBA for accomplished professionals. Master of Advanced Management MBA graduates of top international schools spend a year at Yale. Master's in Asset Management Intensive introduction to investing with leading faculty and practitioners. Master's in Global Business & Society A year of advanced leadership training for Global Network MiM graduates. Master's in Public Education Management Master's Degree in Public Education Management Master's in Systemic Risk Specialized program for developing leaders in government agencies that manage systemic risk. Joint Degrees Environment, Global Affairs, Medicine, Law, Public Health, Architecture, Drama, Divinity, PhD Silver Scholars for College Seniors Opportunity for college seniors to immediately pursue a Yale MBA. Doctoral Programs Accounting, Financial Economics, Marketing, Operations, and Organizations and Management Emerging Leaders Seminar Two-day intensive introduction to using entrepreneurial and innovative strategies in management The SOM Experience Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives < Back The Broad Center Transformative leadership for public education Yale Center for Customer Insights Advancing the frontiers of consumer understanding International Center for Finance Support for research in financial economics Program on Entrepreneurship Creating entrepreneurs for business & society Program on Social Enterprise Harnessing business skills and markets for social objectives Program on Financial Stability Improving our understanding and management of systemic risk Center for Business and the Environment Business solutions to systemic environmental problems Chief Executive Leadership Institute The world’s first school for CEOs Thurman Arnold Project Research related to competition and antitrust enforcement Yale Center Beijing Developing leaders from all regions of the globe China India Insights Program Delivering new thinking on China, India, and emerging markets Initiative on Leadership and Organization Multidisciplinary understanding of leadership and organizations SOM Lab An interdepartmental behavioral lab Y-Rise Research Initiative on Innovation & Scale Developing the science behind scaling up policy interventions Faculty & Research Executive Education Executive Education < Back Executive Education Enhance your leadership and management skills Digital Programs Cutting-edge faculty insights available through the latest online learning tools For Individuals Find the right program for your leadership journey For Companies Top-quality training designed for the needs of your organization Fellowship for Public Education Leadership Fellowship for Public Education Leadership Partner Programs Executive education partner programs Veterans Benefits Yale SOM is proud to support funding opportunities for military professionals COVID-19 Updates on Yale’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic About us About us Contact Contact Executive Education Alumni Alumni < Back Alumni Alumni Directory Career Alumni Headlines Events & Reunion Stay Connected About Main navigation - Extra SOM Portal Giving Career Development Yale Insights Home Faculty Directory Kerwin K. Charles Kerwin K. Charles Indra K. Nooyi Dean & Frederic D. Wolfe Professor of Economics, Policy & Management Contact kerwin.charles@yale.edu Website CV Kerwin joined Yale in 2019 as the Indra K. Nooyi Dean and Frederic D. Wolfe Professor of Economics, Policy, and Management at the Yale School of Management (SOM). Previously, he was the Edwin A. and Betty L. Bergmann Distinguished Service professor at the University of Chicago. He has studied and published on a range of topics including earnings and wealth inequality, conspicuous consumption, race and gender labor market discrimination, health and the labor market, the effects of housing booms and busts, and non-employment in the economy. Among other professional duties, he recently served as the vice president of the American Economics Association, and is on the Board of several academic and nonprofit entities. He is also a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, and an elected fellow of the Society of Labor Economics. Education PhD, Cornell University, 1996 MS, Cornell University, 1993 BS, University of Miami, 1989 Selected Works Articles Demand Conditions and Worker Safety: Evidence from Price Shocks in Mining K. K. Charles, M. S. Johnson, M. Stephens Jr., and D. Q. Lee Journal of Labor Economics Volume 40, Issue 1 January 2022 Re-Examining the Contribution of Public Health Efforts and the Decline in Urban Mortality D. M. Anderson, K.K. Charles, and D. Rees American Economic Journal: Applied Economics Volume14, Issue 2, pp. 126-157 April 2022 Leisure Luxuries and the Labor Supply of Young Men M. Aguiar, M. Bils, K. K. Charles, and E. Hurst Journal of Political Economy Volume 129, Issue 2, pp 337-382 2021 Occupational Licensing and Maternal Health: Evidence from Early Midwifery Laws D. M. Anderson, R. Brown, K. K. Charles, and D. I. Rees Journal of Political Economy Volume 128, Issue 11 2020 Housing Booms and Busts, Labor Market Opportunities, and College Attendance K. K. Charles, E. Hurst, and M. J. Notowidigdo American Economic Review Volume 108, Issue 10, pp 2947-94 2018 Divergent Paths: A New Perspective on Earnings Differences Between Black and White Men Since 1940 P. Bayer and K. K. Charles The Quarterly Journal of Economics Volume 133, Issue 3, pp 1459-1501 2018 Conspicuous Consumption and Race K. K. Charles, E. Hurst, and N. Roussanov The Quarterly Journal of Economics Volume 124, Issue 2, pp 425-67 2009 Prejudice and Wages: An Empirical Assessment of Becker’s "The Economics of Discrimination" K. K. Charles and J. Guryan Journal of Political Economy Volume 116, Issue 5, pp 773-809 2008 Working Papers Safeguarding Consumers Through Minimum Quality Standards: Milk Inspections and Urban Mortality, 1880-1910 D. M. Anderson, K. K.Charles, M. McKelligott, and D. I. Rees NBER WP#30063 May 2022 The Federal Effort to Desegregate Southern Hospitals and the Black-White Infant Mortality Gap D.M. Anderson, K. K. Charles, and D.I. Rees 2020 The Effects of Sexism on American Women: The Role of Norms vs. Discrimination K. K. Charles, J. Guryan, and J. Pan 2018 Faculty Category Yale SOM Faculty Faculty Discipline Economics Expertise Economics Labor Issues Boards Vice-chair, NORC Federal Economic Statistics Advisory Committee (FESAC) Board of Trustees, Panel Study of Income Dynamics President, Midwest Economic Association Elected Vice President, American Economic Association Board of Advisors, Aspen Economic Strategy Group Board of Trustees, Yale New Haven Hospital Board of Directors, New Profit Foundation Board of Advisors, The Connecticut Project Board of Advisors, International Rescue Committee Editorships Industrial and Labor Relations Review, International Editorial Board Journal of Labor Economics, Editorial Board Journal of Economic Perspectives, Advisory Board Related News "Economist Kerwin Charles Named Yale SOM Dean," Yale News, March 5, 2019 Media Inquiries Contact Emily Gordon Senior Associate Director, Media Relations & Faculty Research emily.gordon@yale.edu +1 (203) 432-6521 Yale School of Management Educating leaders for business and society. Edward P. Evans Hall 165 Whitney Avenue New Haven, CT 06511-3729 Global Network of Advanced Management Get Yale SOM News Apply Now Footer navigation Business & Society Programs Case Studies Giving Contact SOM Directory Alumni Directory Campus Groups Recruiters Yale Insights The Global Network Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Facebook YouTube © Copyright 2022 Yale School of Management. All rights reserved. Site Map Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Created by potrace 1.11, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2013