Skip to main content Yale SOM Shield Yale School of Management Menu Yale SOM Shield Yale School of Management Menu Academic Programs Academic Programs < Back MBA Two-year program for leaders in all industries. MBA for Executives Rigorous executive MBA for accomplished professionals. Master of Advanced Management MBA graduates of top international schools spend a year at Yale. Master's in Asset Management Intensive introduction to investing with leading faculty and practitioners. Master's in Global Business & Society A year of advanced leadership training for Global Network MiM graduates. Master's in Public Education Management Master's Degree in Public Education Management Master's in Systemic Risk Specialized program for developing leaders in government agencies that manage systemic risk. Joint Degrees Environment, Global Affairs, Medicine, Law, Public Health, Architecture, Drama, Divinity, PhD Silver Scholars for College Seniors Opportunity for college seniors to immediately pursue a Yale MBA. Doctoral Programs Accounting, Financial Economics, Marketing, Operations, and Organizations and Management Emerging Leaders Seminar Two-day intensive introduction to using entrepreneurial and innovative strategies in management The SOM Experience Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives < Back The Broad Center Transformative leadership for public education Yale Center for Customer Insights Advancing the frontiers of consumer understanding International Center for Finance Support for research in financial economics Program on Entrepreneurship Creating entrepreneurs for business & society Program on Social Enterprise Harnessing business skills and markets for social objectives Program on Financial Stability Improving our understanding and management of systemic risk Center for Business and the Environment Business solutions to systemic environmental problems Chief Executive Leadership Institute The world’s first school for CEOs Thurman Arnold Project Research related to competition and antitrust enforcement Yale Center Beijing Developing leaders from all regions of the globe China India Insights Program Delivering new thinking on China, India, and emerging markets Initiative on Leadership and Organization Multidisciplinary understanding of leadership and organizations SOM Lab An interdepartmental behavioral lab Y-Rise Research Initiative on Innovation & Scale Developing the science behind scaling up policy interventions Faculty & Research Executive Education Executive Education < Back Executive Education Enhance your leadership and management skills Digital Programs Cutting-edge faculty insights available through the latest online learning tools For Individuals Find the right program for your leadership journey For Companies Top-quality training designed for the needs of your organization Fellowship for Public Education Leadership Fellowship for Public Education Leadership Partner Programs Executive education partner programs Veterans Benefits Yale SOM is proud to support funding opportunities for military professionals COVID-19 Updates on Yale’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic About us About us Contact Contact Executive Education Alumni Alumni < Back Alumni Alumni Directory Career Alumni Headlines Events & Reunion Stay Connected About Main navigation - Extra SOM Portal Giving Career Development Yale Insights International Center for Finance Menu Close menu International Center for Finance International Center for Finance About About About Leadership Leadership ICF Fellows ICF Executive Fellows ICF Schoen Fellows ICF Postdoctoral Fellows ICF Postdoctoral Fellows ICF Student Fellows ICF Advisory Board ICF Advisory Board ICF Research Associates ICF Research Associates Contact Contact Research & Initiatives Research & Initiatives Research & Initiatives Future of Global Finance Project Overview Distinguished Panel Discussion Interviews Research & References Contact Behavioral Finance Research Behavioral Research Projects Yale Summer School in Behavioral Finance Lynne & Andrew Redleaf Foundation Student Fellows Financial History Research Financial History Research Student Initiatives Student Initiatives COVID-19 COVID-19 COVID-19 COVID-19 Finance Faculty Media Coverage COVID-19 Finance Faculty Media Coverage COVID-19 Finance Working Papers COVID-19 Finance Working Papers Data Data Data Historical Financial Research Data London Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange New York Stock Exchange New York Stock Exchange Shanghai Stock Exchange Project Shanghai Stock Exchange Project St. Petersburg Stock Exchange Project St. Petersburg Stock Exchange Project South Sea Bubble 1720 Project South Sea Bubble 1720 Project Cowles Data Cowles Data Stock Market Confidence Indices United States Stock Market Confidence Indices United States Stock Market Confidence Indices Japan Stock Market Confidence Indices Japan Stock Market Confidence Indices Publications ICF Case Studies News Events Events Events Conferences Seminars Providing academic and professional support for research in financial economics. What is the Yale International Center for Finance? International Center for Finance December 13, 2021 NEW Collection of Yale SOM Finance Faculty Covid-19 Working Papers and Media Coverage International Center for Finance December 23, 2020 Origins of Value Virtual Field Trip International Center for FinanceMay 12, 2021 Yale ICF Newsletter: September 2021 International Center for Finance September 30, 2021 Previous Next About The International Center for Finance The International Center for Finance (ICF) brings together faculty, students and practitioners to foster leadership in the understanding, practice and management of finance from multiple perspectives. Its goal is to support innovative research and educational activities within the context of Yale School of Management’s broader perspective of business for the benefit of society. Leadership The Center offers data, technology, and support for empirical research and underwrites academic conferences that bring together distinguished researchers to cooperatively develop ideas. Meet our ICF administration. Learn more about the ICF: Behavioral Finance Research Behavioral Finance Research The ICF is a leading center for research in behavioral science – specifically, research in the fields of behavioral decision-making, behavioral economics, and behavioral finance. Yale Summer School in Behavioral Finance 2019 Data Data The center has compiled various historical databases which are available to scholars affiliated with the Center. Our website also houses The Investor Behavior Project at Yale University, under the direction of Professor Robert Shiller since its beginning and now under the auspices of the Yale International Center for Finance. Student Initiatives Student Initiatives The ICF plays a major role in supporting the training of MBAs and doctoral students who have focused on issues important to society. Financial History Financial History The ICF is one of the leading centers of research on the history of finance. Origins of Value is an on-line visual database of financial instruments, securities and documents related to the history of financial markets. Share Certificate of Little Miami Railroad Company, June 17,1862 Conferences & Seminars Conferences & Seminars Each year, the ICF organizes a number of academic conferences that bring together distinguished researchers to cooperatively develop ideas in addition to student and practitioner conferences. The FinTech Transformation Conference, 2017 The ICF also offers: The ICF also offers: Research support in the form of dedicated RA’s for Yale SOM finance faculty. Financial and managerial support for the creation of finance case studies. Funding for data sets. Funding for financial history publications. Academic initiatives. Educational workshops. Speaker events open to the Yale SOM and greater Yale communities. Center News Finance Faculty in the News: May 2022 Yale ICF Advisory Board Member Steven H. Kasoff spearheaded oral history project "Inside the CDO Machine" Finance Faculty in the News: April 2022 Connect with us Subscribe ICF Newsletter YBlockchain? Mailing List Twitter @yaleicf YouTube @channel Origins of Value oov.som.yale.edu Yale SOM centers and initiatives The Broad Center Yale Center for Customer Insights Program on Social Enterprise International Center for Finance Program on Financial Stability Program on Entrepreneurship Yale Center Beijing Center for Business and the Environment Chief Executive Leadership Institute Thurman Arnold Project at Yale China India Insights Program Initiative on Leadership and Organization SOM Lab Y-RISE Yale School of Management Educating leaders for business and society. Edward P. Evans Hall 165 Whitney Avenue New Haven, CT 06511-3729 Global Network of Advanced Management Get Yale SOM News Apply Now Footer navigation Business & Society Programs Case Studies Giving Contact SOM Directory Alumni Directory Campus Groups Recruiters Yale Insights The Global Network Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Facebook YouTube © Copyright 2022 Yale School of Management. All rights reserved. Site Map Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Created by potrace 1.11, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2013