Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS Search About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS S.H.A.R.E.™: Simulation Hospital Advancing Research & Education Prepare Today, Lead Tomorrow Learn More Doctoral Programs Next Generation of Research and Teaching Learn More Master's & Post-Master's Programs Ready to Take the Lead Learn More Bachelor's Programs Designed to Meet the Ever-changing Needs of Health Professionals Learn More Transform your future and be part of our family! Come and join us! Become a force in this transformative new era of education and research. Whether you are a current or prospective student, a faculty member, an alum, or a member of our community, discover more about our school through our website, or by visiting us in person. Explore our diverse and nationally accredited programs and be part of the SONHS family. NATIONAL RANKINGS NCLEX First Time Pass Rate: 91% MSN Pass Rate: 94% NIH Funding to Nursing Schools #22, $3.3 Million U.S. News & World Report 2022, Best Nursing Schools BSN #31 MSN #29 DNP #27 Apply Now Meet Our Faculty S.H.A.R.E.™ Connect to Alumni Our Commitment to Diversity Hemispheric and Global Initiatives Making the World a Healthier and Safer Place for All Learn More Research at SONHS Visioning the Practice of Nursing for the Future Learn More Colloquium 2022 The XVII Pan American Nursing Research Colloquium - November 6-10, 2022. Learn More Measures Library Advancing capacity for research with non-English speaking participants Learn More SONHS News Mental Health Awareness in May If you haven’t already, join the national movement this month to raise awareness about mental health, including supporting efforts to fight stigma, educate the public, and advocate for policies that help people with mental illness and their families. For more information on how to get help, visit mentalhealth.gov/get-help. To learn more about psychiatric-mental health nursing, visit our academics site. SONHS ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Nursing and Health Studies P.O. Box 248153 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3666 305-284-3666 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices