Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane SoPA News Request Information Visit Information For... Search Information for... Career Advising Appointments News Career Development Events Faculty & Staff Visitors Alumni Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SoPA Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Advisors, Faculty, & Staff Advisory Boards Blogs Campus Locations Events News SoPA Honors Students & Alumni Support Our Mission Who We Are Why SoPA? Work at SoPA Degrees & Programs Accelerated Masters’ Programs Bachelor's Degrees Certificates Degree Requirements Master's Degrees Minors Programs of Study Online Explore SoPA All Degrees & Certificates Graduate Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Admissions Admissions Process Application Credit for Life & Work Financial Assistance Important Deadlines Non-degree Seeking Graduate Transfer Student Information Tuition & Fees Webinars Student Info Academic Calendars Credit for Life & Work Forms Military Students New Student Orientation Guide Online Learning Student Guide Policies Register for Classes Searchable SoPA Schedule of Classes SoPA Catalog Student Support and Success Newsletter Tech Help Tulane University Student Resources Career Development Career Advising Appointments Career Development Events Career Planning Industry Focused Career Resources About Degrees & Programs Online Explore SoPA Admissions Student Info Career Development Apply Give to Tulane SoPA News Request Information Visit Information For... Close Career Advising Appointments News Career Development Events Faculty & Staff Visitors Alumni Close Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SoPA Tulane A-Z Home /Admissions /Financial Assistance Learn More Take the Next Step Loading... By submitting this form, you agree to receive information about the Tulane School of Professional Advancement’s programs via email, phone and/or text. You may opt out at any time. Financial Aid Eligibility Types of Assistance Scholarships & Discounts Employer Reimbursement Financial Assistance Options for Students The Tulane School of Professional Advancement offers financial aid assistance to help cover educational costs for students who qualify. Financial aid helps students handle the costs of tuition, room and board, books, fees, transportation to and from school, and personal expenses. Explore your eligibility options and the types of financial aid we offer at SoPA. Financial Aid Eligibility For detailed information on financial aid and the application process, please visit the Tulane Financial Aid Website. Pursuing a degree or certification from SoPA is an investment in your future. That's why we want every student who is eligible to be able to supplement the cost of their education with financial help. Whether you are a new or returning Tulane student, we are committed to helping you understand how financial aid works. In most cases, federal aid is awarded based on financial need. Need determinations are based on the data you provide on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Applicants who plan to seek federal financial aid are strongly advised to apply at least six weeks before the start of the semester. The deadline for all applications is January 1 for the spring semester, May 1 for the summer semester, and August 1 for the fall semester. Other eligibility requirements to note include the following: TOPS Eligibility You must be a U.S. Citizen or Permanent Resident You must be enrolled in an academic program at SoPA You must not be in default on a prior educational loan or owe a repayment on a federal grant You must be registered with the Selective Service (if required to register) Continuing students must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) standards First time freshmen enrolling at SoPA as full-time students are eligible for TOPS. SoPA students are considered full-time students for tops if they complete at least 24 credit hours their first year of enrollment. For more information please visit the TOPS website or contact your SoPA advisor. Types of Financial Assistance Available There are three main types of aid available to students—grants, loans, and scholarships. Grants, such as the Federal Pell Grant and the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, are funds that do not need to be repaid. Available federal loans include Federal Direct Loans, Federal Perkins Loans, Federal Direct PLUS Loans, as well as alternative, credit-based loans that are not part of the federal program. Scholarships from SoPA are in the form of tuition discounts or lump sums applied towards tuition costs. Your financial advisor will help assist you in determining which type of aid is available and best suited to your pursuits. View our costs for undergraduate and graduate tuition, as well as associated fees and other expenses. Scholarships SoPA offers several scholarship programs, including discounts on tuition, student scholarships, and external scholarships. 20% Tuition Discount Scholarships* SoPA strongly believes in making a Tulane education affordable. SoPA is proud to offer 20% discounts on tuition to students who meet the following requirements. Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Level Courses Adults over the age of 60 Active and retired public safety personnel (firefighter, police officer, or paramedic) Full-time teachers and paraprofessionals, including classroom assistants and assistant teachers City, Parish, Sheriff’s Office, and Housing Authority employees Active-duty military personnel** Veterans** Students whose associate degree was conferred by a Minority Serving Institution Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) members Alumni who earned a degree from any school within Tulane University (discount takes place starting Spring 2022) Tulane SoPA adjunct faculty currently teaching a course at SoPA Graduate-Level Courses Active-duty military personnel** Active and retired public safety personnel (firefighter, police officer, or paramedic) Students whose undergraduate degree was conferred by a Minority Serving Institution Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) members Alumni who earned a degree from any school within Tulane University (discount takes place starting Spring 2022) Tulane SoPA adjunct faculty currently teaching a course at SoPA National League of Cities University partnership referral to the MPA program New Leaders Council partnership referral to the MPA program * 20% discounts cannot be combined with each other (i.e. a student can only claim one type of 20% discount), but may be combined with scholarships. If 100% of your tuition is covered by a Tulane tuition waiver or scholarship, you are not eligible for a tuition discount. ** Both veterans and active duty military service members must provide a copy of your award letter indicating you have exhausted all of your educational benefits in order to receive this discount. 20% tuition discount form Early Enrollment Scholarship The early enrollment scholarship is available to all first-time students entering SoPA who register for their first semester of classes by the scholarship deadlines. This is a one-time scholarship and the amount of the scholarship will be applied towards their first semester's tuition. The early enrollment scholarship is $500 for graduate students and $200 for undergraduate students. SoPA students who enroll in courses by the following dates are eligible for a one-time scholarship. Graduate students will receive $500 and undergraduate students will receive $200. Register for classes early and save money on tuition! Fall Early Enrollment Scholarship deadline June 1 Spring Early Enrollment Scholarship deadline December 1 Summer Early Enrollment Scholarship deadline April 25 Transfer Scholarship Students transferring credit into a Tulane SoPA undergraduate program are eligible to receive a $500 tuition scholarship for three consecutive semesters, for a maximum scholarship of $1,500. Students must: Indicate on their application that they are a transfer student Submit a transcript from a prior undergraduate institution with a grade, credit hours and a course title Show credits from a regionally accredited institution PTK Scholarship SoPA’s Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) honor society scholarship helps fill the gap between tuition and mandatory fees, and awarded financial aid. It can pay for tuition and eligible fee-related expenses at Tulane, and is calculated after all other scholarships, discounts and financial aid for which a student is eligible have been accounted. The scholarship is for up to $1,500 per semester to Tulane SoPA, or $3,000 a year. Visit the PTK page for more information. External Scholarships We have eight scholarship programs designated for current students. Click below for information on the requirements for each scholarship. Scholarship Programs Tulane SoPA also participates in the Post-9/11 GI Bill Yellow Ribbon Program for eligible students enrolling in our master degree programs. Our military benefits page offers detailed information. Some students may be eligible for multiple tuition discounts. Students may only claim one discount. Stacking discounts is not allowed. Employer Reimbursed Tuition Does your employer offer tuition discounts or reimbursement for you to go back to school? If so, Tulane SoPA will defer your tuition charges, according to your employer’s reimbursement schedule, for up to 45 days following the end of the semester. Accounts Receivable accepts employer reimbursement agreements on individual basis. Your employer should have written documentation regarding this benefit and the forms required. Once you gather the forms required from your employer, submit to sopa20@tulane.edu and Accounts Receivable will apply a deferment credit to your account. SoPA Corporate Sponsorship form Helpful Resources for Financial Assistance Our office of financial aid wants to make your financial aid application and approval process as simple and streamlined as possible. You can begin your FAFSA application online at www.fafsa.ed.gov. Your financial aid advisor will review your application and aid package offering, while also assisting with any questions regarding communication with the Department of Veterans Affairs for veterans' discounts. Active Duty Military personnel and veterans can explore the military benefits we proudly offer at our designated Military Friendly® School. Contact SoPA for More Information We know that applying for financial aid can seem daunting. That's why the Tulane School of Professional Advancement is here to help you through the entire process. Your financial aid counselor can assist with the application process, choosing between aid packages, and scholarship and discount opportunities. Net Price Tuition Calculator This calculator is intended to provide estimated net price information. It is provided to help you estimate the cost of attendance — including tuition and required fees, and an industry estimate of books. It does not include other expenses such as specific course lab fees. By clicking below, you acknowledge that the estimate provided using this calculator does not represent any final cost determination or a final net price. Cost of attendance may change year to year. For additional information regarding SoPA tuition and fees, you may read the current information on our website. For financial aid information, you may contact the Tulane Department of Financial Aid directly. Loading... By submitting this form, you agree to receive information about the Tulane School of Professional Advancement’s programs via email, phone and/or text. You may opt out at any time. Uptown Campus Richardson Hall, Bldg. #5 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 (504) 865-5555 Elmwood Campus 800 E. Commerce Rd. Suite 100 Harahan, LA 70123 (504) 865-5333 News Why SoPA? Admissions Degrees & Programs Jobs at Tulane Email Request Information MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Policy Sitemap TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University