Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane SoPA News Request Information Visit Information For... Search Information for... Career Advising Appointments News Career Development Events Faculty & Staff Visitors Alumni Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SoPA Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Advisors, Faculty, & Staff Advisory Boards Blogs Campus Locations Events News SoPA Honors Students & Alumni Support Our Mission Who We Are Why SoPA? Work at SoPA Degrees & Programs Accelerated Masters’ Programs Bachelor's Degrees Certificates Degree Requirements Master's Degrees Minors Programs of Study Online Explore SoPA All Degrees & Certificates Graduate Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Admissions Admissions Process Application Credit for Life & Work Financial Assistance Important Deadlines Non-degree Seeking Graduate Transfer Student Information Tuition & Fees Webinars Student Info Academic Calendars Credit for Life & Work Forms Military Students New Student Orientation Guide Online Learning Student Guide Policies Register for Classes Searchable SoPA Schedule of Classes SoPA Catalog Student Support and Success Newsletter Tech Help Tulane University Student Resources Career Development Career Advising Appointments Career Development Events Career Planning Industry Focused Career Resources About Degrees & Programs Online Explore SoPA Admissions Student Info Career Development Apply Give to Tulane SoPA News Request Information Visit Information For... Close Career Advising Appointments News Career Development Events Faculty & Staff Visitors Alumni Close Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SoPA Tulane A-Z Learn More Take the Next Step Loading... By submitting this form, you agree to receive information about the Tulane School of Professional Advancement’s programs via email, phone and/or text. You may opt out at any time. Degrees & Programs Tuition & Fees Online Learning Apply Now Apply to the Tulane School of Professional Advancement The School of Professional Advancement, or SoPA, is the school at Tulane dedicated to bachelor’s degree completion, graduate study, and certificates programs in applied fields. Take advantage of a potentially life-changing opportunity to further develop your skills and position yourself for career advancement at SoPA, the most current iteration of Tulane’s long-term commitment to working adults. Request information about our degrees and certificates offered online and at New Orleans campuses. REQUEST MORE INFORMATION We Have The Flexibility You Need to Get Your Degree On Campus Online A Combination Tailored to You On Campus Online A Combination Tailored to You Why SoPA? SoPA is dedicated to meeting the needs of working adult students, whether you are early in your career or a seasoned professional. We offer flexible and responsive advisement and support, and online and on-ground courses and programs that fit your busy schedule. Our dedicated faculty brings both high academic qualifications and years of experience in the field to their classes. In joining us, you are also connected to our strong alumni network and to Tulane University—an institution known globally for excellence in higher education. MORE ABOUT SOPA Degrees and Programs Available Bachelor’s degrees, master’s degrees, and certificate programs that in many cases . Classes can be taken at one of our campuses or online. We offer programs in many applied fields, including Information Technology, Public Administration, Business, Emergency and Security Studies, Health and Wellness and Exercise Science, Sport Studies, K-12 Education, Media & Design, Legal Studies, as well as Humanities and Social Sciences degrees specifically geared to the interests of adult students. BACHELOR'S DEGREES MASTER'S DEGREES CERTIFICATES Career Development SoPA offers career and professional development services to help you fulfill your career goals. We can help you identify your strengths and interests, effectively plan for career transitions, further develop and polish your networking and interviewing skills, pursue career opportunities, and build your professional network. You will benefit from our innovative programs, exceptional support, employment opportunities, and alumni connections. SoPA provided me the opportunity to mix in-class experiences with online learning, which made pursuing a degree in Public Relations much more convenient. Jermaine Smith, B.A. Public Relations, ‘20 After years of dissatisfaction and little job security, I turned to Tulane’s School of Continuing Studies (now School of Professional Advancement) to attain a certificate in Paralegal Studies. I received a BA in Paralegal Studies in 2015 and leveraged my BA to enroll in law school. In 2018, I graduated from law school, passed the bar, and am now an assistant district attorney. Oh, and I was 61 when I was sworn in. It is never too late. Janet LaRue, B.A. Paralegal Studies, '15 Upcoming Events Academic Master of Public Administration Residency Program Jun 02 Webinar The “STAR” Interview Method Jun 14 Webinar Digital Open House - Graduate Programs at Tulane SoPA Jun 23 Webinar Digital Open House - Undergraduate Programs at Tulane SoPA Jun 23 View School of Professional Advancement Calendar Explore Our Most Recent Blog Posts Creative Employees Are the Most Sought After, and Here’s Why Take These 3 Steps to Begin Your Career in IT Management The Value of Transferring From a Community College to a University Most Popular Programming Languages for a Career in Web Development SoPA Programs Recognized Many of SoPA's programs have been recognized as among the best in the nation. Read More How Can Going Back to School Increase Your Earning Potential? Median earnings for females 25-34 with a bachelor's degree and full-time employment were 84% higher than for high school graduates. Read More Other Potential Benefits of Earning a Bachelor's Degree 86% of college graduates age 25-32 feel they are in a career or career-track job, while 42% of high school diploma recipients report that their job is just a way "to get them by." Read More How Can a Bachelor's Degree Increase Your Earning Potential? 83% of bachelor’s degree holders feel they have already seen a return on their investment in education. Read More SoPA has ranked #7 in the 25 Best Exercise Science and Kinesiology Bachelor’s Degrees for 2021. Tulane SoPA was recently ranked as one of the best online paralegal degree programs. Tulane SoPA was recently ranked as one of the top 25 online security master's degree programs. Uptown Campus Richardson Hall, Bldg. #5 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 (504) 865-5555 Elmwood Campus 800 E. Commerce Rd. Suite 100 Harahan, LA 70123 (504) 865-5333 News Why SoPA? Admissions Degrees & Programs Jobs at Tulane Email Request Information MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Policy Sitemap TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University