Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Academic Advising Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Meet Your Advisors About Your Advisors Make an Appointment Staff Directory Incoming Students Approaching Stanford Designing Your First Quarter Exploring Your Stanford Courses Frosh 101 Information for Transfer Students Leland Scholars Program Current Students Academic Policy Academic Progress Requests for Exceptions Leaves of Absence Returning to Stanford Advising Resource Toolkit Reflection Throughout Your Time at Stanford Facing Challenges or Difficulty Academic Planning and Intellectual Development Post-Undergraduate Considerations Advising Student Handbook Academic Progress and Policy Course Planning: Basic Tips Course Planning: Expert Mode Enrollment and Using Axess About Introsems Getting Started In... Majors, Minors, Honors, and More Making Connections Doing Research Specific Student Populations Wellness, Resilience, and Academic Success Time Away from Stanford Coterms, Professional Schools, and Ph.D. Programs Choosing Courses Frosh-Friendly Courses One-Unit Wonders and Terrific Twos Courses for General Education Requirements Courses For Your Major My Stanford Story Exploring Stanford First Year Courses FLI at Stanford Frosh Reflections I Am Stanford Majors and Major Decisions Stanford Identities Wellness Stories Why I Teach My Stanford Story Index Specific Student Populations First-Gen/Low-Income (FLI) Students International Students Returning Students Student-Athletes NCAA Eligibility PAE for Student-Athletes Tutorial Resources Transfer Students Beyond Undergrad Considerations for Graduate and Professional Schools Coterminal Degrees Explore Coterm Programs FAQs for Coterms Applying to Coterms Forms for Coterms Degree Conferral Considerations Coterm Tuition and Funding Financial Aid Concerns Planning for Advanced Degrees in Education Planning for Business School Planning for Law School Getting Started Applying to Law School Resources for Pre-Law Students Planning for Medical School Curricular Recommendations Information for Applicants Resources for Pre-Health Students Stanford Immersion in Medicine Series (SIMS) Planning for Ph.D. Programs Faculty and Staff Academic and Extracurricular Options Academic Policy Academic Progress Expectations Requesting an Incomplete Requests for Exception Getting Started Specific Student Populations Working with FLI Students Working with International Students Working with Premed Students Working with Returning Students Working with Students with OAE Accommodations Working with Student-Athletes Supporting Students in Difficulty Information and Resources for Current Students Main content start These resources are designed to help you navigate your Stanford career from matriculation to graduation. Find explanations of academic policy and requirements, answers to common advising questions, resources for choosing courses, and much more! We hope these tools can be a launching pad for the conversations you will have with your Academic Advisors throughout your Stanford career. Choosing Courses Explore resources to help you choose your classes and fulfill requirements through Stanford's rich and diverse course offerings. Get Help Choosing Courses Advising Student Handbook Find answers to frequently asked questions about your academics, and read advice on connecting with faculty, choosing a major, getting started in research, and more. Find Answers and Advice Academic Policy Learn about undergraduate academic policy and find information and forms for requesting an exception here. Understand Academic Policy Advising Resource Toolkit Discover tools and worksheets to help you reflect on your education, plan for your academic future, navigate challenges, and get the most out of your meeting with an Academic Advisor. Explore the Toolkit My Stanford Story Explore unique first-person accounts of Stanford from students, faculty, and staff. Here you can learn from the experiences of others as you contemplate your own Stanford Story. Read My Stanford Stories Specific Student Populations Learn about advising for student-athletes, transfer students, and students returning to Stanford after a long absence. Plus, find useful guides for international students as well as first-gen/low-income (FLI) students! Discover More Resources Additional Resources Coterminal and Pre-Professional Advising Are you looking for information about coterms, pre-med, pre-law, or other post-graduation options? Visit the Beyond Undergrad section of our website to learn more! Explore Stanford Sessions Want to learn more about the opportunities and resources available to you at Stanford? Check out these info sessions brought to you by your Undergraduate Advising Directors! See the list of upcoming events here, and view video recordings of past sessions. Get Involved with Undergraduate Research Thinking about getting started in research? Explore VPUE's Undergraduate Research website, as well as the following Advising Student Handbook pages: Connecting with Faculty How do I get started in research? How do I pursue my own independent project? Stanford Academic Advising Web Login Address Academic Advising Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3082 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us (650) 723-2426 advising@stanford.edu Make an Appointment Links About VPUE About Academic Advising Academic Advising Intranet Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top