Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today School of the Arts College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Search form Search Home About Who We Are News Alumni News Faculty News Media Mentions Student News Contact Us Academics People School of the Arts Administration Alumni & Friends Alumni Give to the School of the Arts Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Graduate Fellowships Internships and Other Professional Development for Students Bringing the Art World to KU: Guest Artists, Speakers, and Residencies Supporting Faculty Research Helps Students Learn and Extends the Audience for the Arts Keep in Touch Alumni Spotlight Liv Grant X Gooding Student Resources Travel Fund General Information Application Procedures FAQ Graduation Student Information Guest Information/FAQ Photography Research Grants Apply for a Grant FAQ Grant Writing Tips Advisory Board Internships & More Arts Engagement Certificate 2020 Graduate Recognition 2020 Graduation LAB Access Faculty Resources Useful links Stop Day Faculty Meeting Graduation Menu Home About Who We Are News Alumni News Faculty News Media Mentions Student News Contact Us Academics People School of the Arts Administration Alumni & Friends Alumni Give to the School of the Arts Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Graduate Fellowships Internships and Other Professional Development for Students Bringing the Art World to KU: Guest Artists, Speakers, and Residencies Supporting Faculty Research Helps Students Learn and Extends the Audience for the Arts Keep in Touch Alumni Spotlight Liv Grant X Gooding Student Resources Travel Fund General Information Application Procedures FAQ Graduation Student Information Guest Information/FAQ Photography Research Grants Apply for a Grant FAQ Grant Writing Tips Advisory Board Internships & More Arts Engagement Certificate 2020 Graduate Recognition 2020 Graduation LAB Access Faculty Resources Useful links Stop Day Faculty Meeting Graduation Search Search form Search Innovate. Perform. Create. Transform. The School of the Arts is the creative heart of KU. We’re discovering the next generation of innovators and creative thinkers. Our classes are small, while the opportunities for personal growth, collaboration, professional networking and innovation are huge. You’ll get all the benefits of a smaller, intimate program together with the amazing resources of a major research institution. 10:1 student to faculty ratio 45+ visiting artists each year 14 academic programs Departments Dance Film & Media Studies Theatre Visual Art The Arts in Action "I love the atmosphere at KU. It felt small, even though it’s a big school, and I really enjoy the traditions here.” -Jillian Armstrong, Dance Learn more about Jillian Barry Noel St. John, a film alum, was a member of the ground-breaking visual effects team for Oscar winner “The Jungle Book.” Learn why Barry is a Hawk to Watch Events Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Department News February 28, 2020 Garrett Claud Q&A February 3, 2020 Prepare for a Career Fair in 5 Easy Steps October 1, 2019 Markus Potter talks directing, mentorship & leading with kindness Read more Contact School of the Arts sota@ku.edu (785) 864-6159 Strong Hall, Room 200 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Connect with the School of the Arts Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login