Skip to main content Colorado State University SOURCE Monday, May 30 Search: Submit Search hamburger College News CSU Magazines CSU Magazine Alumline CSU Life STATE - CSU System Magazine Virtual Events Partnerships For Media Subscribe Submit a Story Construction and Parking News Channels: Close University Source Agricultural Sciences Business Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Office of Engagement and Extension Warner College Dean Announced Dr. A. Alonso Aguirre has been selected as the new dean of the Warner College of Natural Resources Read More about: A greener approach CSU environmental engineers developing tool to sustainably clean water using microbes Read More about: The Art of Influencing Research finds most effective influencer marketing tactics Read More about: Blueberry Health Benefits CSU researcher presents findings in London about blueberries’ lowering effects on cardiovascular disease risk Read More about: Uniting Innovators Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency Forward conference comes to CSU Aug. 30-31 Read More about: Treking to Everest CSU Professor Joel Berger heading to Everest base camp for world’s highest climate conference Read More about: LATEST HEADLINES Two-time CSU alumnus selected as new dean of the Warner College Dr. A. Alonso Aguirre will be the next dean of the Warner College of Natural Resources. Read More Podcast: Two CSU experts discuss the threat of African Swine Fever Hear from CSU Veterinary Extension Specialist Ragan Adams and College of Agricultural Sciences Associate Professor Jennifer Martin on the threat of African Swine Fever and CSU’s role in combating it. Read More CSU environmental engineers developing tool to sustainably clean water using microbes Researchers Susan De Long and Neha Sachdeva are creating a molecular tool to find and measure bacteria that could be key to cleaning our water and protecting human and ecosystem health. Read More CSU researcher presents findings in London about blueberries’ lowering effects on cardiovascular disease risk Consuming blueberries can lower the risk of cardiovascular disease in postmenopausal women with high blood pressure, according to new research by Colorado State University faculty member Sarah Ardanuy Johnson. Read More DARPA Forward conference comes to CSU Aug. 30-31 Colorado State University and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) will host a two-day conference in Fort Collins on Aug. 30-31, the first such event in a series at six universities around the country. Read More CSU Professor Joel Berger heading to Everest base camp for world’s highest climate conference CSU Professor Joel Berger has traveled around the globe studying species in the Arctic, Bhutan, Mongolia and Namibia. Now, the renowned wildlife conservation biologist is heading near the world’s highest point. Read More CSU study finds disparities in natural gas leak prevalence in U.S. urban areas Over a several-year period, natural gas pipeline leaks were more prevalent in neighborhoods with low-income or majority non-white populations than those with high income or predominately white populations. Read More CAMPUS ANNOUNCEMENTS Courageous Strategic Transformation gets thumbs-up from Board of Governors Colorado State University’s plan for Courageous Strategic Transformation received the endorsement of the CSU System Board of Governors. Read More Employee resources to help adults talk to kids about violent events In the wake of recent national events involving violence and loss of life, the Division of Human Resources at Colorado State University is sharing resources available to employees to help them talk to children about violent events. Read More Professor Mary Vogl named as Semester at Sea chief academic officer The Institute for Shipboard Education has named Associate Professor of French Mary Vogl as the new chief academic officer for Semester at Sea. Read More On behalf of the CSU community: Mourning for Uvalde "As with the rest of the nation, we grieve with great intensity today for the children and adults who lost their lives, their families and loved ones, and the entire community of Uvalde, Texas, for yesterday’s horrific elementary school mass shooting." Read More RAM FAMILY One thread at a time: The Patchwork Initiative aims to mend the gaps in clothing sustainability The Patchwork Initiative, a recent addition to CSU and the Fort Collins community, is looking to change the fact that the clothing and textile industry is the world's second-largest poilluter. Read More CSU In Photos The energy on campus during the final few weeks of the Spring Semester at Colorado State University was unparalleled. Take a look back at just a few of the sights in the final installment of CSU in Photos. Read More CSU alum Kimberly Ming to deliver virtual keynote at Womxn of Color Network Summit The CSU community is invited to a public virtual talk with poet and speaker Kimberly Ming at the Womxn of Color Network 2022 Summit on June 2. Read More Rams support Rams: How 3 CSU grads landed at a small TV station in Mississippi Three CSU grads all landed at a small TV station in Mississippi for their first jobs out of college. This unique situation has given them a support system they didn't know they needed. Read More SOMOS Latinx/é Graduation Award recipients honored More than 70 CSU students received stoles from El Centro’s SOMOS Latinx/e Graduation on May 6. El Centro Director Dora Frias and Assistant Director Michelle Cadena delivered a bilingual address to the 2022 graduating Latinx/e students, their families, and staff at a largely attended event in the Lory Student Center ballroom. Read More 2 CSU students selected as Udall Scholars Nizhoni Hatch in the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences and Aidan Lyde in the College of Liberal Arts were among the 55 students from across the country to be named Udall Scholars this year. Read More Parking and Transportation Services hosting summer employee commute programs Parking and Transportation Services is hosting several events and programs throughout the summer to help employees explore their options for commuting to campus. Read More Courageous Strategic Transformation Five minutes with Faculty Council Chair Sue Doe "Our faculty are looking forward to being engaged in the implementation of a Courageous Strategic Transformation plan in which they can see themselves involved in the central concerns of the University." Read More Five minutes with co-chairs of President’s Sustainability Commission "Courageous Strategic Transformation is the first time we have used a University strategic plan to advance sustainability from such a holistic lens. CST sets ambitious goals that recognize the interconnectedness of environmental, economic, and social issues and makes a direct tie between a healthy planet and a thriving humanity." Read More Academic Master Plan: Shaping CSU’s academic enterprise for the future Colorado State University is looking toward the future to ensure its academic enterprise remains robust, relevant and meets the needs of students, the state, and the demands by industry for workforce expertise and skills. Read More Academic Master Plan distinguishes CSU as leader in higher ed Colorado State University’s forthcoming Academic Master Plan, or AMP, sets CSU apart as a leader in higher education at a time of rapid change. Read More THE CONVERSATION ON SOURCE Wastewater monitoring took off during the COVID-19 pandemic – and here’s how it could help head off future outbreaks Two CSU scientists describe how wastewater surveillance works and what it could do in a post-pandemic future. Read More Western river compacts were innovative in the 1920s but couldn’t foresee today’s water challenges The Western U.S. is in a water crisis, from California to Nebraska. An ongoing drought is predicted to last at least through July 2022. Recent research suggests that these conditions may be better labeled aridification – meaning that warming and drying are long-term trends. Read More What’s at stake for Trump, Twitter and politics if the tweeter-in-chief returns from banishment Any speculation about whether Donald Trump will return to Twitter after his permanent suspension in 2021 must begin with two caveats. First, we do not know for sure if, or when, the presumed new owner of the social media platform, Elon Musk, will lift the ban. Second, Trump has said he will not come back. Read More When parents turn children into weapons, everybody loses Domestic abuse can involve one parent using a child as a weapon against the other parent, which harms the child in immense ways. My research has identified how these dynamics play out and examines the damage. Read More SOURCE SPECIALS Colorado State University Graduation: Spring 2022 The Class of 2022 represent the very best of Colorado State University, showing courage in the face of adversity in the pursuit of their degrees. Meet just a few of the outstanding students who are graduating this spring. Read More Celebrate! Provost Awards for 2022 Since the annual Celebrate! Colorado State has grown beyond the capacity to acknowledge all award recipients at a single event, the Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President held a separate private luncheon this year to recognize its recipients for distinguished teaching and scholarship, faculty excellence, service, advising and leadership-related awards on behalf of the academic enterprise. Read More How does snow removal work at CSU? Snow removal crews arrive at campus at 3 a.m. to help clear snow, and it's a process that could last all day. Read More Remembering Joe Blake Joe Blake, chancellor emeritus of the CSU System and long-time advocate for higher education in Colorado, passed away Feb. 15 at the age of 86. Read More UNIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS & GIVING Spurring innovation with the second of three new buildings at CSU Spur in Denver The science of food is sprouting in Terra – the second of three buildings to open at the new CSU Spur campus in Denver – and the public can get a taste of new programming at the unique, urban setting starting in early June. Read More Tinbergs hope to ignite passion with $1 million gift furthering ‘business for a better world’ education Rich Tinberg, a '72 CSU alum, is igniting the passion of future leaders who know that business is about more than just the bottom line. Read More Mark your calendars: Lagoon Concert Series is back on June 15 This free, seven-week series will bring new bands every Wednesday evening starting June 15, with Northern Colorado band Funky Business and ending July 27 with Denver Westworld Music Award-winner The Wendy Woo Band. Read More Family roots bring donor back to C.P. Gillette Museum of Arthropod Diversity More than 130 years later, the great-grandson of CSU's entomology department founder C.P. Gillette continues the family connection. Read More Tag Cloud Alumni Athletics College of Agricultural Sciences College of Business College of Health and Human Sciences College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences covid-19 CSU Extension CSU Online CSU Spur CSU System Department of Atmospheric Science Department of Biology Department of Design and Merchandising Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Department of Health and Exercise Science Department of Human Development and Family Studies Division of Student Affairs Facilities Management Graduate School High-Impact Practices In memory International Programs James L. Voss Veterinary Teaching Hospital Morgan Library obituary Office of Engagement and Extension Office of the President Office of the Vice President for Diversity Office of the Vice President for Research Outreach parking and transportation services Research School of Global Environmental Sustainability student features Students Sustainability The Conversation Todos Santos University Center for the Arts Walter Scott Jr College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement © 2022 Colorado State University Colorado State University