Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Share (NEW) Spanish LSA Plus in Barcelona For 2022-2023 the Department will offer a Spanish LSA+ program in Barcelona, Spain, in Winter 2023. Applications for the LSA+ Barcelona in Winter 2023 are due February 1st, 2022. Barcelona PreviousNext Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona Winter 2023 This new LSA+ in Barcelona, Spain is offered each Winter, starting in 2023. The LSA+ program in Barcelona, Spain is led by a faculty member of the Spanish and Portuguese department. Students live with Spanish-speaking families for the entire term. The program offers SPAN 20 (Writing and Reading: A Critical and Cultural Approach), SPAN 22 (Modern and Contemporary Spanish Artistic and Cultural Production) and SPAN 32 (Introduction to Hispanic Studies III: 20th - 21st Centuries). Occasionally, the program may offer SPAN 30 or 31. These curricular offerings are complemented with weekly cultural field trips through the city led by Angel Lopez, our Art field guide, and three one-day excursions to places of interest, including the city of Girona, the Dali museum in Figueres, and a visit to the medieval monastery of Montserrat, an iconic site for Catalan identity. In addition to these, there is a four-day excursion to Madrid and Toledo just before the week-long break in the middle of the term. For more information, here is a video of the Dartmouth LSA in Barcelona: Video of QkEuzaZyIU0 Director: LSA+ Barcelona Winter 2023: Beatriz Pastor. PREREQUISITES To apply for the LSA+, students must complete SPAN 9 or 15; be exempt from SPAN 9 based on test scores; or receive the program director's permission. The City Barcelona is a beautiful city located on a narrow Mediterranean coastal plain of northeastern Spain, with a population of nearly 2 million. A true meeting point of Mediterranean cultures through the centuries, it has long been one of the most exciting and multicultural cities in Spain. Its incredible array of architectural styles and daring achievements from Roman walls to Gaudi, bears witness to that diversity. The old city lies close to the harbor. Its chief feature is Las Ramblas, a broad tree-lined avenue leading to the Plaza de Cataluña. Wide boulevards occupying the site of ancient walls surround the precinct. The old city contains remains of the Roman settlement, a medieval cathedral and many ancient palaces and houses. The newer neighborhoods have grown close to the coast, along a string of beautiful public beaches bordered by walkways and restaurants. Barcelona is also the site of several universities, among them the University of Barcelona, host of our LSA. The University of Barcelona was founded by Alfonso V, King of Aragón, in 1430, and is one of the largest and most important universities in Spain. There are a number of museums and galleries, including an important collection of works by Picasso, Miro and Tapies, and one of the finest museums of Romanesque art in the world. Perhaps the most famous building in Barcelona is Antonio Gaudi's unfinished Sagrada Familia church, begun in the late 19th century and characterized by its cluster of openwork spires. However, once visitors return home, the two images of this extraordinary city that remain most vividly may be its art nouveau Modernista architecture and the brightness of its beautiful Mediterranean light. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback