Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Department of Spanish and Portuguese myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Giving Mission Academics Select to follow link Course Descriptions Fall 2022 Degrees Select to follow link Minor B.A. M.A. Ph.D. Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Program Information Spanish Course Catalog Undergraduate Advising Admission Select to follow link Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Alumni Spotlight Select to follow link Success Stories Brazilian Studies Home Select to follow link Academics Select to follow link Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate Brazilian Studies Minor PORT Course Calendar Spring 2022 Portuguese Class Catalog Brazilian Programs Brazilian Studies Faculty and Lecturers Online Resources Journals Select to follow link La corónica Latin American Theater Review LATR Books People Select to follow link All Department Profiles A-Z Emeriti Faculty Faculty GRASP Student Organization Graduate Students, GTAs, GRAs Lecturers Staff Standing Committees Resources Select to follow link Faculty Resources Graduate Student Resources Select to follow link The Job Market in 2021 - Exploration and Planning Study Abroad Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Department of Spanish and Portuguese Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Department of Spanish and Portuguese Welcome! ¡Bienvenidos! Bem-vindos! The Department of Spanish and Portuguese offers a full range of undergraduate and graduate courses. While the major emphasis of the Department is literature, we also offer courses in Spanish language, linguistics, and culture, as well as Portuguese language, Brazilian literature and cultural studies. The Department has received the Departmental Award for Exceptional Teaching and Learning from the Center for Teaching Excellence, University of Kansas, and is highly ranked by the NRC. We recognize the integral relationship between teaching and research, and all members of the faculty are both active scholars and dedicated teachers. By the Numbers 100 undergraduates majoring in Spanish 300 undergraduates seeking a Spanish minor 40+ books and edited volumes published by current faculty By the Numbers 15 faculty members dedicated to scholarship and teaching 5 study abroad programs in Argentina, Brazil, and Spain 3 in-house publications, Latin American Theater Review, LATR Books, and La corónica Department Highlights Fiske Guide to Colleges calls Spanish & Portuguese one of KU's strongest programs Consistently ranked among the most distinguished graduate programs in Spanish by the National Research Council 2007 Departmental Award for Exceptional Teaching and Learning from KU's Center for Teaching Excellence 2012 Access to Language Education Focus Award from the Computer-Assisted Language Instruction Consortium (CALICO) for Acceso Comprehensive undergraduate program in Spanish language, literature and culture, as well as Portuguese language and Brazilian literature and cultural studies Comprehensive graduate program in Spanish language, literature and culture Department Spotlight Graduation Recognition Ceremony Congratulations Department of Spanish & Portuguese graduates! View the program GRASP Student Organization The Graduate Association for the Department of Spanish and Portuguese (GRASP) aims to foster the intellectual life and the development of our graduate fellows by providing them with a beneficial atmosphere that will eventually lead to professional success. Meet the organization Hablemos - Spanish Practice Table Hablemos has returned for the Spring 2022 semester! Hablemos is a GTA-led Spanish discussion table where Spanish students of all levels are welcomed to come and practice their language skills in an informal setting. See meeting times Placement Exam Undergraduate and Graduate Programs 2021 Annual Newsletter Study Abroad People Resources Portuguese and Brazilian Studies The University of Kansas has had a long tradition of interdisciplinary research and teaching in the field of Brazilian studies. Classes in Brazilian history, geography, literature, cinema, and music populated KU curriculum even before Brazilian studies became such an avid area of academic interest and inquiry as it is now in the United States. KU students have consistently learned the Portuguese language and about Brazilian culture for decades. We currently offer graduate and undergraduate level courses on Brazil and with significant Brazil content through different KU departments and the university’s Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies. Visit the Brazilian Studies homepage Follow us on social media FacebookTwitter Wescoe Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 spanport@ku.edu 785-864-3851 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.