Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Off Campus Programs in Spanish The Department of Spanish and Portuguese offers many off campus programs in Spain and Latin America each year. Spanish Language Study Abroad (LSA) in Barcelona and Buenos Aires The Department offers two LSA programs, one in Barcelona, Spain (Winter and Spring) and one in Buenos Aires, Argentina (Winter). Each program is led by a faculty member of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. Students live with Spanish-speaking families for the entire term. The program offers several courses while abroad; SPAN 3 (Advanced language instruction), SPAN 5 (Introduction to History and Culture), and SPAN 6 (Introduction to Hispanic Literatures). For more information please contact specific directors for each program or The Off Campus Program Committee. Directors for 2021-2022: LSA Barcelona Winter 2022: Roberto Rey Agudo LSA Barcelona Spring 2022: Beatriz Pastor [NEW] Spanish Language Study Abroad Plus (LSA+) in Buenos Aires The Department will offer 2021-2022 a Spanish LSAs program in Buenos Aires, Argentina (Winter '22). Please note: This is the only Spanish LSA+ offer of 2021-22, as the Santander LSA+ (Summer '21) and Cuzco LSA+ (Fall '21) ones have been temporarily cancelled. Students must complete SPAN 9 or 15; be exempt from SPAN 9 based on test scores; or receive the program director's permission in order to apply. For more information please contact specific directors for each program or The Off Campus Program Committee. Director: LSA+ Buenos Aires Winter 2022: Rodolfo Franconi. Director: LSA+ Buenos Aires Fall 2022: Martina Broner. Spanish Language Study Abroad Plus (LSA+) in Santander, Spain We began offering the LSA+ summer program in Santander in 2014. The program is led by a faculty member of the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Students live with Spanish-speaking families for the entire term. The program offers SPAN 20 (Writing and Reading: A Critical and Cultural Approach), SPAN 22 (Modern and Contemporary Spanish Artistic and Cultural Production) and SPAN 32 (Introduction to Hispanic Studies III: 20th - 21st Centuries). Occasionally, the program may offer SPAN 30 or 31. For more information please contact specific directors for each program or The Off Campus Program Committee. Director: LSA Santander Summer 2022: Muñoz-Muriana. Spanish Foreign Study Programs (FSP) in Madrid and Buenos Aires Students participating in the foreign study program live with families and take three courses: Contemporary Issues, Cultural Heritage, and Contemporary Literature. In Contemporary Issues, students read about, discuss and debate current issues and problems affecting the country of residence. The Cultural Heritage course focuses on historical development in Spain and Latin America through art, architecture, music, and popular culture. In the Contemporary Literature course, students read modern poetry, drama and fiction written by major Latin American and Spanish authors. The courses are taught by local faculty and by the accompanying Dartmouth faculty member. For Madrid, the program offers SPAN 24 (Spanish Cultural Heritage), SPAN 34 (Society, Culture and Politics in Spain), and SPAN 36 (Studies in Modern and Contemporary Spanish Literature). For Buenos Aires, the program offers SPAN 23 (Argentine Cultural Heritage), SPAN 33 (Argentine Civilization: Society, Culture, and Politics in Argentina), and SPAN 35 (Studies in Spanish-American Literature and Culture). For more information, please contact specific directors for each program or The Off Campus Program Committee. For 2021-2022 the Madrid FSP will be offered Winter 2022. Directors for 2021-2022: FSP Madrid Winter 2022: FSP Buenos Aires Spring 2022: Sebastián Díaz CASA Program in Havana, Cuba Students interested in studying Spanish abroad may apply to go on our Department-based LSAs, LSA+s and FSPs and/or look into the CASA (Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad) programs. Currently LALACS sponsors the CASA program in Havana, Cuba. REQUIREMENTS The main requirement to go on this program upon acceptance is fluency in Spanish. Non-native speakers must have completed Spanish 20 or the equivalent. Heritage speakers of Spanish who are unsure of their competence in the language should contact the Minor/Major advisor. All Spanish minors can request up to 1 (one) credit towards the minor for a course taken only in Casa de las Américas through CASA. All Spanish majors can request up to 2 (two) credits towards the major for two courses taken in Casa de las Américas in Havana through CASA. (Note the department will only honor courses taken in Casa de las Américas, not Universidad de la Habana). Please refer to this website to see the list of courses in Casa de las Américas that will guarantee credit in Spanish. Please check the Hispanic Studies tab to learn more about how to request your Minor or Major credit. Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback