Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Department of Spanish and Portuguese Home Contact People Events News Graduate Undergraduate Sigma Delta Pi Publications Welcome The Department of Spanish and Portuguese is known not only for its academic rigor but also for its plurality of critical and theoretical approaches to the study of Peninsular and Latin American literatures. Yale University boasts a world-renowned faculty, a library housing one of the finest collections in the United States with approximately ten million volumes including rare books and manuscripts, an unparalleled intellectual environment, a beautiful tree-lined campus that dates from the 18th century, and a wide array of extra-curricular activities including cultural, social, political and athletic events. New Haven is centrally located in southern New England, 1.5 hours from New York City and 2.5 hours from Boston. News "Poesia-Crítica-Tradução. Haroldo de Campos e a educação dos sentidos" Poesia-Crítica-Tradução. Haroldo de Campos e a educação dos sentidos Eduardo Jorge de Oliveira (U Zürich) and Kenneth David Jackson (eds.) Contains essays by our own Dept.... Winners of the First Annual Photo Contest! The winners of the First Annual Department of Spanish and Portuguese Photo Contest have been announced! Check out the winning photos here. CULTURE First Place: Jack Frésquez... Spanish & Portuguese Language Program Newsletter: Issue 3 The third issue of the Language Program’s newsletter is out now! Issue 3 More news... Announcements *First Annual Photo Contest - WINNERS HAVE BEEN ANNOUNCED! * Placement Exam for Fall 2022 *Pre-Registration & Preference Selection for Fall 2022 * SUMMER 2022 Spanish Study Abroad and Summer Session Information * SUMMER 2022 Portuguese Study Abroad and Summer Session Information What’s New? * Spring 2022 Office Directory & Office Hours *First Annual Photo Contest! *Spanish & Portuguese Language Program Newsletter * Introduction to the Portuguese Language Program Quick Links Yale University COVID-19 Hub (frequently updated) Student Accessibility Services COVID-19 Advanced Language Certificates Study Abroad & Summer Sessions Spanish Language Program FAQ Upcoming Events Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr Facebook