Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Share Spanish Foreign Study Programs (FSP) in Madrid and Buenos Aires We offer foreign study programs in the Spanish language in Madrid, Spain and in Buenos Aires, Argentina. For 2021-2022 the Madrid FSP has moved to Winter 2022. Other details of the program remain the same. The FSP in Buenos Aires is still offered Spring 2022. Madrid FSP students in a weekend excursion to Segovia. Exploring the Cathedral in Toledo (FSP Madrid, 2011). Madrid FSP students (Fall 2011) posing for the camera in a city tour in Barcelona. PreviousNext Video of S9bLVC4-TWM About the Program Students participating in the foreign study program live with families and take three courses: Contemporary Issues, Cultural Heritage, and Contemporary Literature. In Contemporary Issues, students read about, discuss and debate current issues and problems affecting the country of residence. The Cultural Heritage course focuses on historical development in Spain and Latin America through art, architecture, music, and popular culture. In the Contemporary Literature course, students read modern poetry, drama and fiction written by major Latin American and Spanish authors. The courses are taught by local faculty and by the accompanying Dartmouth faculty member. For Madrid, the program offers SPAN 24 (Spanish Cultural Heritage), SPAN 34 (Society, Culture and Politics in Spain), and SPAN 36 (Studies in Modern and Contemporary Spanish Literature). For Buenos Aires, the program offers SPAN 23 (Argentine Cultural Heritage), SPAN 33 (Argentine Civilization: Society, Culture, and Politics in Argentina), and SPAN 35 (Studies in Spanish-American Literature and Culture). For more information, please contact specific directors for each program. Directors for 2021/2022: FSP Madrid Winter 2022: José M. Del Pino FSP Buenos Aires Spring 2022 : Sebastian Díaz Directors for 2022/2023: FSP Madrid Fall 2022: Sara Martín FSP Buenos Aires Spring 2023: Noelia Cirnigliaro Prerequisites The prerequisites for the FSP are SPAN 20 (offered every term) and one of the following survey courses: SPAN 32 (fall term only), SPAN 31 (Winter term only), or SPAN 30 (Spring term only). The prerequisite for SPAN 20 is SPAN 9 or the equivalent (those students returning from a Spanish LSA may enroll directly into SPAN 20). The student may apply and be accepted to the program before taking either SPAN 20 or one of the 30-level survey courses, but must complete the prerequisite prior to the FSP into which he or she has been accepted. Spring 2022 and Spring 2023 Buenos Aires Classes are taught at the Universidad Torcuato Di Tella (UTDT) by local faculty as well as by Dartmouth faculty members. A private university, the Universidad Tocuato DiTella is a modern institution built on an American model. Its extensive facilities (library, study area, coffee shops, parks, and sports facilities) offer an excellent environment for exchange between Dartmouth students and their Argentine counterparts. The program includes two/three excursions (typically a day visit to a ranch/estancia; a weekend visit to Iguazú Falls National Park, and another one to Mendoza city and the wine county). A week-long break also offers ideal opportunity to travel within Argentina. Winter 2022 and Fall 2022 Madrid The Spanish foreign study program features instruction by the Dartmouth faculty member and several Spanish colleagues at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid. Madrid, capital of Spain since 1561, is a major cosmopolitan city whose wealth of architectural monuments and historical associations, museums and centers for theater, music, and the arts make it an exciting place for the study of Spanish culture past and present. The university, a young and dynamic center for advanced study established in 1968, has a modern campus with extensive facilities and a distinguished faculty, as well as many opportunities for exchange between Dartmouth students and their Spanish counterparts. In addition to a full academic schedule, the term abroad includes a week-long break for travel within the Iberian Peninsula and opportunities for group excursions to sites of artistic and natural beauty. The principal objective is an in-depth experience of the life and culture of contemporary Spain. This goal is approached through the substantive courses as well as through the homestay and social interaction with Spaniards. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback