Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Share (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander The Department will offer a new LSA in Santander, Spain every Summer starting in 2022. Dartmouth studens visiting historical sites in Santander LSA-2018 Dartmouth students visiting historical sites in Santander LSA-2018. LSA 2018 Santander. Dartmouth students about to experience a ride in a cable railway. PreviousNext [New] LSA SANTANDER Spanish Language Study Abroad (LSA) in Santander (Spain) Summer of 2022. Prerequisites: To qualify for an LSA program, a student must have achieved a minimum grade of B- in SPAN 2, or the equivalent preparation, and be accepted into the program. If you have taken SPAN 3 on campus or placed out of SPAN 3 on the online placement exam, if you score a 4 or 5 on either AP exam, or if you score 690 or better on the SAT II exam, you are overqualified and thus not eligible to apply for the LSA program. Please check out our LSA+ and FSP programs instead! The LSA program in Santander, Spain is led by a faculty member of the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Students live with Spanish-speaking families for the entire term. The program offers SPAN 3 (Advanced language instruction), SPAN 5 (Introduction to History and Culture), and SPAN 6 (Introduction to Hispanic Literatures). *Students who successfully complete an LSA program may skip Spanish 9 and go directly to Spanish 20. For more information please contact specific directors for each program. Director for summer 2022: Sara Muñoz-Muriana Santander, Spain This LSA will be based at the Universidad Internacional "Menéndez Pelayo" (UIMP). It will involve two days of extensive, on-site orientation, nine weeks of academic coursework, and a total of six to seven days of cultural excursions as a group. Santander hosts the oldest and most prestigious International Summer Program in Spain, created in August 1932. The UIMP has two sites: the "Campus de Las Llamas", where classes are taught, and the "Palacio de la Magdalena". The UIMP accommodates a wide range of cultural activities: theater, dance, films, concerts, lectures, meetings with writers, and academic excursions around Cantabria. Our students will be able to attend all events organized by the UIMP. Santander is located on the Atlantic coast in the region of Cantabria in Northern Spain. It combines its proximity to Bilbao and other historical cities in the regions of Asturias, Basque Country, and Castile, with the flavor and friendliness of a middle-size city (population of about 200,000 people). Its public transportation system is excellent, with easy access to and from university facilities to family housing. The city is pedestrian-friendly with numerous bike paths along the coastline; its renowned beaches, as well as its downtown and cultural offerings are within walking distance from the university. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback