Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs in Spanish Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Share Portuguese Language Study Abroad Plus (LSA+) in São Paulo, Brazil The Off Campus Program to São Paulo, Brazil has been temporarily cancelled. Bustling Avenida Paulista is lined with commercial buildings, banks, cinemas, museums and bookstores. Berrini business district in São Paulo A former railway station houses Sala São Paulo, the headquarters of the São Paulo Symphony Orchestra Rio de Janeiro is one of the two major excursions during the LSA+ Ouro Preto in the state of Minas Gerais was once the economic center of colonial Brazil. PreviousNext ABOUT THE PROGRAMS The LSA+ in São Paulo is led by a faculty member of the Spanish and Portuguese Department and emphasizes an intermediate acquisition of Portuguese language through the experience of living with Brazilian families for the entire term, as well as studying language, literature, and culture. The LSA+ offers PORT 9 (Writing and Reading: A Critical and Cultural Approach, Dist: LIT), PORT 10 (Studies in Brazilian Culture and Society, Dist: SOC; WCult: NW), and PORT 12 (Introduction to Brazilian Literature, Dist: LIT; WCult: NW). Our programs abroad are designed to help you develop your language skills, get in touch with locals and explore the social and cultural environment. Besides regular classes, the programs offer a wide range of excursions, lectures, guided visits, and workshops. The LSA+ involves two days of extensive, on-site orientation, nine weeks of academic coursework, and a total of eight days of cultural excursions as a group to sites of interest in Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. For more information, please contact specific directors for each program. LOCATION The LSA+ is based in São Paulo, capital of the homonymous state of São Paulo. Cosmopolitan and vibrant, São Paulo is the largest city in Brazil. It is a hub of business, culture, sports and the arts that appeals to a wide range of tastes and interests. Founded in 1554, São Paulo matured into a culturally diverse city, powerful economically and politically. It was one of the first cities to benefit from the coffee boom in the late 19th century. Soon after, it became the foremost industrial center in Latin America, attracting major waves of domestic migrants and foreign immigrants, particularly Italians, Germans, Japanese, Lebanese, Syrians, Greeks, Chinese and Koreans. Home to top institutions of higher education, São Paulo has a large and diverse population of university students and is Brazil's main center for academic research and professional development. Classes are taught at the CET center and at the Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo - PUC-SP. SÃO PAULO ACCORDING TO DARTMOUTH ALUMNI Video of FiydNXfW9XM Video of 6mCmrADjUWw PREREQUISITES Completion of the foreign language requirement in Portuguese INTENSIVE PORT 1-2 (offered every spring and summer) and INTENSIVE PORT 3 (offered every fall) with a grade of B or better, or the equivalent preparation] is required. Participants will be accepted on the basis of their application forms, letters of reference, and an interview. Actual participation in the programs is contingent upon the maintenance of satisfactory academic standing and compliance with orientation procedures. For more information on this new program, you may contact Prof. Rodolfo A. Franconi or Prof. Carlos A. C. Minchillo. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback