Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Placement Information Transfer Credits Alumni Update Share Application Process Application Procedure Students who wish to participate in the honors thesis program must follow these guidelines: Determine that you will have successfully completed five courses 30-level or above before the end of your junior year. Determine that you meet the minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.3 for all Dartmouth courses, and 3.5 in the major. Obtain a faculty advisor. (Check the department web page for information on faculty interests. Your thesis advisor may or may not be the same person as your Academic Advisor.) Fill out and print the application form and write a thesis proposal. Both need to be handed in to the department administrator by April 30. The application form and the proposal must be signed by your primary advisor. Ideally you will enroll in SPAN 90 or PORT 90 in the fall of your senior year, and SPAN 91 or PORT 91 in the winter. If you will be away on an FSP or LSA during spring term of your junior year, you are encouraged to complete your application by the end of winter term. Extensions will not be given on account of FSP or LSA participation. Download the application form here. Make sure to print it and submit three copies. The Thesis Proposal The honors thesis proposal should be between 3-5 pages in length, have a tentative title and chapter titles, chapter descriptions and provide a bibliography of at least fifteen entries. The proposal should answer the following questions: What is your research topic? What is the central question you will examine? Why is it important and interesting? What is your (preliminary) answer to the question or interpretation of the text? What are the competing answers/interpretations? What theoretical approaches and/or modes of analysis will guide your research? How will you structure and organize your thesis? (A thesis usually includes an introduction, three to five chapters of between 25-30 pages each, and a conclusion.) Will you need to travel as part of your research? How will you schedule this travel and how will you obtain funding for it (departmental funds, Dickey Center, Dean of Faculty Office, etc.)? Once your proposal is approved, you are encouraged to apply for departmental research funds by filling out the application form and including a detailed budget proposal. Enclose a preliminary bibliography (minimum 15 sources). The Spanish and Portuguese Department will also consider proposals for projects that are not primarily focused on literary analysis in Spanish or Portuguese, such as media projects, performance/theater, creative writing, and bilingual/English-language theses. Criteria for Proposal Approval Once the Spanish and Portuguese Department receives the proposals, the faculty will use the following criteria to approve the project: The proposal clearly articulates a compelling research/interpretive question. The student’s approach coherently addresses the nature of the project’s topic and central question. The proposal anticipates the structure of the thesis and how each section is relevant to the central question. The bibliography includes—in addition to the primary texts—carefully selected materials that cover historical, theoretical, critical, and, if appropriate, biographical areas of inquiry. Students and advisors will be notified promptly if the proposal has been approved. If the department requests changes and/or clarifications, the student must submit the revised proposal no later than two days before the department’s last meeting of the spring term (consult with Jillene Syphus for the schedule. If a student’s proposal is not approved, the department will recommend that the project become an independent study. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback