Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Honors Thesis Program Courses Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Share Spanish Language Placement Exam Who needs to take the exam? Students who have not taken SAT II, AP, British A level or IB exam scores must take the Department Placement exam if they wish to continue with their Spanish studies at Dartmouth. If you have never studied Spanish before but wish to start now, you don't need to take the placement test. Make sure to read through the information below before taking the test. Placement Exam Information Please read all of the following information carefully, before taking the online exam. The exam is offered online for incoming first year students from Aug 3 - Sep 7. The score you receive will indicate the course for which you should register. All students who place out of Spanish 3 on the placement exam will be required to take an oral exam on campus during fall orientation. There will be a make-up exam, date and location TBA. The placement exam is only for students who are enrolled at Dartmouth and who have not yet fulfilled the language requirement. If you are not enrolled at Dartmouth, your exam will not be evaluated. If you do not fill out the introductory survey your exam will not be evaluated. What Is the Exam Like? The online placement exam is a series of multiple-choice questions focusing on vocabulary, grammar and reading comprehension which takes anywhere from 20-40 minutes. Please note that the exam is not time-limited. If you need additional time to complete the test and the session closes, you will able to log back in again and continue your exam. The introductory survey must be completed in order for the exam to be evaluated. Placement Results The score you receive on the exam corresponds to our Department’s offerings; you should register for the course indicated on the online exam when you have finished. The Department does not recommend taking the exam more than once. Any student who takes the exam more than once will be notified by the Language Program Director to enroll in the course which corresponds to the first score registered. Students will be able to access their placement information on BannerStudent after September 10. Students should register for the indicated course during registration. Any student who exempts out of SPAN 3 on this exam will be required to complete an oral exam before classes start. If you have questions regarding placement information, please e-mail the Spanish Language Program Director. The Dartmouth College Academic Honor Principle The Spanish language placement exam is to be completed in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Dartmouth College Academic Honor Principle. Every student who applies to and is accepted by Dartmouth College, as a condition of acceptance, agrees to abide by the provisions of the Honor Principle, so long as he or she remains a student at Dartmouth College. The following important section is taken from the Dartmouth College ORC: Examinations. Any student giving or receiving assistance during an examination or quiz violates the Academic Honor Principle. The student is therefore expected to complete the Spanish placement exam individually, without help from others or from a reference source, and to complete it to the best of his/her ability. When taking the Placement Exam, you automatically accept and re-affirm your pledge to abide by the Academic Honor Principle of Dartmouth College. How to Take the Online Exam Follow this link to take the Spanish Department Placement Exam. Once you have completed the exam, click finished. You will see your results in the form of a number, which corresponds to a Spanish course: Below 350 Sem 1 = SPAN 1 351 to 475 Sem 2 = SPAN 2 476 to 600 Sem 3 = SPAN 3 Above 600 EXEMPT = Fulfilled language requirement/SPAN 9, pending oral proficiency assessment. If you need to see the results of the exam again log back into the exam, fill in the top part of the survey as you did when you took the exam, and then press the resume button. (This process also works if the exam is interrupted—as long as you have answered at least one question.) Students will be able to access their placement information on Banner Student after September 10. The "place into" course indicates the course in which should enroll, if you choose to continue with Spanish. The online exam is calculated into this course indication. Make-up Online Placement Exam for First-Year Students Day: TBD Time: TBD Place: TBD Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback