Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Affinity Housing Apply now! Share Admission Guidelines and Applications Are you interested in living in La Casa? Do you want to practice your Spanish or Portuguese? Are you interested in Iberian, Hispanic or Lusophone cultures? Returning from an LSA or FSP? Want to get ready to travel abroad? La Casa students enjoy movies, communal meals, discussions and conversation hours. PreviousNext General Information Apply now with the Office of Residential life! Note that applications should be submitted through Banner Student, Housing StarPortal. Make sure you clearly indicate that La Casa is your first choice, and answer the corresponding questions. For summer, please send us an email indicating your interest. Students interested in living in La Casa must fill out the online application form and submit it by the appropriate deadline. Each term the deadline for the La Casa application will be one week (7 days) prior to the deadline for affinity house rosters to be turned in at the Housing Office. Check the important deadlines from the Office of Residential Life. Students interested in living in La Casa must also read carefully over La Casa's Responsibilities and Application Prompts. Approval of an application to live in La Casa means admission to the house, without specification of room or type of room. Costs of rooms are comparable to those of similar ones in other dormitories, and they are determined by the Office of Residential Life. La Casa can house a total of 10 students and one faculty advisor-in-residence. Responsibilities Speak Spanish or Portuguese in the house. Attend weekly dinners. Co-plan two dinners per term. Attend 3-4 official events each term. Co-plan one event each term. Be enthusiastic, cooperative, and respectful! Application Criteria In selecting students to live at La Casa from the pool of applicants, the Advisory Council will consider the following: Fluency in Spanish (minimum Spanish 3 or an equal level of fluency). An oral interview may be required during the application process. Academic interest in Spanish (it is not necessary that you be a major or a minor in Spanish to be considered, but majors/minors receive preference in the application process). Class (ORL policy does not permit first year students to live in La Casa, if the qualifications of two candidates are judged to be equal, seniors are given preference). Date of application (if the qualifications of two candidates are judged to be equal, preference will be given to the earlier applicant). Standing in La Casa (residents in good standing are given preference in the selection process). Ability to participate in our weekly community dinners and La Casa events. If you still have questions, please consult our FAQ. Application Prompts Briefly explain why you are interested in living in La Casa. Describe your background in Spanish and/or Portuguese language(s), and your experience (if any) with Hispanic and/or Luso-Brazilian cultures. How do you think you would contribute to the academic, cultural, and social learning environment in La Casa, based on your experience and interests. Submit your answers through Banner Student, Housing StarPortal or send an email to livinglearning@dartmouth.edu. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback