Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Honors Thesis Program Courses Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Apply to the Honors Program Share Placement Information and Exams Questions about placement not answered by the material below should be addressed to Language Program Director Roberto Rey Agudo. Please check also this Frequently Asked Questions about studying Portuguese and Spanish at Dartmouth. Portuguese Language Placement Procedures Students may place into Portuguese classes by taking the Portuguese Placement Exam on Canvas. Results will be updated on Banner before Advising Day (September 11). All upper-class students who need to take a placement exam can do so by scheduling an individual time for a placement exam with Rodolfo Franconi, or Carlos Cortez Minchillo. For more general information about language classes, the online exam, and further opportunities for language study, see the department website. Spanish Class Enrollment Advice If you studied Spanish prior to matriculation and you would like to continue your studies at Dartmouth, please use these guidelines to figure out which class you should enroll in. If you have taken the SAT II test: 0 – 410: SPAN 1 420 – 590: SPAN 2 600 – 680: SPAN 3 690 or better: SPAN 9. (Language requirement fulfilled) If you have taken AP Exams: AP Language 4 or 5: SPAN 9. (Language requirement fulfilled) AP Literature 4: SPAN 9. (Language requirement fulfilled) AP Literature 5: SPAN 20. (Language requirement fulfilled) If you have taken the British A level exams: “A” on the A level exam: SPAN 20. (Language requirement fulfilled) “B” on the A level exam: SPAN 9. (Language requirement fulfilled) If you have taken the IB exam: 6 or 7 on the Higher-level IB exam: SPAN 20. (Language requirement fulfilled) Please note that if you have taken SAT II, AP, British A level or IB exams you do NOT need to take the online placement exam. Students who do not have SAT II, AP, British A level or IB exam scores must take the Spanish Language Placement Test if they wish to continue with their Spanish studies at Dartmouth. The exam is offered online for incoming first year students from August 3 – September 7. The score you receive will indicate the course for which you should register. All students who place out of SPAN 3 on the placement exam will be required to take an oral exam on campus during fall orientation. For more general information about language classes, the online exam, and further opportunities for language study, see the department website. Students who have lived or studied abroad for more than 6 months should contact the Language Program Director for further placement information. Important placement information for possible LSA participants: if you have taken SPAN 3 on campus or place out of SPAN 3 on the online placement exam, if you score a 4 or 5 on either AP exam, or if you score 690 or better on the SAT II exam, you are overqualified and thus not eligible to apply for the LSA program - but please check out our LSA+ and FSP programs! Contact Information Spanish Placement and general queries about both language programs: Roberto Rey Agudo. Portuguese Placement and questions about the Portuguese program: Carlos Cortez Minchillo and Rodolfo Franconi. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback