Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Share AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates The Department encourages students to participate in the Apprentice Teacher Workshops in order to learn the drill method and try out to be a Drill Instructor. Session Information Students who have never drilled before must attend the Orientation and all practice sessions; students who HAVE drilled before must attend the first workshop as listed below in order to establish their schedule. We will figure out the case-by-case attendance schedule the first day of the workshops. Please sign up in the Google doc before Tuesday at 2:00 pm. Shortly after, we will contact the veterans to let them know what days they have to attend the workshops. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kxXwMChjNKzveK9Q2KnS5TmkGK7CUsiGPe4se-tNW7A/edit?usp=sharing Who is elegible? Students in courses numbered 9 or above (e.g. Spanish 9, Portuguese 20) Returning LSA/LSA+/FSP students Majors and minors in Hispanic, Romance and Lusophone Studies Dartmouth students with demonstrable proficiency in Spanish and/or Portuguese (e.g. students who placed out of the language requirement, native and heritage speakers) When is the training taking place? Monday January 10th 6:30pm: Orientation. Meet in Silsby 28. Mandatory for ALL NEW candidates 6:30pm Orientation with Rassias Center (students who have only drilled online are strongly encouraged to attend orientation to learn and practice how to use drill techniques for in-person settings) at Rocky 3. 7:30-9:00pm: Drill training Mandatory for ALL NEW candidates Tuesday January 11th 6:00-8:00pm: Drill training. Blunt. Wednesday January 12th 6:00-8:00pm: Drill training. Blunt. Thursday January 13th 3:30pm - 4:30pm: Selection. Blunt. Returning and Veteran Apprentice Teachers are excused from Orientation. They are however, required to come to practice sessions to assist in the training of new candidates. What's involved in working as a drill instructor? Depending on your assignment, you will teach 3 or 4 hours per week and assist in correcting homework. Payment starts at $11.50 per hour. (Preparation time is also paid at the rate of one hour per period taught, i.e. if you teach 3 hours a week, you will be paid for 3 hours of teaching and 3 hours of prep time). Detailed scripts for drills. Close collaboration with the language faculty. Please contact Professor Roberto Rey Agudo with any questions. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback