Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs in Spanish Programs in Portuguese Share Foreign Study The Department of Spanish and Portuguese offers three levels of off-campus programs in Spanish (our program in Portuguese to Brazil has been temporarily cancelled). Applications are usually due February 1st in the Off Campus Programs Office. Spanish and Portuguese students get to see the world through other cultures' eyes. PreviousNext Video of S9bLVC4-TWM What is the LSA? Language Study Abroad (LSA) programs in Spanish allow students to complete the language requirement in Barcelona or Santander, Spain. All LSA programs are for students who place into Spanish 3 or who have taken Spanish 2 on campus. For 2021-2022 the LSA will be offered in Barcelona, Spain both in Winter and Spring 2022, and Buenos Aires, Argentina in Spring 2022. For 2022-2023 the ONLY LSA offered will be in Santander, Spain, Summer 2022. What is the LSA+? At the intermediate level the Department offers the option of an LSA+ program. Up to two courses may count towards the major. Prerequisites are Spanish 9. For 2021-2022 there will be one LSA+ program offered at a new site: Buenos Aires, Argentina, in Winter term 2022. For 2022-23 there will be two LSA+ programs: Fall term in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Winter term in Barcelona, Spain. What is the FSP? Foreign Study Programs (FSPs) are advanced programs for those who want to delve into Hispanic literatures and cultures in Madrid, Spain and Buenos Aires, Argentina. Up to two of the FSP courses may count towards the major. Prerequisite is one course from the Span 30, 31 and 32 sequence. For 2021-2022 the FSP in Madrid will be offered Winter 2022. The FSP in Buenos Aires will be offered Spring 2022. For 2022-2023 the FSP in Madrid will be offered Fall 2022. The FSP in Buenos Aires will be offered Spring 2023. Special Pre-LSA Drill Section The Department offers a special drill session which is required for those students who have been accepted to one of the Spanish LSA programs and have completed Spanish 2, or who are at the Spanish 2 level, and have not been enrolled in a Spanish language course in more than six months. Please contact Roberto Rey Agudo, our Language Program Director, for more information. Applications and Deadlines Application deadlines are normally February 1st. For more information on specific programs/additional deadlines please consult the Off Campus Programs Office. CASA Program in Havana, Cuba Students interested in studying Spanish abroad may apply to go on our Department-based LSAs, LSA+s and FSPs and/or look into the CASA (Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad) programs. Currently LALACS sponsors the CASA program in Havana, Cuba. The Department of Spanish and Portuguese will give credit for up to one course to Spanish Minors, and up to two course for Spanish Majors. See the Off Campus Programs page for more details. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback