Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Honors Thesis Program Courses Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Share Portuguese Language Placement Exam 1. General Information - Portuguese at Dartmouth A series of two, one-term elementary courses in Portuguese (PORT 11 and PORT 3 ) gives students the foundations they need in the language and allows them to satisfy Dartmouth's language requirement. They are then able to move on to the intermediate courses in Portuguese (PORT 8 or PORT 9 and PORT 20). You should take this placement exam ONLY if you have previous knowledge of Portuguese. If you have never taken Portuguese before, you can enroll in our intensive PORT 11. Please contact professor Rodolfo Franconi or professor Carlos Minchillo to discuss your choices (Rodolfo.A.Franconi@Dartmouth.edu; Carlos.Minchillo@Dartmouth.edu). Students who have submitted scores to Dartmouth for the SAT II or AP exams will be placed according to those scores and aren't required to take the placement exam. 2. Scores After completing the placement exam, you will be able to access your scores on Canvas for all the sections of the exam. Click "Grades" to check your score. You will need to look at the bottom of the "Grades" page to see the percentage for each exam. A score between 50% and 70 % in Test A, indicates a placement in Portuguese 3. A score of 70% and higher in Test A, indicates that you are a candidate for language exemption and a placement in Portuguese 8 or Portuguese 9. A score between 50% and 70 % in Test B, indicates that you are a candidate for language exemption and will place you in Portuguese 8 or Portuguese 9. A score of 70% and higher in Test B, indicates a placement in Portuguese 20 or higher. After taking Test A or/and Test B you should contact professor Franconi or professor Minchillo to schedule an interview. Note: You won't get a final score until you do the oral interview. You don't have to take Test B. Only take Test B if you have advanced knowledge of Portuguese. If you decide to take Test B you should also take Test A. 3. Contact Us For questions regarding the exams that are not answered above, email to Rodolfo.A.Franconi@Dartmouth.edu or Carlos.Minchillo@Dartmouth.edu For questions regarding Canvas, email us here. 4. Take the Exam If you are taking this placement exam, it means you have some knowledge of Portuguese (either you have studied it in high school, you speak it in the family, or you have lived abroad). If you do not have any previous knowledge of Portuguese, you do not need to take this exam. The placement exam consists of: Test A. 13 questions (multiple-choice, fill in the blanks, and open questions) that test the use of grammar in context and one 250 e 300 words composition. There is a 90-minute limit to complete the test. After taking the test, you will do an oral interview. Test B. 14 reading and listening comprehension questions. There is a 120-minute limit to complete the test. After taking the test, you will do an oral interview. The Dartmouth College Academic Honor Principle The Portuguese language placement exam is to be completed in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Dartmouth College Academic Honor PrincipleLinks to an external site. Every student who applies to and is accepted by Dartmouth College, as a condition of acceptance, agrees to abide by the provisions of the Honor Principle, so long as he or she remains a student at Dartmouth College. The following important section is taken from the Dartmouth College ORC: Examinations. Any student giving or receiving assistance during an examination or quiz violates the Academic Honor Principle. The student is therefore expected to complete the Portuguese placement exam individually, without help from others or from a reference source, and to complete it to the best of his/her ability. When taking the Placement Exam, you automatically accept and re-affirm your pledge to abide by the Academic Honor Principle of Dartmouth College. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback