Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Spanish and Portuguese Department of Spanish and Portuguese Contact Us Spanish.and.Portuguese@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Back to Top Nav Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates Back to Top Nav La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito Share Frequently Asked Questions General Information Can I receive extra credit in my classes for attending events at La Casa? I'm not a resident in La Casa. Can I still attend the events? My club wants to do something with La Casa. What should I do? About Applying Is La Casa open during the summer? What are the rooms like? How many rooms are there in La Casa? Can I have a single? Spanish/Portuguese is not my major. Can I still live in La Casa? I'm a freshman. Can I live in La Casa? I'm not a native speaker. Is that okay? I'm a native speaker. Can I still live at La Casa? What’s the difference between La Casa and other Hispanic groups on campus such as LALACS? It's my off-term. Can I still live at La Casa? I'm not an undergrad. Can I live in La Casa? Can I apply after the deadline? For Residents Can I leave my things at La Casa during the interim? Can I be in La Casa during the interim? I can't go to an event. What do I do? Can I have a party at La Casa? Can I receive extra credit in my classes for attending events at La Casa? It depends on your professor. Please speak directly with him or her. Top I'm not a resident in La Casa. Can I still attend the events? The majority of our events are open to campus, so please, join us! If you have any doubts, please send us and email or contact the Faculty Advisor in turn. What are the rooms like? There are 4 doubles and 2 singles. The floor plans can be found here. Top How many rooms are there in La Casa? There are 7 rooms with space for 10 students: 2 singles (1 for the UGA), 4 doubles and the faculty apartment. There are also three bathrooms, the library, the living room, the dining room, the kitchen, the porch and the basement. Top Can I have a single? There are two singles. One is for the UGA. The Resident Faculty Advisor decides the other based on gender distribution and seniority in La Casa. When you are accepted into La Casa, you also need to accept that possibility of sharing a room, which can be a very useful learning and social experience. Top Spanish/Portuguese is not my major. Can I still live in La Casa? Yes! Many people live in La Casa even though their major is not Spanish/Portuguese. Many people use their time at La Casa to improve their Spanish when they don't have time in their schedule to take a class. However, students whose major is Spanish/Portuguese do receive preference in the selection process. Top I'm a freshman. Can I live in La Casa? Sorry, but no. Only Upperclassmen are allowed to live in La Casa. But please visit us and apply next year! Top I'm not a native speaker. Is that okay? Yes, it's fine; the majority of our residents aren't native speakers. Top I’m a native speaker. Can I still live at La Casa? Yes. Every term we usually have about one or two residents who are native speakers. If you want the opportunity to speak Spanish on a regular basis, then consider living at La Casa! Top What’s the difference between La Casa and other Hispanic groups on campus such as LALACS? Like other Hispanic groups on campus, La Casa is interested in helping students immerse themselves in Hispanic culture. However, its main focus is to help students (especially non-native Speakers) practice and hone their Spanish speaking skills. Top It's my off-term. Can I still live at La Casa? It's possible, but in the selection process, students who are enrolled in classes receive priority. The process for the student, however, is the same. Top I'm not an undergrad. Can I live in La Casa? Sorry, but no. ORL does not permit non-undergraduates to live in La Casa. But we would love for you to visit us! Top Can I apply after the deadline? Yes, but your application receives less priority than those submitted on time and it is possible that La Casa is already full. Top Can I leave my things at La Casa during the interim? The only people authorized by ORL to leave their things in storage at La Casa are those who currently live there and who will continue to do so the following term. Storage is not open during the summer. Top Can I be in La Casa during the interim? Staying at La Casa during interim requires special permission from Residential Operations. Contact them by e-mail or telephone (603-646-1203). Top I can't go to an event. What do I do? Send an e-mail to the UGA and the Live-In Advisor before the absence and tell them the reason for which you will miss an event. Each resident has two "freebies" when they can miss an event for a reasonable motive. If you miss more than two events of if you miss an event without prior notice, speak with the Live-In Advisor to find a reasonable solution to make up the absence (which can include cleaning, helping with another event, or another activity agreed upon by the Advisor and the resident). Top Can I have a party at La Casa? La Casa is your home. You can do whatever you want (as long as it is legal and it does not damage the property of others nor of the College). You can invite your friends over for your own social reasons whenever you like, as long as it does not conflict with a La Casa event. Please be courteous, however, and let the other residents (including the UGA and Live-In Advisor) know what's going on. Residents' guests' actions are the responsibility of the resident who invited him or her (in other words, if they break something, it is the resident's responsibility both legally and in relation to the College). Top Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Spanish and Portuguese Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Advisors Student Awards and Prizes Programs Hispanic Studies Romance Studies Lusophone Studies Hispanic and Lusophone Studies Honors Thesis Program Thesis Timeline Application Process Thesis Research Funding Past Theses Courses Spanish Portuguese First-Year Seminars (FYS) Placement Information Spanish Portuguese Transfer Credits Alumni Update Foreign Study Overview Programs in Spanish Spanish LSA in Barcelona and Buenos Aires (NEW) Spanish LSA in Santander (NEW) Spanish LSA+ in Barcelona [NEW] Spanish LSA+ in Buenos Aires Spanish FSP in Madrid and Buenos Aires Programs in Portuguese Portuguese LSA+ in São Paulo, Brazil Student Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Information Digital Resources Student Funding AT/Drill Instructor Tryout Dates La Casa Overview Apply Living Guidelines Who We Are Frequently Asked Questions Day of the Dead El Cafecito News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback