Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Libraries Kenneth Spencer Research Library myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Collections Select to follow link Find Collections Kansas Collection Select to follow link African American Experience Douglas County Records Photographs, Papers, and Records of Life in Kansas and the Great Plains Collection Development Policy Special Collections Select to follow link Ancient and Medieval Manuscripts Architecture Economics 18th Century Collections History of American Education History of Science Irish Collections Latin America, Portugal, and Spain 19th and 20th Century Literary Collections Renaissance and Early Modern Imprints Science Fiction Collections Voyages, Travels, Geography, Atlases, and Maps Collection Development Policy University Archives Select to follow link Athletics Campus Buildings Chancellors Faculty Photographs Records Management Student Life Collection Development Policy Wilcox Collection Select to follow link Collection Development Policy What We Collect Potentially Problematic Description Using the Library Select to follow link Visit Use Collections Cite Materials Select to follow link American Psychological Association (APA) Chicago Manual of Style (Chicago) Modern Language Association (MLA) Request Reproductions Bring Classes Apply for a Travel Award Exhibits, Tours, and Events Select to follow link North Gallery Exhibit Space Online Exhibitions Tours Event Spaces About Select to follow link Welcome History Meet Our Staff Glossary of Library and Archives Terms Blog Giving Select to follow link Making a Gift Donating Materials History Day Select to follow link Introduction Research Tips Selected Topics Helpful Resources myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Libraries Kenneth Spencer Research Library Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Kenneth Spencer Research Library We welcome everyone to discover stories from KU, Kansas, and around the world within Spencer's remarkable and diverse collections. Here you can encounter rare and unique items ranging from 4,000-year-old cuneiform tablets to more than one million historical photographs of KU. Video Introduction Get Started Service Updates We are ready to welcome you safely for the 2021-2022 academic year. Learn What to Expect Aeon Login You need a current user account in our online system, Aeon, to access collections on-site at Spencer. Create/Access an Account Spencer Collections You can find information about, and digitized surrogates of, materials in a variety of places. Start Your Research Current Hours Summer 2022 May 15-August 21 Hours may change based on evolving COVID-19 circumstances and campus, local, state, and federal guidelines. Please check this page for updates before visiting Spencer. Building Hours Monday-Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday-Sunday: Closed Reading Room Hours Monday-Friday: 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Saturday-Sunday: Closed Requests for collection materials are accepted until 30 minutes before the Reading Room closes. Exceptions Thu., May 19: Reading Room open, 10 a.m. - 12 p.m. Mon., May 30: Closed, Memorial Day Holiday Mon., Jun. 20: Closed, Juneteenth Holiday Mon., Jul. 4: Closed, Independence Day Holiday New at Spencer Research Library Statement on Potentially Problematic Description Learn how Spencer staff are addressing harmful language in our finding aids, catalog records, and digital descriptions. Read the Statement Common Book Guide Discover archival collections and print sources at Spencer that relate to the 2021-2022 KU Common Book, "Braiding Sweetgrass." Explore Resources Citation Guide Get help citing Spencer materials, especially archival collections. You'll find guidelines and examples for APA, MLA, and Chicago. Consult the Guide Kenneth Spencer Research Library 1450 Poplar Lane Lawrence, Kansas 66045 ksrlref@ku.edu 785-864-4334 facebook instagram twitter youtube KU Libraries Service Updates, 2021-2022 Aeon Login Libraries Catalog Finding Aids Digital Collections Parking Information Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.