Skip to main content Tulane Home Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SPHTM only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Values Leadership & Staff Dean's Advisory Council Accreditation Communications Five Year Strategic Plan History of Tulane SPHTM Admissions Programs & Degrees Quick Degree Comparison Master's Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Public Health Studies Joint Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Departments Biostatistics and Data Science Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Health Policy and Management International Health and Sustainable Development Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences Tropical Medicine Students New Student Orientation: Summer 2022 Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Awards Recruitment All Faculty & Staff Resources Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at SPHTM Teaching Assistant Info Covid-19 Resources Submit your updates Research Office of Research Development and Administration Research Highlights Sponsored Projects Administration On the Front Lines of COVID-19 SPHTM Research Centers Training Centers News About Admissions Programs & Degrees Departments Students Faculty Research News Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Close Congratulations to the class of 2022! If you missed the events or just want to replay for warm memories, visit the 2022 graduation information page. Home / Tanika N. Kelly, PhD, MPH tracking code Tanika N. Kelly, PhD, MPH Professor and Vice Chair Director, Center for Public Health Genomics tkelly@tulane.edu Suite 2000 504-988-6972 Education ﻿﻿PhD, Genetic Epidemiology, Tulane University MPH, Epidemiology, Tulane University BS, General Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Biography A native of Chicago, Illinois, Dr. Tanika Kelly received a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign before going on to receive Master of Public Health and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Epidemiology at Tulane University. Upon completing her graduate work in 2009, Dr. Kelly joined the Tulane faculty. Since then, Dr. Kelly has developed a research program focused on discerning multi-omics mechanisms underlying an array of cardiometabolic phenotypes. The overarching goal of her program is to inform and develop precision health strategies that may ultimately curb cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality globally. Highlights of Dr. Kelly’s career thus far include leadership of a whole-exome sequencing study of diabetic nephropathy among a multi-ancestry sample of >11,000 participants of the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort and Atherosclerosis Risks in Communities studies, integrative multi-omics studies to identify gut microbial communities and serum metabolites that influence traditional and subclinical measures of cardiovascular health among up to 1,260 Bogalusa Heart Study participants, and a whole-genome sequencing study of blood pressure in >50,000 participants of the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine Program. As a result of these and previous research efforts, Dr. Kelly has published >100 manuscripts in peer-reviewed biomedical journals, with first or co-first author works in high-impact journals such as Nature Genetics, Annals of Internal Medicine, Circulation, and Circulation Research. Publications Please view Dr. Kelly's publications at her NCBI profile page. Faculty Info CV Tanika_Kelly_CV2020.pdf (311.14 KB) Research Areas Genomic epidemiology Multi-omics and systems biology research Epidemiology of cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease Courses EPID 6290 Genetic Epidemiology EPID 7310 Meta-Analysis Honors & Awards 2020: American Heart Association Roger R. Williams Award for Genetic Epidemiology and the Prevention and Treatment of Atherosclerosis 2014: International Society of Hypertension Investigator Grant 2009: Dorothy R. LeBlanc Scholarship Award 2008–2009: ETA Chapter, Delta Omega Award for Most Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation 2005-2007: Dean's Research Council Scholarship 2005: Delta Omega Society, Eta Chapter Link to Tulane Home Page EPID Footer Department of Epidemiology 1440 Canal Street, Suite 2000 New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-6809 epi@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Jobs at Tulane Contact Us Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University