Skip to main content Tulane Home Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SPHTM only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Values Leadership & Staff Dean's Advisory Council Accreditation Communications Five Year Strategic Plan History of Tulane SPHTM Admissions Programs & Degrees Quick Degree Comparison Master's Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Public Health Studies Joint Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Departments Biostatistics and Data Science Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Health Policy and Management International Health and Sustainable Development Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences Tropical Medicine Students New Student Orientation: Summer 2022 Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Awards Recruitment All Faculty & Staff Resources Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at SPHTM Teaching Assistant Info Covid-19 Resources Submit your updates Research Office of Research Development and Administration Research Highlights Sponsored Projects Administration On the Front Lines of COVID-19 SPHTM Research Centers Training Centers News About Admissions Programs & Degrees Departments Students Faculty Research News Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Close Congratulations to the class of 2022! If you missed the events or just want to replay for warm memories, visit the 2022 graduation information page. Home / Lydia Bazzano, MD, PhD tracking code Lydia Bazzano, MD, PhD Lynda B. and H. Leighton Steward Professor in Nutrition Research Director, Tulane Center for Lifespan Epidemiology Research lbazzano@tulane.edu Suite 2001, #1234 504-988-7323 Education MD, Tulane University PhD, Epidemiology, Tulane University MPH, Tulane University BS, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane University Biography As a clinician-investigator trained in epidemiology and internal medicine, Dr. Lydia Bazzano has expertise in a broad range of clinical research with a focus on cardiovascular disease and its risk factors, with an emphasis on the role of cardio-metabolic factors, including diet, obesity, lipids and glucose, in the development of vascular disease and its consequences over the life course. She has served as PI of a highly successful NIH-funded randomized controlled of a behavioral intervention to improve weight and cardio-metabolic risk factors through dietary change (subproject of P20RR017659). Since 2010, Dr. Bazzano has been working with the Bogalusa Heart Study and currently serves as chair of the Bogalusa Heart Study Program Steering Committee, Medical Director of the Bogalusa Heart Study, and Principal Investigator of NIH/NIA R01AG041200 investigating the role of vascular aging in cognitive and physical performance in the Bogalusa Heart Study cohort. She has over 100 peer-reviewed publications and a strong track record of collaboration and funding in exploring cardio-metabolic diseases among men and women. Publications Please view Dr. Bazzano's publications at her NCBI profile page. Faculty Info Research Areas Nutrition Cardiovascular Disease and its risk factors Aging Courses EPID 6220 Cardiovascular Epidemiology EPID 6340 Clinical and Translational Research Methods EPID 6420 Clinical Epidemiology Honors & Awards Fellow of the American College of Medicine Fellow of the American College of Nutrition Jeremiah and Rose Stamler Research Award Finalist Janet M. Glasgow Memorial Achievement Citation Alpha Omega Alpha Medical Honor Society Link to Tulane Home Page EPID Footer Department of Epidemiology 1440 Canal Street, Suite 2000 New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-6809 epi@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Jobs at Tulane Contact Us Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University