Skip to main content Tulane Home Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SPHTM only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Values Leadership & Staff Dean's Advisory Council Accreditation Communications Five Year Strategic Plan History of Tulane SPHTM Admissions Programs & Degrees Quick Degree Comparison Master's Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Public Health Studies Joint Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Departments Biostatistics and Data Science Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Health Policy and Management International Health and Sustainable Development Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences Tropical Medicine Students New Student Orientation: Summer 2022 Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Awards Recruitment All Faculty & Staff Resources Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at SPHTM Teaching Assistant Info Covid-19 Resources Submit your updates Research Office of Research Development and Administration Research Highlights Sponsored Projects Administration On the Front Lines of COVID-19 SPHTM Research Centers Training Centers News About Admissions Programs & Degrees Departments Students Faculty Research News Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Close Congratulations to the class of 2022! If you missed the events or just want to replay for warm memories, visit the 2022 graduation information page. Home / Maeve Wallace, PhD tracking code Maeve Wallace, PhD Assistant Professor mwallace@tulane.edu 143 S. Liberty St. (504) 988-7305 Education PhD, Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology, Tulane University MPH, Epidemiology, Tulane University BS, Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Arizona Biography Maeve Wallace is a reproductive and perinatal epidemiologist. Her research interests focus on the social, structural, and policy determinants of maternal and child health and health inequities including structural racism, violence, health policy and human rights. Her current work seeks to understand the reasons underlying persistent racial inequities in maternal and infant mortality in New Orleans, across the state of Louisiana, and nationwide. She is Associate Director of the Mary Amelia Center for Women's Health Equity Research (MAC). Prior to joining MAC, she completed a Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Epidemiology Branch of the Division of Intramural Population Health Research at the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in Washington, DC. She is actively involved in collaboration with local and national community-based organizations and governmental agencies on efforts to improve maternal and child health and advance health equity. Publications Please view Dr. Wallace's publications at her NCBI profile page. Faculty Info Research Areas Maternal and Child Health Health Disparities Social Determinants of Health Courses GCHB 7250 Evidence-Based Methods in Social and Behavioral Sciences Honors & Awards 2018: National Violent Death Reporting System New Investigator Award, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Public Health Association 2017: Charles E. Gibbs Leadership Prize, best manuscript published in Women's Health Issues 2015: Fellow's Award for Research Excellence, National Insitutes of Health 2014: Fellow's Award for Research Excellence, National Insitutes of Health 2013: Outstanding Dissertation Award, Delta Omega Honorary Society in Public Health 2013: Award for Research in Women's Health and Sex Differences in Cardiovascular and Related Diseases, Building Interdisciplinary Research Chareers in Women's Health (BIRCWH) program, Tulane University Link to Tulane Home Page SBPS Department Footer Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences 1440 Canal Street, Suite 2210 New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-5391 sbps@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Jobs at Tulane Contact Us Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University