Skip to main content Tulane Home Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SPHTM only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Values Leadership & Staff Dean's Advisory Council Accreditation Communications Five Year Strategic Plan History of Tulane SPHTM Admissions Programs & Degrees Quick Degree Comparison Master's Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Public Health Studies Joint Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Departments Biostatistics and Data Science Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Health Policy and Management International Health and Sustainable Development Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences Tropical Medicine Students New Student Orientation: Summer 2022 Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Awards Recruitment All Faculty & Staff Resources Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at SPHTM Teaching Assistant Info Covid-19 Resources Submit your updates Research Office of Research Development and Administration Research Highlights Sponsored Projects Administration On the Front Lines of COVID-19 SPHTM Research Centers Training Centers News Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Close Congratulations to the class of 2022! If you missed the events or just want to replay for warm memories, visit the 2022 graduation information page. Home / Research / SPHTM Research Centers / Tulane Health Office for Latin America (HOLA) tracking code Tulane Health Office for Latin America (HOLA) Vision The vision of the Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine Health Office for Latin America (HOLA), based in Lima, Peru, is to foster and promote collaborative public health research in Latin America between Tulane faculty and their Latin American research counterparts. Mission The mission is improve global health through research and education of the next generation of public health researchers and professionals. Through mentorship and opportunities to participate in research projects in Latin America, this office provides faculty and students with unique opportunities to collaborate with Latin American colleagues and on projects based in Latin America. Activities Educational One aim of HOLA is to serve as a resource and guide for Tulane faculty and students who are interested in initiating research or other types of educational activities in Latin America. Students interested in summer research opportunities, practicum experiences, and independent study time in Latin America are encouraged to contact the HOLA Director for guidance. Research The main research areas being conducted through the Health Office for Latin America focuses on emerging infectious diseases and cervical cancer prevention. Moreover, some of the HOLA health projects focus on the intersection between human, animal and animal health: planetary health. Through collaborations with colleagues from multiple disciplines – ecology, medicine, veterinary sciences, geography – our research focuses on health issues within their setting and context. Current Funded Research in Peru “Quantifying Heterogeneities in Dengue Virus Transmission Dynamics”. The major goals of this NIH/NIAID funded P01 project are to define key host-level heterogeneities that drive the spread of the mosquito-borne dengue virus. Tulane is one of the leads in Project 2 that focuses on examining the heterogeneity in the perceived symptoms and behavioral responses, including fine scale movement, to dengue. “Improving participation in door-to-door vector control campaigns”. The main objective of this NIH-funded R01 grant is to evaluate three strategies guided by behavioral economics principles to increase community participation in spraying to reduce triatomines and, in turn, prevent Chagas disease. The study is taking place in Arequipa, Peru. “Translating Molecular Diagnostics for Cervical Cancer Prevention into Practice.” The goal of this NIH/NCI funded R01 grant is to move a strong evidence base for the use of HPV-based screening assays into a sustainable screen-and-treat cervical cancer prevention program appropriate for the health care environment in Peru. This study is taking place in Lima and Iquitos. “The effect of anthropogenic perturbation on habitats”. The main objective is to evaluate effects of landscape changes resulting from anthropogenic habitat perturbation – specifically the construction of the asphalted Inter-Oceanic Highway through the biodiverse Madre de Dios region - on abundance, distribution, species diversity and composition of rodent communities. As part of this project, we are also examining the vulnerabilities and quality of life of individuals living along the Inter-Oceanic Highway. “Inter-American Training for Innovations in Emerging Infectious Diseases”. The goal of the program is to build teams of interdisciplinary researchers who can creatively and sustainably address challenges of emerging infectious diseases through development of low cost-effective tools. This NIH/Fogarty Center funded training grant funds post-doctorates from diverse disciplines to work together. “Tulane-Xavier Minority Training in International Health”. This goal of this school wide training grant funded by the NIH National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities is to to provide training opportunities in international health for minority undergraduate and graduate students Researchers Tulane Researchers Valerie A. Paz Soldán, PhD, MPH Director, Tulane Health Office for Latin America Associate Professor, Department of Global Community Health and Behavioral Sciences Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine Calle Perez Roca 148A, Dpto 301, Barranco Telf: (+51-1) 418-7404 Celular: (+51) 94020-6810 Skype: vpazsoldan Affiliated Tulane Researchers Working In Latin America Pierre Buekens – Mexico, Argentina, Honduras Arachu Castro – most of Latin America Maria Pia Chaparro - Peru Thom Eisele – Haiti Joe Keating – Haiti Carl Kendall – Brazil Richard Oberhelman– Peru Dawn Wesson - Peru Josh Yukich – Haiti Current Affiliated Post-docs, Research Associates, and Students Joanna Brown Alejandra Bussalleu German Comina Stella Hartinger Gustavo Hernandez Kelly Jensen Gwen Lee Molly Mastel Nehal Naik Christina O’Neal Amy Powell Gabriela Salmon Liz Tracy HOLA Publications Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University school of public health and tropical medicine 1440 Canal Street New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-5388 Maps & Directions HOURS: 8:30AM-5:00PM Monday-Friday News Give to Tulane Jobs at Tulane Contact Us Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University