Skip to main content Tulane Home Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SPHTM only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Values Leadership & Staff Dean's Advisory Council Accreditation Communications Five Year Strategic Plan History of Tulane SPHTM Admissions Programs & Degrees Quick Degree Comparison Master's Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Public Health Studies Joint Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Departments Biostatistics and Data Science Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Health Policy and Management International Health and Sustainable Development Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences Tropical Medicine Students New Student Orientation: Summer 2022 Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Awards Recruitment All Faculty & Staff Resources Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at SPHTM Teaching Assistant Info Covid-19 Resources Submit your updates Research Office of Research Development and Administration Research Highlights Sponsored Projects Administration On the Front Lines of COVID-19 SPHTM Research Centers Training Centers News About Admissions Programs & Degrees Departments Students Faculty Research News Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Close Congratulations to the class of 2022! If you missed the events or just want to replay for warm memories, visit the 2022 graduation information page. Home / Diego Rose, PhD, MPH, RD tracking code Diego Rose, PhD, MPH, RD Professor diego@tulane.edu 2301 504-9885742 Education PhD, Agricultural economics, University of California, Berkeley MPH, Public health nutrition, University of California, Berkeley, BS, Nutritional sciences, University of California, Berkeley, Biography Diego Rose's research explores the social and economic side of nutrition problems, with a focus on nutrition assistance programs, food security, and the food environment. He has studied disparities in access to healthy food in New Orleans and has developed a framework for how the neighborhood retail food environment influences dietary choices and obesity. His latest research projects examine grass-roots efforts to improve healthy food access in New Orleans and the environmental impacts of U.S. dietary choices. Dr. Rose has served as a consultant to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Food Programme. He teaches nutrition assessment and monitoring and food and nutrition policy. Prior to joining the faculty at Tulane, he worked for USDA’s Economic Research Service on domestic food assistance policy and in Mozambique and South Africa on food security and nutrition. He began his nutrition career as the director of a local agency WIC nutrition program in a farmworker clinic in rural California. Publications Please view Dr. Rose's publications at his NCBI profile page. Faculty Info Research Areas Socioeconomic determinants of nutrition Food and nutrition policy Food access, security, and sustainability Courses GCHB 6690 Introduction to Nutrition GCHB 6750 Nutrition Assessment and Monitoring GCHB 6770 U.S. Food and Nutrition Policy GCHB 6790 Food Security and Resilience Honors & Awards 2014: Tulane President's Award for Excellence in Professional and Graduate Teaching 2011: Paper chosen as one of the "Best of Clinical Nutrition" by American Society of Nutrition 2008: Best paper of the year award from Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior 2005: Delta Omega Public Health Honorary Society Inductee Link to Tulane Home Page SBPS Department Footer Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences 1440 Canal Street, Suite 2210 New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-5391 sbps@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Jobs at Tulane Contact Us Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University