Skip to main content Tulane Home Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents and Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Search SPHTM only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Values Leadership & Staff Dean's Advisory Council Accreditation Communications Five Year Strategic Plan History of Tulane SPHTM Admissions Programs & Degrees Quick Degree Comparison Master's Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Public Health Studies Joint Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Departments Biostatistics and Data Science Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Health Policy and Management International Health and Sustainable Development Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences Tropical Medicine Students New Student Orientation: Summer 2022 Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Awards Recruitment All Faculty & Staff Resources Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at SPHTM Teaching Assistant Info Covid-19 Resources Submit your updates Research Office of Research Development and Administration Research Highlights Sponsored Projects Administration On the Front Lines of COVID-19 SPHTM Research Centers Training Centers News Contacts Get INFO EVENTS INFO TECH HOW TO APPLY ALUMNI & Giving Information For... Close Congratulations to the class of 2022! If you missed the events or just want to replay for warm memories, visit the 2022 graduation information page. Home / Research / SPHTM Research Centers / Center for Emerging Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology (CERPE) tracking code Center for Emerging Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology (CERPE) Global reproductive epidemiology is the primary research activity of the Center for Emerging Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology (CERPE), with research and academic activities spanning several of the SPHTM's departments and the School of Medicine. Goals CERPE takes a broad approach to research, with a focus on: Emerging issues (e.g., congenital Chagas disease, dengue and pregnancy, disasters and pregnancy); Emerging methods (e.g., novel indicators of chronic stress and weathering, implementation research, mHealth); Emerging countries: CERPE is open to collaborations with colleagues from any country but values the close links established with Centers of Excellence from emerging economies (e.g., Argentina, China, and Mexico). Leadership Pierre Buekens, MD, PhD Director W.H. Watkins Professor of Epidemiology Emily Harville, PhD Co-Director Associate Professor of Epidemiology Xu Xiong, MD, DrPH Co-Director Associate Professor of Epidemiology Andrea Lee Meyer Director of Global Health Research Fellows Fellows represent the permanent scholarly body of CERPE and consist of current Tulane faculty members from different departments with strong expertise in reproductive health research and strong interests in global health. Membership as a fellow does not interfere with each faculty member's primary academic role and obligations. Rather, fellows use the Center as a complementary means of achieving research, training goals, and commitments. Fellows have priority rights to use the Center's services, including computer facilities, scientific and software resources, work space, and attendance at seminars. They also receive administrative and logistical assistance in the preparation and submission of proposals. Learn more about our fellows. CERPE Collaborating Partners Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University school of public health and tropical medicine 1440 Canal Street New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-5388 Maps & Directions HOURS: 8:30AM-5:00PM Monday-Friday News Give to Tulane Jobs at Tulane Contact Us Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University