Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences School of Public and International Affairs About Contact Us Support SPIA Students Student Opportunities Student Support Clubs and Organizations FAQs People Undergraduate Political Science Leadership in the Public Sector Minors Graduate International Studies Public Administration Nonprofit Management Policy Analysis Nuclear Nonproliferation Science and Policy Research and Engagement Public Safety Leadership Initiative Genetic Engineering and Society Center Leadership Fellows Academy News Events Give Now About Students People Undergraduate Graduate Research and Engagement News Full Site Navigation About Contact Us Support SPIA Students Student Opportunities Student Support Clubs and Organizations FAQs Undergraduate Political Science Leadership in the Public Sector Bachelor Degree Completion LPS Certificate Program Advance Your Career The Student Experience Internship Experience Student Resources Student Success Military Contact FAQ How to Apply Minors Graduate International Studies Public Administration Nonprofit Management Policy Analysis Nuclear Nonproliferation Science and Policy Research and Engagement Public Safety Leadership Initiative Genetic Engineering and Society Center Leadership Fellows Academy News Events Political Science Analyze how competing interests shape political institutions, public policy, economic environments and individual lives across different societies. Why Political Science? A degree in political science develops these and other professional competencies: Substantive knowledge of politics and government in the United States and around the world. Problem solving that blends empirical applications with theoretical approaches. Effective written and oral communication skills and the abilities to design research and analyze data. Strategic thinking skills that maximize organizational and personal goals. Strong citizenship skills and issue advocacy. As a political science major, you will take part in a variety of programs and opportunities that will enrich your experience at NC State — and beyond. Nothing has prepared me more for what I'm doing now than my time at NC State. Ambassador Gentry Smith ('83) Why NC State? Program Highlights Advising Student Opportunities Minors Honors Internships Political Science majors at NC State benefit from an exceptionally rigorous program that focuses on quality undergraduate education and impactful enrichment opportunities. We offer our students: Small classes in the major (20-40 students); Instruction and mentoring from a faculty engaged in cutting-edge research and guidance by experienced undergraduate academic advisors; Opportunities to engage in research with faculty; Internships in a broad range of professional settings; Proximity to North Carolina’s state capital – offering possibilities to interact with policymakers and political professionals at all levels of all levels of government; Opportunities for participation and leadership in student organizations such as Political Science Club, Pi Sigma Alpha, Model U.N., Mock Trial Club, and North Carolina Student Legislature; and Membership in an intellectually vibrant and engaged community of faculty, students and staff. Explore the Possibilities A political science degree is highly valuable for students interested in public and nonprofit sector careers, private sector industries, NGOs and other international organizations. We offer undergraduate options that allow for narrow specialization or provide a broader scope tailored to your interests and goals. Our two undergraduate degree programs, both of which require 122 credit hours to complete, are the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Political Science and the Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Political Science. Our minor in Political Science or in Law and Justice complements other undergraduate majors and expands post-graduate and professional options. Put yourself out there. Keep an eye out for activities that appeal to you, and follow up! Christopher Stock, political science student Advising‌ Student Opportunities‌ Minors‌ Calendar of Events‌ Campus Resources‌ FAQs‌ Student Spotlight Press Pass: Gabby Chiarenza Interns with NC Governor’s Office A summer internship experience develops skills, confirms career goals, and launches student into her next opportunity. Learn More‌ Students Jumpstart Careers with Spring Internships Political science majors Chase Gaines, Savannah Hill and Robert Morgan complete internships, building skills needed in the professional world. Learn More‌ Degree Options Students interested in the B.A. degree can add a concentration in one of four subfields. Students interested in science, technology, engineering or mathematics may pursue the B.S. option. Click to see the curriculum and all options for course selection in the following degree programs: Bachelor of Arts in Political Science The Bachelor of Arts curriculum in the Department of Political Science requires 122 hours of coursework, which includes 33 hours of political science coursework comprised of 15 credit hours of core course requirements and 18 credit hours of Political Science electives (including a seminar). Degree Requirements (Select Humanities & Social Sciences > Political Science (16PSBA)) Semester-by-Semester Plan Bachelor of arts in political science with a concentration in American Politics Study citizenship and representation, public opinion and political behavior, group dynamics, campaigns and pluralism, and political institutions and the policy process. The American Politics Concentration in the Department of Political Science requires 122 hours of coursework, which includes 33 hours of political science coursework comprised of 21 credit hours of core course requirements, 6 credit hours of Concentration electives (including a seminar), and 6 elective credit hours of political science coursework. Degree Requirements (Select Humanities & Social Sciences > American Politics Concentration) Semester-by-Semester Plan bachelor of arts in political science with a concentration in International politics Study global issues, wars and other armed conflicts, international political economy, international law, United States foreign policy, and comparative political systems. International Politics Concentration in the Department of Political Science requires 122 hours of coursework, which includes 33 credit hours of political science coursework comprised of 15 credit hours of core course requirements, 12 credit hours of coursework in the Concentration (which are divided among courses in Regional Politics, World Politics and a Concentration seminar), and 6 credit hours of elective political science coursework. Degree Requirements (Select Humanities & Social Sciences > International Politics Concentration) Semester-by-Semester Plan bachelor of arts in political science with a concentration in Law and Justice Study the interplay of law and politics in the United States, in international community and in countries around the globe; study the judicial process, the role of lawyers and judges; understand constitutional law, international law and comparative systems of law and justice; contemplate the legal and theoretical dimensions of political life. Law and Justice Concentration in the Department of Political Science requires 122 hours of coursework, which includes 33 hours of political science coursework comprised of 18 credit hours of core course requirements, 12 credit hours of coursework within either the Justice System Emphasis or the Law and Theory Emphasis (including a seminar), and 3 elective credit hours of political science coursework. Degree Requirements (Select Humanities & Social Sciences > Law and Justice Concentration) Semester-by-Semester Plan bachelor of arts in political science with a concentration in Public Policy Study how public and private individuals, groups, and institutions affect government actions and how public policies impact societal problems, Public Policy Concentration in the Department of Political Science requires 122 hours of coursework, which includes 33 credit hours of political science coursework comprised of 15 credit hours of core course requirements, 15 credit hours of Concentration coursework (including a seminar course), and 3 elective credit hours of political science coursework. Degree Requirements (Select Humanities & Social Sciences > Public Policy Concentration) Semester-by-Semester Plan Bachelor of Science in Political Science The Bachelor of Science curriculum in the Department of Political Science requires 122 hours of coursework, which includes 27 hours of political science coursework comprised of 21 credit hours of core course requirements and 6 elective credit hours of political science and/or public administration coursework. Degree Requirements (Select Humanities & Social Sciences > Political Science (16PSBS)) Semester-by-Semester Plan Apply Now‌ Political Science Courses‌ Meet Some of Our Alumni Ambassador Gentry Smith ('83) Smith speaks Arabic and has lived in Japan, Egypt and Burma — a long way from his hometown in Halifax County in eastern North Carolina, where both his parents were schoolteachers. Meet the director of the Office of Foreign Missions at the State Department. Learn More‌ Tommy Scarantino ('95) Scarantino runs the Federal Correctional Institution at El Reno, Okla., home to violent felons and white collar criminals. The day President Barack Obama paid El Reno a visit will serve as one of many memorable experiences in a career that started when Scarantino was an undergraduate at NC State. Learn More‌ Advising Advising Resources FAQs Forms PS Advising Moodle Academic Calendar Resources The Political Science academic advising program is designed to assist Political Science majors in selecting courses and activities that will best empower them to achieve their long-term goals. The relationship between a Political Science major and their academic advisor is collaborative. The effectiveness of the relationship depends on open and timely communication. Advisors provide information about majors, careers, and university policies. They prompt students with questions and suggest resources to help them explore their interests. They also help students to set and reach academic and career goals. The Political Science Advising program is made up of three experienced advisors with diverse backgrounds. All Political Science majors are assigned to one of these advisors, who will help their advisees plan courses as well as support and assist them in succeeding academically. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors will also receive support and advice from an assigned faculty mentor. Meet Our Advisors Dmitri Mitin Office: 210 Caldwell Hall Phone: 919.515.5176 Dmitri Mitin received a Ph.D. from Purdue University and currently teaches research methodology and comparative politics in the Department of Political Science. Dr. Mitin's research interests encompass post-Soviet political evolution, federalism, inter-governmental conflict, and institutional development. Email Dmitri Mitin‌ Casey Champaign Office: 221A Caldwell Hall Phone: 919.515.5052 Casey Champaign received her juris doctor from The University of Illinois College of Law and her M.Ed. from The Pennsylvania State University. A proud member of the Wolfpack, she majored in political science, psychology and philosophy as an undergraduate at NC State. Mrs. Champaign is committed to student success, leadership, growth and development. Email Casey Champaign‌ Will Taylor Office: 228 Caldwell Hall Phone: 919.515.5025 Will Taylor received his M.Ed. from the University of North Carolina Wilmington, with a focus on higher education administration. Since graduating, Will has worked in housing and residence life at both Stony Brook University and Coastal Carolina University. Mr. Taylor is passionate about student support, student success, retention and leadership building. Email Will Taylor‌ Humanities and Social Sciences School of Public and International Affairs 211 Caldwell Hall, Campus Box 8102, Raleigh, NC 27695-8102 919.515.2481 Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Resources for Faculty and Staff Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.