Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences School of Public and International Affairs About Contact Us Support SPIA Students Student Opportunities Student Support Clubs and Organizations FAQs People Undergraduate Political Science Leadership in the Public Sector Minors Graduate International Studies Public Administration Nonprofit Management Policy Analysis Nuclear Nonproliferation Science and Policy Research and Engagement Public Safety Leadership Initiative Genetic Engineering and Society Center Leadership Fellows Academy News Events Give Now About Students People Undergraduate Graduate Research and Engagement News Full Site Navigation About Contact Us Support SPIA Students Student Opportunities Student Support Clubs and Organizations FAQs Undergraduate Political Science Leadership in the Public Sector Bachelor Degree Completion LPS Certificate Program Advance Your Career The Student Experience Internship Experience Student Resources Student Success Military Contact FAQ How to Apply Minors Graduate International Studies Public Administration Nonprofit Management Policy Analysis Nuclear Nonproliferation Science and Policy Research and Engagement Public Safety Leadership Initiative Genetic Engineering and Society Center Leadership Fellows Academy News Events Public Administration Prepare for a career in public service. Develop the leadership tools and knowledge you need to serve, manage and lead public or nonprofit organizations or to conduct cutting-edge academic research. Interest Form‌ Public Administration Public Administration students at NC State enjoy an extraordinary faculty recognized for its research productivity, a highly-ranked graduate program with great flexibility in its elective courses, and North Carolina’s capital city location and proximity to the world-renowned Research Triangle Park. We offer two advanced degrees: a Master of Public Administration (MPA) and a Ph.D. in Public Administration. Many public administration professionals who are currently working part- or full-time pursue their MPA degree with us to study public administration, policy and theory and apply what they’re learning on the job. You’ll get a rich classroom experience that enhances your real-world needs in one of the top ranked MPA programs and the only Public Administration Ph.D. program in North Carolina. Commitment to Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Statement: "We, the faculty of the Department of Public Administration at NC State University, affirm the inherent dignity of all people. We are committed to creating an inclusive and engaging working and learning environment, free from discrimination on the basis of age, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender orientation, racial/ethnic background, and/or religion." Master of Public Administration (MPA) More Info: Application Instructions MPA Courses Degree Specializations MPA Handbook Multiple Masters Programs Our MPA program gives you an integrated, interdisciplinary academic experience. We’ve been preparing professionals since 1968 to lead and serve in public and nonprofit agencies. Our 1,500+ alumni work across North Carolina, in Washington, DC, and across the world. The 42-hour program has several overlapping components: a 24-hour core curriculum microeconomics and statistics prerequisite requirements 18 hours of elective coursework in which you’ll pursue an individualized specialty an internship – unless you’ve already got work experience in the public sector Special MPA Admission Process for Spring 2022 GRE or other standardized test scores are no longer required for applications to the MPA program. Admission to the MPA program is competitive. In addition to demonstrating a commitment to public service, the most competitive applicants will have a strong undergraduate GPA with course work and other experiences indicating strong analytic skills. Master of Public Administration‌ NC State is ranked among the top schools with graduate public affairs programs. 2020 US News & World Report See their rankings‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Ph.D. in Public Administration More Info: Application Instructions Degree Requirements Ph.D. Handbook Contact Us PhD Student Viewbook Our doctoral program will prepare you to teach and conduct research in public management and related fields, or to serve as a research specialist within government agencies and public affairs institutes. NC State offers the only Ph.D. in Public Administration in the state. Our typical candidates have completed an MPA or other relevant graduate degree. All full-time Ph.D. students receive a competitive financial support package including stipend, health insurance, and tuition. Our students are active in research, presenting at major regional and national conferences, with department travel support provided. GRE Waived for Fall 2022 Ph.D. Application Cycle Due to documented challenges in access in meeting the ETS at-home testing requirements during COVID-19, the GRE will NOT be required for 2022 admissions. Supplemental materials that demonstrate statistical, quantitative, and/or research preparation are recommended. These materials may include letters of recommendation from professors of courses taken in statistics, mathematics, policy analysis or economics, previous GRE scores, and/or writing samples reporting on data analysis results. Ph.D. in Public Administration‌ Public Administration News Building Community, Improving Lives Jack Moorman, MPA Alumni and chief of the NC State Police Department, retires Oct. 1 after a 32-year law enforcement career dedicated to the safety and well-being of every community he's served. Read More‌ How I Think and Do: Judge Paul Ridgeway What can you do with an NC State degree in public administration? Ask Judge Paul Ridgeway (MPA '90). He's the senior resident superior court judge for North Carolina's 10th judicial district. Learn more about Judge Ridgeway's job and how he applies his NC State degree in his work. Watch the Video‌ Student Research More Student Research Study Investigates Why Public Employees Break Rules Employees in all industries break workplace rules from time to time. After years of working in government and social services, Casey Fleming wondered why. Learn More‌ Study Highlights Impact of ACA Medicaid Expansion on Uncompensated Care More than six years after it was signed into law, the Affordable Care Act continues to prompt debate. Research from scholars like NC State doctoral student Susan Camilleri helps inform the policymakers who argue on both sides of the law. Learn More‌ Humanities and Social Sciences School of Public and International Affairs 211 Caldwell Hall, Campus Box 8102, Raleigh, NC 27695-8102 919.515.2481 Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Resources for Faculty and Staff Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.