Skip to content Skip to navigation SPICE is a program of the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies. Search form Teaching Resources Lesson Plans Free Multimedia Resources Scholars Corner SPICE Digest Teacher Programs Summer Institute for Middle School Teachers Summer Institute for High School Teachers Seminars for Teachers in Hawaii Community College Programs Student Programs China Scholars Program Reischauer Scholars Program Sejong Korea Scholars Program Stanford e-China Stanford e-Japan Local Programs in Japan News About Meet the Staff Join Mailing List Support SPICE Contact Us Search form Teaching Resources Lesson Plans Free Multimedia Resources Scholars Corner SPICE Digest Teacher Programs Summer Institute for Middle School Teachers Summer Institute for High School Teachers Seminars for Teachers in Hawaii Community College Programs Student Programs China Scholars Program Reischauer Scholars Program Sejong Korea Scholars Program Stanford e-China Stanford e-Japan Local Programs in Japan News About Meet the Staff Join Mailing List Support SPICE Contact Us SPICE Home Stanford Program on International and Cross-Cultural Education Committed to making Stanford scholarship on global issues accessible to K–12 and community college educators and students. Lesson Plans & Teaching Resources We draw upon Stanford University's diverse research, top faculty, and best scholarship to develop effective lesson plans and teaching resources on international topics. Learn About Our Teaching Resources Professional Development for Teachers We run free teacher PD throughout the year, including summer institutes for middle school and high school teachers, a fellowship for community college instructors, and half-day seminars on global issues. Learn About Our Teacher Programs Online Courses for Students We introduce college-level scholarship on global issues to high school students in the United States, Japan, and China through interactive, synchronous online courses. Learn About Our Student Programs Curriculum Spotlight: A Whisper to a Roar The documentary "A Whisper to a Roar" (2012) tells the heroic stories of courageous democracy activists in five countries around the world—Egypt, Malaysia, Ukraine, Venezuela and Zimbabwe—who risk everything to bring freedom to their people. View Curriculum Unit https://spice.fsi.stanford.edu/news/what-does-it-mean-be-american-reflections-st… news What Does It Mean to Be an American?: Reflections from Students (Part 8) https://spice.fsi.stanford.edu/news/china-scholars-program-accepting-application… news China Scholars Program Accepting Applications for Fall 2022 https://spice.fsi.stanford.edu/news/kawasaki-city-mayor-norihiko-fukuda-delivers… news Kawasaki City Mayor Norihiko Fukuda Delivers Inspirational Comments to Students https://youtu.be/ShtOUZ67F-s event New Webinar Recording: "More Than Sports: Using the Olympics to Teach Modern East Asian History" https://spice.fsi.stanford.edu/multimedia/what-does-it-mean-be-american publication FREE WEB CURRICULUM: What Does It Mean to Be an American? https://spice.fsi.stanford.edu/multimedia/civil-and-human-rights-martin-luther-k… publication Civil and Human Rights: The Martin Luther King, Jr. Legacy "Divided Memories" in the classroom Spotlight: Comparing History Textbooks from China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and the United States SPICE develops curriculum units on a variety of global topics and themes. In this video, high school teacher Saya McKenna uses our "Divided Memories" curriculum unit in her senior history class. Watch her students critically examine perspective, bias, and historical narrative by comparing history textbook excerpts from five different societies. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Envisioning and educating for a more just and inclusive future. View Updates Featured Lesson Plans Our lesson plans are content-rich, standards-aligned, and backed by the best Stanford scholarship available. View Full Catalog Uncovering North Korea North Korea remains one of the most misunderstood and misrepresented countries in the United States. American students largely remain uneducated about North Korea, lacking the proper context with which to understand and interpret today's current events. This curriculum unit seeks to fill this gap and strives to bring more accurate information and objectivity to the study of North Korea in U.S. high schools and beyond. View Curriculum Unit View Curriculum Unit A Whisper to a Roar The documentary film "A Whisper to a Roar" tells the heroic stories of courageous democracy activists in five countries around the world—Egypt, Malaysia, Ukraine, Venezuela and Zimbabwe—who risk everything to bring freedom to their people. The film's companion teacher’s guide provides materials that supplement the information and issues explored in the documentary, filmed by award-winning filmmaker, Ben Moses. View Curriculum Unit View Curriculum Unit Divided Memories: Comparing History Textbooks This unit asks students to examine prevalent history textbooks from five Pacific Rim societies and compare their coverage of sensitive historical episodes in the 20th century. As students analyze, compare, and contrast different history textbooks, they are forced to confront some large questions of history—including the possible bias of their own historical knowledge—and encouraged to become more critical consumers of information. View Curriculum Unit View Curriculum Unit Join our Mailing List Sign-up to receive news on upcoming teacher programs, student courses, and classroom resources from SPICE. Sign up now Our Address Encina Hall 616 Jane Stanford Way Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-6055 Navigate Research Education Policy People Centers News Events About Follow Us General inquiries 650-723-4581 Mail Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram Instagram Support Us Learn more about how your support makes a difference or make a gift now Make a gift Top Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.