Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Speech-Language-Hearing: Sciences & Disorders myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About SPLH Select to follow link Careers in Hearing and Speech Website Program Rankings and Accolades Schiefelbusch Clinic Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link BA/BGS Select to follow link Advising Opportunities Accelerated MA Minor Certificates Pre-Requisite Graduate Courses Admission Select to follow link Undergraduate Admissions M.A. Admissions Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Research Select to follow link Graduate Student Research Faculty Research Undergraduate Research People Select to follow link Faculty Department Advisors Department Staff Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Alumni and Friends Giving Contact Student Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Speech-Language-Hearing: Sciences & Disorders Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Speech-Language-Hearing: Sciences & Disorders Our intercampus Program in Communicative Disorders represents one of the country’s premier research and training programs. We provide a comprehensive and rewarding educational experience, and a gateway into your future. Why SPLH? You'll explore stimulating course work, clinical observation, and a variety of hands-on laboratory projects. Learn About SPLH Careers in SPLH KU Speech-Language-Hearing by the Numbers #6 In the nation for Speech Language Pathology Program #10 In the nation for Audiology Program 50% of undergraduates complete a clinical experience Undergraduate Program If you're seeking a career in speech, language, or hearing or interested in normal communication development and communication disorders, this program is a great stepping stone! Get Started Graduate Program Take courses and learn from faculty in two departments and on two campuses. Explore our Program Speech-Language-Hearing: Sciences & Disorders Resources Student Resources Study abroad opportunities, advising, faculty mentor information and more. Check Out Your Resources Degree Options From minors, to majors and certificates and masters, we offer a plethora of options for your SPLH interests. Discover SPLH Degrees Undergraduate Research Projects Our undergraduate students conduct extensive research projects every year. Explore our Undergraduate Research Program Rankings We set ourselves apart from other programs, being nationally ranked and receiving awards. Our Outstanding Ranks Meet Our Department Learn about our faculty, staff and advisors. Faculty Faculty Staff Staff Advisors Advisors Contact Us Find our address, phone number, email address, and directions Contact the SPLH Department 3001 Dole Human Development Center 1000 Sunnyside Ave Lawrence, KS 66045 splh@ku.edu 785-864-0630 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About SPLH Schiefelbusch Clinic Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.