Skip to Content Office of Sponsored Programs Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home About UsExpand Collapse section DUNS No., Face Page and Compliance Information Contact OSP’s Responsibilities OSP Service Guidelines Additional Services Provided Authorized Institutional Representative ProposalsExpand Collapse section Find Funding Before You BeginExpand Collapse section PI EligibilityExpand Collapse section Multiple PIs, Co-PIs Confirming PI Eligibility Not Joined Syracuse University yet? Waivers to PI Eligibility Policy Financial Conflict of Interest Intellectual Property Internal Routing and Review Other Support/Current & Pending Support The BasicsExpand Collapse section Fundamental Principles Procedures and GuidelinesExpand Collapse section PI Responsibilities Syracuse University Policy Federal Rules and Regulations Sponsor GuidanceExpand Collapse section NSF Updates NIH Updates White Papers and Pre-Proposals Writing a Successful Application Application Review Process The SpecificsExpand Collapse section Initial Considerations Budget DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Fundamental Cost Principles Preparing Your BudgetExpand Collapse section Personnel CompensationExpand Collapse section Salary and Wages Fringe Benefits Other Personnel ConsiderationsExpand Collapse section Faculty Effort Course Relief Extra Service and Overload Academic Year Leave Salary Increases NIH Salary Cap NSF 2 Month Rule Non-Key Personnel Other Than PersonnelExpand Collapse section Equipment Travel NSF Participant Support Costs Materials and Supplies Collaborating with Others Publication Costs Tuition Research Subjects Ordinarily Unallowable Direct Costs Indirect F&A Costs Cost Sharing Non-Allowable Costs Budget Tools and RequirementsExpand Collapse section Budget Template Budget Narrative Budget Development Checklist Unusual Circumstances Proposal SubmissionExpand Collapse section Submitting ApplicationsExpand Collapse section FASTLANE application Grants.gov submission tips Application authorization AwardsExpand Collapse section Negotiate AwardsExpand Collapse section Compliance Review Award Obligations Forward Funding Contract Terms Manage AwardsExpand Collapse section Post Award – First StepsExpand Collapse section Collaborating with OthersExpand Collapse section Working with Subrecipients Working with a Consultant/Contractor Compliance – Post awardExpand Collapse section Responsible Conduct of Research – NSF Fly America Act Export Controls E-Verify Post Award ManagementExpand Collapse section Managing ExpendituresExpand Collapse section Cost Transfers Extra Service or Overload Compensation International Travel – Best Practices Meals – Travel and Conferences Items Ordinarily Unallowable as Direct Costs Participant Support Costs Procurement Procedures Unallowable Costs Post Award ModificationsExpand Collapse section Rebudgeting Reporting Requirements Cost Sharing OSP Notices regarding Sponsored Awards CloseoutExpand Collapse section Technical Closeout Subaward Closeout Financial Closeout Record Retention Tools and ResourcesExpand Collapse section OSP Official Procedures Forms, Checklists & Templates Training Materials and PresentationsExpand Collapse section OSP Awareness Sessions – Fall 2019 Presentations Glossary Research Data Search OSP Search Search Welcome Our office assists all members of the University community with the submission of proposals for external support of research, creative, instructional, and service activities. Quicklinks Close dialog Budget Rates, DUNS No, and Face Page Information IRR Form OSP Budget Template (FY22) Featured Pages Research Data Collaborating with Others Forms, Checklists & Templates Training Materials and Presentations Contact Previous slide Next slide NIH R15 Change in Eligibility Projected: Effective October 1, 2022 November 30, 2021 The Office of Sponsored Programs has analyzed the University’s eligibility for the National Institutes for Health (NIH) Research Enhancement Awards (R15) and based on the University’s recent success with receiving consistent NIH funding, we are projected to be ineligible to submit proposals for the NIH R15 program in the next federal fiscal year, starting October 1, 2022. The NIH R15 Program includes the Academic Research Enhancement Award (AREA) for Undergraduate-Focused Institutions, and the Research Enhancement Award Program (REAP) for Health Professional Schools and Graduate Schools. This eligibility determination is contingent on receipt of at least $6 million in select NIH funding for October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022. For the past two fiscal years, we have exceeded $9 million in such funding and thus fully expect to exceed $6 million in the current fiscal year. The analysis of our eligibility has been conducted using NIH public resources and confirmed by NIH program officers. FAQs for R15 Eligibility, based on NIH provided clarifications: I’ve already submitted my R15 proposal. Will I be denied an award if it comes after October 1, 2022? No, the eligibility is only for proposal submissions. Awards may come after this deadline. Will this prevent no-cost extension of current R15 awards? No, current awards will remain in effect and extensions are allowable. Will this prevent renewals of current R15 awards? Yes, the R15 eligibility will cover new and renewal applications. Renewals of current R15 awards will not be allowed. Can we apply in September 2022 for an October 2022 deadline? The submission will come while we are still eligible although the deadline will come after our eligibility expires. To the best of our knowledge and interpretation of NIH guidance, our understanding is that Syracuse University remains eligible to apply in September 2022 for an October 2022 deadline. PIs should verify this information with a Program Officer from the Institute or Center to which they are applying. If you have further questions, please direct questions to Stuart Taub, Director, Office of Sponsored programs at staub@syr.edu. New Guidance: Other Support/Current & Pending Support October 1, 2021 Federal agency guidance on current and pending (C&P) support is changing: NSF – further updated their current and pending support requirements for proposals submitted on or due, and awards made, on or after October 4, 2021. NIH – changes impact applications, Just-in-Time submissions, and Research Performance Progress Reports with due dates on or after January 25, 2022. Other Federal Agencies – Specific requirements for other agencies may differ. Check the program solicitation for requirements. Current and Pending Support, also known as Other Support, is a form typically used by federal sponsors to request information for the PI(s) and Key Personnel’s current and pending research projects. Most federal agencies require Current & Pending Support documents to be submitted: with the proposal or just before an award is issued, and if awarded, they may require any changes to be disclosed in progress reports. When required, please remember to include ALL support including grants, and contracts from all non-U.S. and domestic sources, including internal Syracuse University project support (e.g., CUSE Grants). The format of this requirement varies by sponsor. It is the responsibility of the Investigator/Key Personnel to make sure that all research projects and affiliations are fully disclosed and that the document is completed in its entirety. Recently the Federal Government has been placing additional scrutiny on foreign influence and the impact to federal research. Please see the Foreign Influence in University Research page on the Office of Research website for additional guidance applicable to Syracuse University researchers. These government concerns around foreign influence have resulted in some federal agencies providing additional guidance on what needs to be included in Current and Pending/Other Support documents. Guidance for the specific agencies can be found on the Other Support/Current & Pending Support page of the Office of Sponsored Programs website. This information will be updated as we learn of new requirements from federal agencies. If you have any questions related to Current and Pending Support being reported at the proposal or just-in-time stage or to report changes to Current and Pending Support at the award stage, please contact your OSP Research Administrator. NIH Policies on Other Support, Financial Conflicts of Interest and Foreign Components January 11, 2021 Reminders of NIH Policies on Other Support and on Policies related to Financial Conflicts of Interest and Foreign Components: The intent of this notice is to remind the extramural community about the need to report foreign activities through documentation of other support, foreign components, and financial conflict of interest to prevent scientific, budgetary, or commitment overlap. https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-19-114.html EVENT: Office of Research Awareness Session – Introduction to the Office of Research September 15, 2020 Sept. 23, 2020 | 11:00 a.m. – noon | Zoom Link Join the Office of Research for an introduction to its services. Hear presentations from Office of Sponsored Programs, Office of Research Integrity and Protections, Office of Technology Transfer, Office of Proposal Support Services and The SOURCE – Syracuse Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement. Registration is required. Register at: https://syracuseuniversity.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJMkfuuqqDgsGNWd0hJ9xFoW0jocDI3E8pVh. After registering, you will immediately receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. New NSF Required Formats for Biosketches and Current and Pending Support May 8, 2020 Please note this important message from NSF regarding upcoming changes to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending Support sections that go into effect for NSF proposals submitted or due, on or after October 5, 2020. For additional guidance, please visit our NSF Updates page. New NIH Forms Package (Forms-F) May 8, 2020 The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has released a summary of changes for FORMS-F, an updated version of the NIH application package. FORMS-F will replace the current application package, FORMS-E, for proposals due on or after May 25, 2020. Please see this PDF document (link to NIH site) for a summary of all proposed changes. For additional guidance, please visit our NIH Updates page. Syracuse University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Guidance for Researchers March 24, 2020 For the most recent updates and FAQs on COVID-19 for researchers, please visit the Office of Research website. Office of Sponsored Programs – COVID 19 Response March 17, 2020 **Updated 3/25/2020** As COVID-19 crisis continues to unfold, the Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) has transitioned to a virtual office environment and is continuing to provide full service and staffing to maintain our normal levels of faculty and staff support. Please contact your OSP Research Administrator by email with any request that you may have for assistance with the submission of a proposal, the setup of an award, or any other questions that you may have. The OSP Director will come to campus upon request on an as-needed basis, for essential business only. Please contact the OSP Director by email if an urgent matter arises and his presence is required for essential purposes on-campus. As new information about the COVID-19 crisis is being received with increasing frequency, please check OSP’s home page for the most up-to-date information related to our office’s service provisions. OSP remains ready and available to serve the campus community in the preparation, review, and submission of proposals to external funding agencies, as well as, setting up new funding awards as they are received. During this time, the preferred contact mechanism for service requests to OSP is by email to the addresses below. However, if phone is the only option please leave a voice message for the intended party and it will be retrieved and responded to accordingly. OSP Staff Email Phone Stuart Taub, Director staub@syr.edu 315-443-9356 Lisa Kaley-Heyn, Associate Director Lvkaleyh@syr.edu 315-443-9357 Amy Deppa, Research Administrator asdeppa@syr.edu 315-443-9355 Amy Graves, Research Administrator ajgraves@syr.edu 315-443-9360 Ross Gullo, Research Administrator rgullo@syr.edu 315-443-1121 Jennifer Ho Manion, Research Administrator chomanio@syr.edu 315-443-8252 Caroline McMullin, Research Administrator cmcmulli@syr.edu 315-443-9358 Heather DiBlasi, Subaward Administrator hmdiblas@syr.edu 315-443-2510 Peter Humphreys, Grant & Contracts Assistant phumphre@syr.edu 315-443-2807 OSP General Office Email Address ospoff@syr.edu Sponsored Travel Guidance Regarding COVID-19 March 13, 2020 The Offices of Sponsored Programs and Sponsored Accounting are working to provide the most up to date information related to the current COVID-19 situation as it evolves, specifically as it relates to policies and regulations pertaining to the administration of sponsored awards. We understand that this situation is fluid, and impacts on sponsored project related travel may be felt at varying levels of complexity. While the federal guidance on these matters is developing, we are providing the most current information that we are aware of. Our top two federal funding agencies, the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health have both issued recent FAQ updates specifically addressing the COVID-19 outbreak, and how to address grant related travel interruptions or cancellations, here: National Science Foundation: https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2020/nsf20053/nsf20053.jsp?org=NSF#q11 National Institutes of Health: https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-20-086.html Consistent with guidance provided by the federal sponsoring agencies, we suggest the following steps related to upcoming travel plans utilizing sponsored funding. First and foremost, the University’s Travel Policy and the sponsoring agency’s most recent travel policy should be consulted, to provide the initial framework for cost allocation and allowability. If travel plans have not yet been made, we recommend temporarily postponing travel to a future date. If travel was a requirement of the sponsored project, your program manager should be alerted to the delay and their guidance sought in coordination with the OSP office. Travelers who have already purchased tickets or incurred expenses for travel on sponsored programs which are subsequently cancelled are encouraged to: Rebook unused airfare and cancel lodging reservations and conference fees whenever possible. Request a refund of all travel expenses incurred. Request a credit of all travel expenses incurred. Should options a. through c. above be unsuccessful, please contact the Offices of Sponsored Programs at ospoff@syr.edu or 315-443-2807, and Sponsored Accounting contacct@syr.edu or 315-443-2059, to further investigate the allowability of such expenses to sponsored projects, depending on the facts and circumstances of the event, and in conjunction with the University Travel Policy and the sponsoring agency’s most recent travel policy. As further guidance becomes available from federal agencies or other relevant sources, we will continue to provide updates accordingly. Third Party Engagement on Sponsored Programs – New Form August 23, 2019 A new Third Party Engagement on Sponsored Programs form has been posted in the forms section of the Sponsored Programs website. The purpose of this form is two-fold. The first to assist in identifying the collaborative relationship and the second to comply with procurement policies requiring full and open competition. When working with third party (external) collaborators on a sponsored project, determining the proper method of engagement (subrecipient/consultant/contractor/vendor) is determined by evaluating the type of work to be performed and the characteristics of the collaborating entity. It is recommended that this determination be made at the proposal stage so that budgets can be prepared accurately. Page 1 of the form will assist in this determination. When a sponsored project with third party collaborators is awarded, a process is initiated to formalize the collaboration. The process differs based on the subrecipient / consultant / contractor determination that is made. However, justification related to the selection process is required for most third party relationships. Requirements for Subrecipients and Consultants are included in Page 2 of the Third Party Engagement on Sponsored Programs form while requirements for Contractor/Vendors are managed by Purchasing. The Office of Sponsored Programs ensures that Subrecipient and Consultant engagements are properly established and executed. Therefore, both pages of the new Third Party Engagement on Sponsored Programs form must be submitted when requesting subawards or execution of consulting agreements on your awards. Contact the Purchasing department for direction regarding requirements for Contractor / Vendors / Purchased Services relationships. Previous 211 Lyman Hall | Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.2807 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy