Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Galleries Directory Sports and Recreation Payne Whitney Gymnasium (PWG) PWG Hours PWG Summer 2022 COVID Guidelines PWG Activity Space Schedules PWG Membership & Lockers PWG Guidelines & Policies Yale COVID-19 Information PWG Announcements Personal Training Personal Training Interest Form Personal Trainer Profiles Personal Training Rates & General Info Fitness & Wellness Classes Group Fitness & Wellness General Information Group Fitness & Wellness Class Schedule - Summer 2022 Register for Group Fitness & Wellness Classes Group Fitness & Wellness Instructors Group Fitness & Wellness Class Descriptions Group Fitness & Wellness Class Guidelines & Policies Club Sports & Intramural Sports Field Shuttle Bus Schedule Undergraduate Intramurals Graduate & Professional Intramurals Club Sports Auxiliary Recreation Facilities Cullman-Heyman Tennis Center Ingalls Rink Yale Golf Course Coxe Cage McNay Family Sailing Center Outdoor Education Center (OEC) Summer Employment Hours & Membership Membership Application & Brochure Rentals - Cabins, Campsites & Facilities Directions & Contact Information Map Covid Policies 2022 Patron Information and Regulations Summer 2022 Rules, FAQs & Advisories Outdoor Education Center Gallery Outdoor Education Center Weddings Contact and Connect with Us! Subscribe to Email Announcements Follow Us on Instagram Schedule a PWG Membership Service Appointment Directory Yale Varsity Athletics Yale Athletics Ticket Office Yale Athletics Gear Home > Club Sports & Intramural Sports > Club Sports Club Sports The Club Sports Program is Not Currently Accepting New Club Sport Petitions. Additionally, for the 2021-2022 academic year, due to Covid-related issues, the University is not allowing out-of-region travel necessitating air travel. Any travel must be by vehicle/bus and within one day’s drive of campus. The William Clay Ford Club Sports Program at Yale University was initiated about 70 years ago by Edward C. Migdalski, a national leader and pioneer in outdoor recreation and club sports. The Athletic Department recognized only seven clubs – then called “Minor Sports”–fishing,pony polo, riflery, rugby, sailing, skiing, and trap shooting. Ed’s first accomplishment was to change the program name from “Minor Sports” to “Club Sports” because he believed that “there is no such thing as a minor sport.” Although some clubs remain solely recreational, most are highly competitive. National collegiate championships have been won by men’s basketball, women’s volleyball, croquet, fishing, polo pony, rugby, sailing, and skeet shooting. Additionally, numerous individual national collegiate championships have been won by a variety of club athletes. In 1976, Brad Simmons, captain of the Yale Skeet and Trap Club, was the first civilian shooter in twenty years to make the U.S. Olympic Skeet Team. Since 1984, the Club Sport Program has been directed by Tom Migdalski, who also oversees intramurals and manages the Outdoor Education Center at Yale. Tom holds a Master of Science Degree in recreation and college teaching from Southern Connecticut State University. He was a nationally-ranked collegiate skeet shooter and is the skeet & trap club coach at Yale; he is the recipient of the “Outstanding Service to Collegiate Shooting Sports” award. Tom has promoted the growth of clubs from 18 in 1984 to approximately 50 currently registered teams. He is staff advisor to the rifle, pistol and fishing clubs. Tom is a US Coast Guard-certified captain and is a member of the Outdoor Writers Association of America. Migdalski’s programs are supported by Administrative Assistant Leigh Fitzpatrick, who has worked to renovate club sports with Tom since January 1999. Definition Any group of Yale University undergraduate students, voluntarily organized to pursue an athletic, recreational sport not otherwise offered at Yale. A club sport must have the potential to compete in a physical activity; but, competition is not mandatory. Purpose 1) To fill the need for uniquely structured sport activities that may be competitive, recreational, or instructional in nature. 2) To provide a learning experience through student involvement in fund raising, organization, administration, budgeting, leadership, and scheduling- in addition o athletic skill in a favorite sport. Opportunities Club sports offer the advantages of student leadership, flexibility, and non-regimentation. Clubs are open to all Yale undergraduate and graduate students (with a required ratio of 3:1 or greater); a few also accept staff, faculty, and alumni as “assistants.” And most clubs are coed. Club privileges include use of the Yale name, a small budget and athletic facilities when available. Most clubs supplement their budget through membership fees and fund raising. Clubs are supervised by the Athletic Department, but the day-to-day operations are run by club-nominated student officers. These functions include scheduling practices and matches, contacting trainers and referees, arranging transportation and budgeting. All new clubs have a one year probation period before they qualify for department funding. For further information contact the Club Sports Office at (203)432-2492 or stop by the office at 521 Payne Whitney Gymnasium. Additional NavigationClose Club Sports & Intramural Sports Field Shuttle Bus Schedule Undergraduate Intramurals Graduate & Professional Intramurals Club Sports Club Sports Directory Covid Guidelines Spring 2022 Directions/Parking & Field Map Club Sports Forms Club Sports Handbook Club Sports Gallery Club Sport Regulations Club Sport Annual Notices Club Sports Calendar Concussion Information Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Other Helpful Sites Yale Student Wellness Being Well at Yale Undergrad Intramurals Yale University Athletic Department Follow Us on Instagram Yale Payne Whitney Gym | Address: 70 Tower Pkwy New Haven, CT 06551 | Phone: 203-432-1444 Copyright © 2018 Yale University · All rights reserved · Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr