Skip to main content School of Public Policy Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Us About the School Accreditation News Events School of Public Policy Newsletters Maps and Directions Contact Us Undergraduate Program Overview B.S. in Public Policy BSPP Curriculum SPP Undergraduate Courses Admissions Overview Minors Certificates Undergraduate Internships Policy Task Force Five-Year B.S. / M.S. Program Graduate Graduate Program Overview Doctorate Programs Ph.D. Degree Requirements Ph.D. Application Process Joint Ph.D. Program with GSU Funding Sources for PhD Students Masters Programs M.S. in Public Policy MSPP Curriculum Areas of Concentration Admissions Overview M.S. in Cybersecurity (Policy) Online M.S. in Cybersecurity (Policy) Dual MSPP / MSCRP Degree Five-Year B.S./M.S. Program Master of Sustainable Energy and Environmental Management (MSEEM) Curriculum Admission Overview Certificates Certificate in Science, Technology and Society Certificate in Public Policy Certificate of Sustainable Energy and Environmental Management (CSEEM) Financial Aid People Faculty Research Affiliates Staff Students Activities Atlanta Academy on Science and Innovation Policy Georgia Tech Mock Trial Team Intellectual Property Student Organization Meg & Sam Flax Lecture Series on Public Policy Research Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy Energy, Climate, and Environmental Policy Ethics and Philosophy of Science and Technology Science and Engineering Organizations, Education, Careers, and Workforce Economic Development and Smart Cities Information and Communication Technology Policy Program Evaluation, Public Management, and Administration Policy Process, Leadership, and Pre-Law Publications Faculty by Research Area Book and Journal Editors Centers Research Center Overview Center for Advanced Communications Policy Center for Ethics and Technology Climate and Energy Policy Laboratory Internet Governance Project Reflect! Lab Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy Co-Lab Technology Policy and Assessment Center Center for the Study of Women, Science, and Technology Alumni / Careers Alumni Services Objectives and Services Network to Succeed Campus Links Career Pathway Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Welcome Developing Policy Leaders for Our Technology-Driven World Situated within one of the world's premier technological universities, the Georgia Tech School of Public Policy works to define and shape the discourse around global public policies. Our research and curriculum focus on understanding the global impact of science, technology and innovation on society, and nurture transdisciplinary leaders who can analyze and make ethically-informed decisions in the public interest. Recognizing the vital diversity of perspectives in a culturally- and technologically-evolving society, we endeavor to make a positive impact on the most challenging human issues of our time. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Pre-Law Program Cybersecurity Policy Sustainability Management Intellectual Property School of Public Policy Headlines Online Cyber Student Publishes Cybersecurity Book for Kids Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized as RSA Scholars Kostyuk to Research Peace Settlements, Misinformation in Ukraine Oh, The Places You'll Go! Ivan Allen College Celebrates Class of 2022 Graduates Marilyn Brown Tapped as First Woman to Receive Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award Capstones Showcase Public Policy Seniors’ Work on Clean Energy, Racial Wealth Gap More School of Public Policy News Features Blurb / Gallery Set School News Feature The D.M. Smith building, home of the Georgia Tech School of Public Policy, has been approved for a $26 million dollar renovation. Alumni Highlight School of Public Policy alumni is named to the Meaningful Business 100 list. Student Research Feature Capstones Showcase Public Policy Seniors’ Work on Clean Energy, Racial Wealth Gap Student Feature Mock Trial Heads to Nationals for the Fifth Time in Six Seasons Tweets by @sppgatech The School of Public Policy Graduate Programs rank among the nation's top in Public Affairs, and the school was ranked #4 in the nation for Information and Technology Management by U.S. News & World Report Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Public Policy D.M. Smith Building 685 Cherry Street Atlanta, GA 30332 - 0345 Phone: 404-385-8577 Fax: 404-385-0504 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Degree Programs Undergraduate Admission Graduate School Office Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Financial Aid Office Philosophy Minor Student Resources Campus Recreation Center Campus Safety Ferst Center for the Arts Georgia Tech Career Services Georgia Tech Diversity Resources Georgia Tech Housing Services Minority Educational Services Student Groups Student Health Center The Language Institute College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology