Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Certificates & Certifications Career & Communication Accelerator Career & Communication Accelerator Toggle sidebar menu visibility Career & Communication Accelerator Course Features Dates and Prices Contact Play Career & Communication Accelerator Realize your full potential in the U.S. job market. Collaboratively designed and taught by Columbia University’s American Language Program and Career Design Lab, the Career & Communication Accelerator prepares graduate students to gain a competitive edge in the U.S. job market through a combination of advanced English language instruction and professional communication skills. Language is one of the most valuable and universal forms of currency in today’s global economy. For more than 100 years, students from around the world have come to Columbia University to develop English fluency – and to unlock an expansive world of career opportunities. Open to admitted Columbia University graduate students, the Career & Communication Accelerator course is designed to help students whose first language is not English to prepare to enter a highly-competitive job market and to achieve long-term success in the U.S. workplace through practical, real-world exercises and lessons. With instruction and guidance from career experts from Columbia University’s Career Design Lab, students will build a professional portfolio of job application materials so they will be ready to engage with hiring managers and talent acquisition leaders right away–just in time for the recruitment period for the top Summer 2023 internships. At the end of the course, students will receive a Certificate of Completion and LinkedIn Badge. Learn more by watching the welcome video. Reserve Your Spot The course registration deadline is May 20, 2022. This course is open only to Columbia University graduate students whose first language is not English. (Newly admitted SPS students who are required to take the ALP's summer Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students course must enroll in that course.) Class Students participate in 17.5 hours of live class each week on Zoom. Support Students have the option to participate in weekly language and career development small group sessions. Coaching Optional 1:1 appointments with CDL Career Coaches & language instructors are available upon request. Hands-On Practice & Real-World Application Participants will: create a “professional portfolio” with job application materials for the U.S. market improve accuracy and appropriateness in written professional correspondence craft, review, and revise a resume, cover letter, and letter of inquiry build fluency, intelligibility, and confidence in speaking during U.S.-based job interviews, career fairs, networking events, and industry conferences practice and refine interview answers and personal pitches practice networking and small talk learn to leverage professional career tools Personalized Career Guidance Participants will benefit from: regular small group / 1:1 coaching sessions from course instructors feedback and guidance from a CDL Career Coach guest speakers including corporate leaders, industry experts, career development authorities, and Columbia University faculty access to a career toolbox with premium subscriptions See how the Career & Communication Accelerator course prepares you to realize your full potential in the U.S. job market. Play Play Connect with Us Contact the American Language Program at Columbia University to learn more. David Taylor-Tumilty, Senior Admissions Counselor 212-853-7243 sps-cca@columbia.edu Schedule an Appointment If you would like to discuss your interest in greater detail, you can schedule a Zoom or phone appointment with David Taylor-Tumilty, Senior Admissions Counselor. Appointment Hours: 10:00 a.m.– 4:00 p.m. ET, Monday–Friday Schedule an Appointment Reserve Your Spot This course is open to Columbia University graduate students whose first language is not English and who are not required to take the ALP's summer Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students course. Reserve Your Spot * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Related News Alumni How Alumna Moshmi Sanagavarapu Transitioned Her Career in Analytics Strategy from India to the U.S. "Once you get the acceptance letter, you should focus on.. understanding all of the resources that the university has to offer." Impacts and Insights 8 International Students Reflect on the Job Preparation Process We asked Actuarial Science, Applied Analytics, ERM, and Technology Management students and alumni how they secured U.S. jobs. What Are the Top Three Myths of the U.S. Job Market? “There are no jobs for international students. Employers don’t want to hire them.” Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy