Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Executive Education Programs for Individuals Executive Education Toggle sidebar menu visibility Request Information Executive Education Programs for Individuals Overview Bioethics Strategic Communication: International Perspectives Overview Apply Schedule Faculty Fee Admissions Overview Application Process Contact Contact Us Secondary Breadcrumbs Programs for Individuals Strategic Communication: International Perspectives In light of COVID-19, the Strategic Communication: International Perspectives program is postponed until 2023. A week-long program for seasoned corporate communication executives to learn, explore, and share leading practices to operate effectively in a global marketplace. Taught by Columbia University thought leaders in the field of strategic communication, Strategic Communication: International Perspectives enables seasoned corporate communication executives to share best practices and understand the importance of operating through a strategic lens. Participants in this intensive program will learn how to respond to the challenges and opportunities presented by operating in a global marketplace, and acquire thinking habits to offer superior strategic counsel to internal and external constituents. What You Will Learn How to: Develop a strategic mindset for communication Deploy effective crisis communication Develop employee communication as a strategic capability Understand the changing social media landscape Build cross-cultural intelligence Use the power of corporate communication to enhance reputation Align leadership and personal responsibility Who Should Register Executives with at least seven years of experience and global responsibilities in communication, media relations or PR Follow us on TWITTER LINKEDIN Related Programs Master's Degrees Strategic Communication Utilize strategic perspectives, critical thinking, and exceptional communication skills to inspire action. Program Options On Campus, Hybrid Full-time, Part-time Connect with Us Learn more about the Executive Education programs at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program director. Request more information Isabel Mayoral, Outreach Director, Executive Education im2389@columbia.edu Programs for Individuals Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies offers a wealth of rigorous programs in many specialties designed to accelerate professional careers. Learn more about our offerings. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy