Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics english language programs English Language Programs American Language Program Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information English Language Programs American Language Program Overview Intensive English Program Overview Intensive Academic English Program Advanced Academic Preparation (Summer) Online English Courses Part-Time English Courses Overview Academic Writing Listening and Speaking Pronunciation Business English Course Winter Cultural Course Apply to the ALP Overview Apply for your Visa Levels, Testing, Placement and Promotion Overview Levels Testing Placement Promotion Student Resources Overview Advising Dining Health Information Housing Language Exchange Program Policies Student Life Withdrawal About the ALP Overview Accreditation How We Teach Our Mission Faculty and Staff Special Admission Courses for Columbia Students Overview Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students Advanced Academic Writing for International Students (GS) Advanced English for MA Thesis Writing English for Advanced Legal Study English for Professional Purposes: International and Public Affairs English for SIPA (U6950) International Teachers Fellows Testing & Training Student Visa & Immigration Information Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Secondary Breadcrumbs English Language Programs International Teaching Fellows Testing & Training The ALP offers specialized language and teacher training for International Teaching Fellows (ITFs) earning their doctoral degrees through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. All departments with ITFs whose first language is not English are required by GSAS to have them screened by the ALP in order to ascertain their readiness to begin their teaching duties. See section A.4 of the Graduate Student Teaching Guidelines. Testing Placement into the training course is determined by testing of spoken English. Online Screening Test During orientation week in Fall, the ALP runs a 30-minute proctored screening test. This test screens out those who do not need our support, and indicates those who would clearly benefit from it. The screening test is computer-based and requires test-takers to respond to four scenarios by speaking. Responses are rated by trained ALP faculty on the basis of intelligibility, sociolinguistic ability, grammar and vocabulary, and effective task completion. Test-takers with low scores on this screening test are required to take the ITF training course. Those with high scores are waived. Those with mid-range scores are asked to return for a face-to-face teaching demonstration. Face-to-face Teaching Demonstration During week one of the fall semester, the ALP further tests ITFs with mid-range scores on the screening test. This second test provides a final determination as to whether the course would be beneficial. The teaching demonstration consists of a brief unscored introduction, an explanation of part of a syllabus, and a prepared presentation. The syllabus excerpt is provided to test-takers when they arrive for the test, and they have 5 minutes to plan how they will present it. The prepared presentation is a 10-minute explanation of an introductory concept in their field. This presentation is prepared by the test-takers in advance. Test-takers have access to a blackboard for visual support. Two trained ALP faculty members are present for the teaching demo. They interact with the student, asking questions and requesting clarification as students might during a recitation or office hours. They simultaneously rate the student’s pronunciation, grammar and vocabulary, rhetorical organization, and question-handling. Test-takers whose scores fall below 7.5 on a 10-point scale are required to take the training course. Training Course Course description The purpose of the course is to help ITFs to be effective teachers and participants in academic life within their departments and across the university community. In class, ITFs will study and practice the system of North American English pronunciation, including individual sounds, stress in words, rhythm, and intonation. They also study and practice teaching techniques, conversation and discussion skills, cross-cultural communication strategies, and presentation skills. Presentations and practice activities in class, as well as recorded homework assignments, help ITFs progress toward the learning objectives. Extensive feedback is given in class, on assignments, and in individual meetings with the instructor. If an ITF is teaching during the semester that they take the course, the instructor will visit the lab/recitation/office hour and provide detailed feedback on teaching to the ITF. This course is pass/fail and non-credit. The final exam is a face-to-face teaching demonstration. Dates and Times ITF training classes meet twice per week during the Fall and Spring semesters. Those beginning their teaching duties in the current academic year are prioritized for the Fall classes. Class time varies depending on demand, but there is usually one section offered in the evenings. Classes begin in week two of the semester, and final examinations take place during reading week. Eligibility Only those ITFs directed by their department are eligible for testing and instruction at the ALP. Talk to your departmental advisor if you are not sure if you are included. Tuition This course is tuition-free and is funded by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. For More Information Departments For questions about ITF testing and instruction, please contact the ALP’s Assistant Director, Evan Chan: cme2122 [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu or the Associate Director for Curriculum and Assessment, Maria McCormack: mm624 [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu Teaching Fellows Talk to your departmental advisor. Connect with Us Learn more about American Language Program at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Joel Chaffee, Assistant Director of ALP Admissions 212-854-3584 alp@sps.columbia.edu Apply to the American Language Program Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy