Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics english language programs English Language Programs American Language Program Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information English Language Programs American Language Program Overview Intensive English Program Overview Intensive Academic English Program Advanced Academic Preparation (Summer) Online English Courses Part-Time English Courses Overview Academic Writing Listening and Speaking Pronunciation Business English Course Winter Cultural Course Apply to the ALP Overview Apply for your Visa Levels, Testing, Placement and Promotion Overview Levels Testing Placement Promotion Student Resources Overview Advising Dining Health Information Housing Language Exchange Program Policies Student Life Withdrawal About the ALP Overview Accreditation How We Teach Our Mission Faculty and Staff Special Admission Courses for Columbia Students Overview Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students Advanced Academic Writing for International Students (GS) Advanced English for MA Thesis Writing English for Advanced Legal Study English for Professional Purposes: International and Public Affairs English for SIPA (U6950) International Teachers Fellows Testing & Training Student Visa & Immigration Information Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Secondary Breadcrumbs English Language Programs Advanced Academic Preparation Available in Summer This rigorous eight-week course is designed for students who plan to enter an undergraduate or graduate degree program at a university in the United States. It explores multiple aspects of one central theme and aims to prepare students for university-level academic study by: Focusing on academic writing skills, including: Academic essay format, Source-based writing assignments, Summarizing skills, Vocabulary building, Issues related to plagiarism and academic honesty (paraphrasing, citing sources, and using quotations appropriately) Introducing research skills Improving discussion skills, including fluency and advanced-level vocabulary, thus preparing students for participation in seminar discussions Teaching presentation skills, including pronunciation, vocal projection, and appropriate body language Building listening and note-taking skills by drawing on a variety of resources including: Recorded lectures and talks, Documentaries Teaching skills for coping with extensive reading AAP students can also take advantage of our activities program, with events, workshops and social occasions to help build community and help students enjoy New York City together. Students in the program will have access to Columbia University facilities, including the university libraries and computer labs. Students may access the Dodge Fitness Center (gym) by purchasing membership. I took the Advanced Academic Preparation class, which was very interactive, and students were encouraged to think and contribute to classroom discussion all the time. There were many types of activities which were really challenging. As a result, we not only learned grammar, but also learned fundamental skills like active listening, how to read between the lines, and how to express our ideas and knowledge in effective ways. I really appreciated how the teachers always gave us a lot of constructive feedback. It was apparent that they were really paying attention to each student based on the specific advice they provided to each of us.” Ornwara Tritrakarn - Thailand Dates and Prices Tuition and fees are subject to Board of Trustee approval and may change. For a full explanation of fees, see below. June 21 - August 12, 2022 Application Deadline: May 22 Course Dates: June 21 – August 12 Tuition and Fees Fee Cost Tuition $7,376 Activity Fee $50 Instructional Support Fee $60 ALP Student Services Fee $50 Technology Fee $35 Health Insurance $984 Health & Related Services Fee $225 Books & Materials $75 (estimated) Living Expenses $5,600 Total $14,455 Explanation of Fees* Health Insurance: All ALP students are required to have Columbia Medical Insurance. It is not possible to waive (= not pay) the Insurance charge unless you have comparable U.S. health insurance. Visit Columbia Health for details. Health and Related Services Fee: All ALP students are required to pay the Health and Related Services Fee. This fee covers access to Columbia health services such as medical, counseling, wellbeing, sexual violence response and disability services. For online courses this includes phone/video appointments, accommodations for approved disabilities and access to workshops and training. SPS Activity Fee: this covers SPS expenses relating to orientation, handbooks and events. Instructional Support Fee: this covers class materials and expenses such as playbooks, novels, newspapers, photocopying, theater tickets, museum or event entry. ALP Student Services Fee: this covers internal I-20 processing fees and other SEVIS transactions. Technology Fee: this covers SPS technology expenses, including access to online course management software, Canvas, and tools used to develop online course content. Housing: this is the cost for students in Columbia University Housing. ALP intensive and AAP students are not required to live in Columbia Housing, but can choose to, if available. Living Expenses: this includes food, transportation, everyday expenses, and Housing. This gives an idea of how much money is needed to live in New York so you can plan financially. Students are not billed for living expenses, except for any ALP/Columbia Housing. Books and materials: this is an estimate. Instructors may assign books or media materials during the session and students must buy them. Total: When you apply for an I-20 you must show you have this much money on your financial document. *Note: not all fees are refundable if students withdraw from the program. For a full explanation see the Withdrawal and Tuition Refund page of the ALP website. Apply to Advanced Academic Preparation Requirements Current ALP students must have reached ALP level 7 to be considered for admission. New students must submit a minimum TOEFL score of 85 (iBT) with minimum of 21 in both writing and speaking, or 6.5 IELTS with a minimum of 6.0 in both writing and speaking. On arrival all new students will complete a diagnostic writing exam. Those whose scores fall below ALP level 7 must take the ALP Intensive course at the appropriate level, given at the same dates as the AAP course (Session B+C). Successful applicants will be placed into AAP classes based on their ALP level and TOEFL score. Students will be placed with others of similar ability. To submit your official TOEFL score, please request that ETS send your TOEFL score report directly to the ALP admissions office, using DI Code: 2594, "Undergrad." Application Materials Only online applications are accepted. Requirements: Completed online application form. Nonrefundable application fee: U.S. $150.00 for online applications + $350.00 tuition deposit, payable by credit card only. No application will be processed without this fee. In general, an F-1 (student visa) is required for study in the US. International applicants are required to request an I-20 in order to obtain the F-1 visa and must enroll in a full-time program (18 hours or more per week). If you are already holding an F-1 visa and attending another school you must also transfer your SEVIS record from your current school to the ALP. Please speak to your Advisor at your current school. To receive an I-20, please upload your ALP admission letter with the following documents (see below) to the online I-20 application page (Compass). You will receive your admission letter and I-20 instructions after you are admitted to the program. Bank statement: this document must be in English and dated within the last three months. It must be from a checking or savings account and must show sufficient available funds to pay the estimated tuition, fees and living expenses. • To see required balance for I-20, please see the "Total" amount for your program, above. Sponsor letter: the letter must be in English and dated within the last three months. It must also be signed by the sponsor. If you are sending your own bank statement you are not required to submit a sponsor letter. The sponsor letter is necessary only if a bank statement will be submitted on your behalf by another person. The person whose bank statement you will submit is your sponsor. Your sponsor must submit a letter (sponsor letter) stating that s/he will provide you with full financial support during the period of your study in the ALP. The sponsor letter must be in English and dated within the last three months. It must also be signed by the sponsor. Photocopy of your passport’s identification page. • The page in your passport that shows your photograph, your name and your date of birth. Once your completed application and accompanying materials and fees have been received and processed, you will receive a US government I-20 A-B form. Bring the I-20 A-B form, along with your letter of acceptance and original financial documents, to a US embassy or consulate in your country to apply for a student (F-1) visa. Students must apply online. ALP Levels, Placement & Testing Find out about our levels Learn more Connect with Us Learn more about American Language Program at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Joel Chaffee, Assistant Director of ALP Admissions 212-854-3584 alp@sps.columbia.edu Apply to the American Language Program Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Commission on English Language Accreditation Columbia University American Language Program Intensive English Program is accredited by the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation (CEA) for the period August 2019 through August 2029 and agrees to uphold the CEA Standards for English Language Programs and Institutions. CEA is recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a nationally recognized accrediting agency for English language programs and institutions in the U.S. For further information about this accreditation, please contact the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation, 1001 N. Fairfax St., Suite 630, Alexandria, VA 22314, (703) 665-3400, https://cea-accredit.org/. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy