Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert New Part-Time Hybrid M.S. Available Beginning in Fall 2022, the part-time Master’s degree in Strategic Communication is moving to a primarily-online format for working professionals based in or outside of the New York City area. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Strategic Communication Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Strategic Communication Master of Science: Executive Path Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Master of Science: Full-Time Path Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Scholarships & Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Practicum Career Outlook Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Master of Science: Part-Time Path Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Scholarships & Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Career Outlook Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Executive Education Faculty & Staff News Events & Information Sessions Upcoming Events Previous Events Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Strategic Communication We develop the next generation of leaders in the global communication field. Strategic Communication Master of Science: Executive Path Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Master of Science: Full-Time Path Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Scholarships & Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Practicum Career Outlook Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Master of Science: Part-Time Path Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Scholarships & Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Career Outlook Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Executive Education Faculty & Staff News Events & Information Sessions Upcoming Events Previous Events Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Search terms Succeeding in a 24/7 communications world. Strategic Communication Columbia University's Master of Science in Strategic Communication is designed to respond to the urgent need for strategic perspectives, critical thinking, and exceptional communication skills at all levels of the workplace and across all types of organizations. Taught by distinguished academic faculty and leading practitioners in the field, our offerings provide students with an educational experience that is immediately applicable in the workplace. Upcoming Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jan 20 Save the Date: Strategic Communication Winter Symposium 9:00 am EST SPS Event All Events Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Information Sessions Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Program Paths Include: Master of Science in Strategic Communication: Executive Path For experienced (6+ years) communication leaders who wish to enhance their skills and strategic counsel expertise. Students are typically employed full-time while earning this accelerated degree. Coursework is completed in just 16 months, through a combination of primarily online instruction and on-campus intensives twice per semester. Learn More Master of Science in Strategic Communication: Full-Time Path For early-career communication professionals and career-changers. Students attend courses on Columbia’s New York City campus. The program can be completed in 12 months (three consecutive semesters) or 16 months. (This is the only option for international students requiring a student visa.) Learn More Master of Science in Strategic Communication: Part-Time Path For working professionals looking for flexibility in their course load. This option allows students to earn the degree in as little as 24 months or up to three years. Classes are primarily online with one on-campus weekend intensive at the start of each of the first two semesters. Learn More Executive Education in Strategic Communication Designed as a week-long, noncredit option for experienced communication executives who want to learn and practice strategies that respond to the challenges and opportunities in the global marketplace. Learn More Program Options Program Option Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Executive Path 6+ years of experience as a communication leader Hybrid: Combination of on-campus and online instruction Study while employed; can be based in or outside greater NYC area 16 months, part-time Full‑Time Path Early-career communication professionals or career-changers On Campus Must be based in greater NYC area 12 or 16 months, full-time Part‑Time Path Individuals employed full-time or experienced communications professionals Hybrid: Combination of on-campus and online instruction Study while employed; can be based in or outside greater NYC area Up to 3 years, part-time Fast Facts Leadership The program was launched in 2002, pioneering the field of Strategic Communication. Access Learn from leaders in the professional world, alongside top academics in the field. Opportunity More than 800 program alumni, who hold pivotal roles in a wide variety of organizations. Why You Should Apply to Columbia's Strategic Communication Program Extraordinary faculty with a passion for teaching, who will help you explore the latest communication theories and practical applications to advance your career. A hands-on, interactive, small-class environment in which everyone can learn and thrive. Lifelong friendships and connections with your cohort and highly engaged faculty, staff, and alumni. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni View All Student Adriana Ball, Part-Time M.S. Student, Attributes Her Success As FinTech Publicist to Columbia’s Strategic Communication Program Adriana Ball, a financial technology publicist at DailyPay, credits Columbia with helping her to prepare for her current role. Alumni Part-Time Strategic Communication Student Shanti Reddy Aims to Empower e-Learners Through Coding A Creative Producer for Codecademy, Reddy says she's been able to immediately apply what she's learning in her role. Alumni How Columbia Helped This Writer to Embrace Data in Storytelling Clement Gibson is an avid storyteller, but he knew he would need skills in data analytics to meet market demands. View All Application Process Curriculum Preview Meet the Faculty From the Blog View All Faculty Never Too Late to Learn: Jesse Scinto Reflects on Participating in the SPS Pedagogical Lab The Pedagogical Lab serves as a cohesive model for pedagogical and technological development of SPS faculty. At the Inaugural SPS Next Event, Students Take the Stage to Share Pivotal Realizations and Innovative Ideas At the first SPS Next event, four students delivered talks on the lessons that brought them to their passion projects. Easy is the Secret Sauce Lecturer Joe Pantigoso shares how to get people to do something: make it easy. View All Connect with Us Learn more about Strategic Communication at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 communications@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program is highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy