Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Columbia Summer Session Human Rights Human Rights: Summer Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Human Rights Human Rights: Summer Developed in conjunction with the Institute for the Study of Human Rights (ISHR) at Columbia University – the first academic center in the world founded on an interdisciplinary commitment to the study of human rights – this rigorous course of study emphasizes the applicable interaction between human rights theory and practice. This certification of professional achievement is ideal for leaders of nonprofits, NGOs and those actively involved in corporate social responsibility management. But no matter the field of work, human rights issues are highly relevant to us all. Students and professionals alike can utilize this certification to expand their understanding of key global humans rights issues and better equip themselves with the knowledge and skills needed to effectively navigate delicate conversations that diplomacy requires. In the city where the UN is based, endless opportunities to explore international affairs and human rights exist right at the doorstep of Columbia’s campus. Through the program, students are encouraged to attend discussions, performances, films, and other timely and relevant events that engage directly with the human rights community in New York City. LEARN MORE Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy