Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour News at Columbia SPS Category - Any -AlumniDean’s CircleFacultyImpacts and InsightsIn the CommunityKnowledge BaseOffice of the DeanPress ReleaseResearch & PublicationsSchoolStaffStudentTalks@Columbia Faculty, Staff Instructional Design Team Presents at Online Learning Consortium's Spring 2022 Conference Team presents on student collaboration strategies to support new asynchronous Columbia Master’s programs. Faculty Dr. Len Elmore: Advocate for Gender and Racial Equality in Collegiate Athletics Dr. Len Elmore and the Knight Commission advocate for increased gender and racial equality in college sports. Sustainability Management and SIPA Team Finalists in World Bank Impact Investing Challenge A Columbia team is a finalist for the International Finance Corporation’s Impact Investing Challenge. Alumni, Student Congratulations 2022 M.S. Nonprofit Management Graduates! Check out highlights of the M.S. Nonprofit Management's 2021-2022 academic year and photos of the May 13th graduation celebration: Congratulations 2022 M.S. Nonprofit Management Graduates! Faculty, Impacts and Insights Sports Management Lecturer Russell Scibetti Emphasizes Analytics in Sports Education Scibetti advises sports management students to have a command of analytics to gain a competitive advantage for future careers. Faculty An Insurance Management Perspective on a Risk Management Podcast Chan describes her professional background and how the Insurance Management program was built. Sports Management Students Take Second Place in SportsPro Hackathon 2022 The team originated an effective circular model to reduce textile waste in the sports industry and promote sustainability. Columbia’s M.S. in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Program Hosts Former Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos President Santos discussed the Colombian peace process, peace negotiation, and post-conflict peace-building processes. Watch the Columbia University School of Professional Studies 2021–2022 Year in Review After an unprecedented two years, we achieved. In the Community Bundles Community Scholar Debbie Meyer Cited by NYC Mayor for Literacy Advocacy Meyer is a longtime advocate for more inclusive teaching and support for students with dyslexia. Alumni, Impacts and Insights, In the Community Construction Administration M.S. Alumna Andis Woodlief Named DEI Director At AMFP Take advantage of Columbia’s alumni network, says Woodlief. Celebrating the Columbia University Commencement of the 268th Academic Year In this centuries-old tradition, the President of the University grants degrees en masse to our graduating students. Load More Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy