Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Home Your New York City Experience: A Global Opportunity Welcome to the 2022 Columbia Summer Session! Explore your passions in more than 50 subject areas and experience the city through rich co-curricular activities, now underway. Registration for Session B is still open. Learn More Make the City Your Classroom Join curated educational, social, and cultural experiences to connect with other students and Columbia faculty as you explore New York landmarks and institutions. Learn more Visiting Students Make Columbia—and New York—your lab for learning and making global connections. Explore Your Options Current Columbia Students Get a head start on classes or lighten your course load by fulfilling degree requirements, as you experience summer in the city. See Your Options Adults and Professionals Build your knowledge, your connections, and your career as you hone your professional skills with access to expert faculty. Browse Courses and Certificates Pre-College Students Preview the college experience and explore your interests with courses taught by renowned faculty, both online and on campus in New York. View Pre-College Programs Prev 2022 Session Dates Session A May 23–July 1, 2022 Session B July 5–August 12, 2022 Session X May 23–August 12, 2022 View All Calendars Next Event June012022 06:00 p.m. EST | Online Event Columbia Summer Session 2022: Career Design Workshop Series Read more View All Events COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION Columbia Summer Session offers students the unique opportunity to foster academic, cultural, and career experiences as they advance their studies in the classroom. Through co-curricular learning, students can experience the vibrancy of campus life, amid the energy of New York City. Arts and Humanities Feel the energy of the city as you experience its diverse cultural offerings that supplement on-campus learning. Learn More Economics and Finance Explore your interest in finance and economics while gaining access to industry experts in one of the world’s financial hubs. Learn More Pre-Medical Studies and the Sciences Put theory to practice with the guidance of Columbia faculty and gain access to state-of-the-art facilities. Learn More Social Justice and Public Policy Study and analyze the political, economic, and social systems that impact nations and people around the world. Learn More Summer-Only Certifications We offer three immersive graduate-level Certification of Professional Achievement programs: Critical Issues in International Relations, Human Rights, and United Nations Studies. Learn More See All Subjects Explore new courses being added regularly as well as previous offerings. Important Information INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS & SCHOLARS OFFICE (ISSO) Visa Information Columbia Summer is a gateway to new experiences. Learn more about your options as an international student and find information on visas and the ISSO. View Details COVID-19 INFORMATION Health Safety Protocols The health and safety of our community is the University’s highest priority. All Columbia affiliates are required to follow University guidance on health protocols, found here. Visit the Site 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy