Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Narrative Medicine Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Narrative Medicine Faculty & Advisors Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Faculty Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Narrative Medicine Master of Science (full-time or part-time) Certification of Professional Achievement Apply Now Narrative Medicine Faculty & Advisors Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Faculty Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Listen to our Podcast Search terms Narrative Medicine Narrative medicine is an interdisciplinary field that brings powerful narrative skills of radical listening and creativity from the humanities and the arts to address the needs of all who seek and deliver healthcare. It enables patients and caregivers to voice their experience, to be heard, to be recognized, and to be valued, improving the delivery of healthcare. This evolving transdisciplinary field of enquiry addresses issues of structural inequality and social justice in healthcare. The Master of Science in Narrative Medicine prepares health professionals, writers, and scholars to apply the skills and values of narrative understanding to improve outcomes for both patients and caregivers. It offers a rigorous and in-depth study of close reading of creative texts, illness and disability narratives, narrative ethics, philosophy, creative writing, and other perspectives. The non-degree online Certification of Professional Achievement in Narrative Medicine is developed specifically for students who seek ways to bring narrative methods into their current careers. Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Information Sessions Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events under Upcoming Events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Meet the Faculty Learn about the program's acclaimed faculty, including clinicians and non-clinicians, primary thought leaders and practitioners in the field, and experts in disciplines from creative writing to anthropology. Preview the Curriculum The multidisciplinary curriculum allows students to learn from collaborating closely with both faculty and peers. Upcoming Events Attend events such as info sessions, guest lectures, and Narrative Medicine Rounds, the popular series that runs the first Wednesday of the month during the academic year. Impact Stories Read the stories of Columbia’s narrative medicine community. Program Options Program Option Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) Professional or graduate-level experience in healthcare or social sciences On-campus 2 terms fall/spring plus part-time summer term Practicum/Independent Study Master of Science (part‑time) Professional or graduate-level experience in healthcare or social sciences On-campus 2–6 years Practicum/Independent Study Certification of Professional Achievement Professional or graduate-level experience in healthcare or social sciences Online Up to 3 years, part-time Upcoming Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni View All Alumni Narrative Medicine Ignites Creativity for Students in Careers beyond Healthcare Narrative Medicine faculty and alumni reflect on how the program's courses cultivated their interests and shaped their careers. Alumni A Commitment to Patient Stories Guides Clinical Pathways in Narrative Medicine Narrative Medicine faculty and graduates discuss the potential of the transdisciplinary field. Alumni Dr. Beatrice Khater: Earning Her Certification in Narrative Medicine in the Midst of Conflict in Lebanon How a Beirut-based physician overcame violent conflict while earning her Certification in Narrative Medicine. Alumni Nina Collins: The Importance of Connecting Women Over 40 Narrative Medicine alumna Nina Lorez Collins is a writer, entrepreneur and founder of The Woolfer. Alumni Nicole Robinson on Deepening Her Career by Exploring the Roots of Narrative Medicine Robinson now applies what she learned from Columbia’s C.P.A. program in her current role as a Narrative Medicine Coordinator. Alumni, Impacts and Insights Alumni Create Narrative Medicine Education Platform for Health Care Professionals Taylor and Schneider met and joined forces while taking Columbia’s Narrative Medicine C.P.A. program. View All Connect with Us Learn more about Narrative Medicine at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 narrativemedicine@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy