Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Enterprise Risk Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Enterprise Risk Management Featured Faculty Full-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Preview ERM Coursework Frequently Asked Questions Events Upcoming Events Coding for Risk Management Introduction to Finance Introduction to Quantitative Risk Management (iQRM) Seminars Exploring the Power of Mindfulness with Rajiah Williams Leong Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Enterprise Risk Management Master of Science–On-Campus and Online Certification of Professional Achievement–On-Campus and Online Individual Courses Apply Now Enterprise Risk Management Featured Faculty Full-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Preview ERM Coursework Frequently Asked Questions Events Upcoming Events Coding for Risk Management Introduction to Finance Introduction to Quantitative Risk Management (iQRM) Seminars Exploring the Power of Mindfulness with Rajiah Williams Leong Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on YouTube Listen to our Podcast Search terms Impacting decision-making at the highest levels. The Master of Science in Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program at Columbia University prepares graduates to inform better risk-reward decisions by providing a complete, robust, and integrated picture of both upside and downside volatility across an entire enterprise. The program focuses on all aspects of ERM, including frameworks, risk governance, risk identification, risk quantification, risk-reward decision-making and risk messaging. Graduates gain a dynamic toolkit of advanced risk management skills and approaches that can be applied to enhance value at both the enterprise and silo risk management levels. Graduates also develop the communication skills required to inform and inspire the successful implementation and adoption of ERM strategies. Learn more about the program, including its flexible options and core competencies, in the Enterprise Risk Management Fact Sheet. Download the Fact Sheet Play Fast Facts Prominence Columbia's Master of Science in Enterprise Risk Management is the largest of its kind in the world. Opportunity Graduates have gone on to work at leading organizations like Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and the U.N. Leadership ERM faculty are globally recognized leaders who provide academic and professional guidance. Program Options Program Options Course Formats* Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) On-campus or Online via live interactive classroom 3 terms Capstone Course Master of Science (part‑time) On-campus or Online via live interactive classroom Up to 6 terms Capstone Course Certification of Professional Achievement (full‑ or part‑time) On-campus or Online via live interactive classroom 1-4 terms Non‑Credit Courses On-campus or Online via live interactive classroom Custom * Switching between on-campus and online instruction is possible with administrative approval. Preview ERM Coursework Preview Killer Risks, a brief series of five free lectures that provide a small sample of content from the Columbia University ERM program, illustrating in a fun and interesting way how some important and challenging business issues can be addressed through a well-crafted ERM program. Frequently Asked Questions Get detailed answers to common questions about the master's program as well as the admissions process. M.S. Application Requirements Watch a video-on-demand about the M.S. application requirements and frequently asked questions. M.S. Application Deadlines Review key dates in the admissions process, including priority and final deadlines for the next semester(s). Faculty Profile: Aristargos Christodoulou Lecturer and alumnus Harry Christodoulou credits Columbia's ERM program with inspiring his "enterprise-wide" mindset for managing all forms of risk. Student Profile: U.S. Navy Reserve Commander Daniel Cahill Cahill, who received a Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal in recognition of his leadership on a large-scale risk project, explains how he’s applying his learnings at work. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni View All Benhao Li: From Supply Chain Management to Quant Analytics Li considered offers from J.P. Morgan, Morgan Stanley, and Wayfair. Student After Interning in Asset Management, Qin Liu Discovered Enterprise Risk Management Was the Crown Jewel of Finance She discovered her passion was combining ERM and fintech to power asset management. Impacts and Insights, Student How Enterprise Risk Management Student Tanima Narang Leveraged the USCCA Course in Advance of Graduate School With the USCCA course, Narang got a head start on navigating both the U.S. job market and life at Columbia. View All In the News School Explore the Power of Mindfulness with Rajiah Williams Leong ERM Mindfulness is an online program designed with positive psychology insights and neuroscience research. Impacts and Insights 8 International Students Reflect on the Job Preparation Process We asked Actuarial Science, Applied Analytics, ERM, and Technology Management students and alumni how they secured U.S. jobs. Student ERM Students Compete in Annual Professional Risk Managers' International Association Risk Challenge The students proposed a modern risk dashboard that was coded in MATLAB or alternative software packages. Upcoming Events Jun 3 Coding for Risk Management: Excel VBA 9:00 am EDT SPS Event Jun 4 Introduction to Quantitative Risk Management (iQRM): Financial Math 1 9:00 am EDT SPS Event Jun 4 Introduction to Finance: Risk, Return, Covariance & Correlation Analysis 11:00 am EDT SPS Event All Events Connect with Us Learn more about Enterprise Risk Management at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 erm@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy