Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Actuarial Science Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Actuarial Science Faculty & Advisors Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Actuarial Science Faculty & Advisors Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on YouTube Search terms Online Certification of Professional Achievement in Actuarial Science This program is for those who want to have professional knowledge of the actuarial industry. Columbia’s innovative online Actuarial Science Certification will help you build and expand your knowledge of actuarial science in as few as two semesters. It will also provide a foundation if you are looking to enter the field. At a Glance A dynamic curriculum offered through a highly interactive platform, giving top students around the world the opportunity to study with distinguished Columbia faculty and leaders in the field. Each course supports a personalized path through rigorous content in an online learning environment that encourages social and intellectual interaction between students and faculty. Actuarial knowledge spanning topics including investment and asset liability management, property and casualty insurance, pensions, and life insurance. Network with leading actuaries, including Columbia’s faculty, practitioner network, students, and alumni who work in fields such as life insurance, health insurance, pension, reinsurance, investments, and property and casualty insurance in the U.S. and internationally. Be welcomed into a large Columbia alumni actuarial community who mentor and hire current students. Get your start in the actuarial field and gain the skills necessary to tackle entry-level questions that you may face in interviews or in your first position. Earn certification online in less than a year by taking two classes each semester. Students can matriculate into the Master of Science in Actuarial Science program by completing an additional 24 points (credits). The master’s program is offered on Columbia’s campus in New York City. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni In Their Own Words: Four Ways Columbia’s Actuarial Science Program Sets Students Apart Four students and alumni from the M.S. in Actuarial Science program at Columbia University share the impact of the program. Connect with Us Learn more about Actuarial Science at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 actuarial@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Requirements Institutions providing distance education are required to provide certain general disclosures for educational programs, regardless of modality, that prepare students for professional licensure or certification. The required information relates to whether or not the educational program meets the requirements for professional licensure or certification in all other states. Where applicable, an institution must also indicate when such a determination cannot be made. Professional licensure and certification requirements may vary state to state. This information is also subject to change. Students should contact the appropriate licensing or certification agency for his or her home state to obtain the most up to date information. Actuarial Science The School of Professional Studies Actuarial Science program prepares students for the associate actuarial certification examinations of Society of Actuaries and Casualty Actuarial Society and thereby does meets the academic requirements for certification in all 50 states. Date of Last Revision: July 2020 Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy