Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Faculty Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science (On-campus) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Master of Science (Hybrid) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Practicum in Peacebuilding Students & Alumni Events Overview Webinar Recordings Previous Events Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Transforming conflict on an interpersonal, community, and organizational scale. Apply Now Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Faculty Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science (On-campus) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Master of Science (Hybrid) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Practicum in Peacebuilding Students & Alumni Events Overview Webinar Recordings Previous Events Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Search terms Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Conflict resolution skills are essential for forging and stewarding successful relationships between people, communities, and organizations. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution prepares students to analyze the root causes and dynamics of conflict and to transform disputes through reasoned and resourceful interventions. With courses led by some of the world’s premier scholar-practitioners in negotiation and conflict resolution, the program focuses on developing self-awareness, tenacity, and interpersonal competency; building common ground; opening lines of communication; ensuring representation and recognition; and building sustainable possibilities for resolution. Flexible program options meet the needs of young and mid-career professionals as well as career-changing professionals. Play Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Request Information Find out more about Negotiation and Conflict Resolution at Columbia. Sign-Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Fast Facts Legacy Columbia University has a rich heritage in conflict resolution theory beginning with the work of Morton Deutsch, and is widely recognized as a leader in the discipline. Career Conflict resolution professionals work in a range of fields, including business, law, education, healthcare, and government. Impact Conflict resolution professionals regularly act as arbitrators, mediators, facilitators, and ombuds. At a Glance In This Master’s Program, You Will... Learn from the world’s premier scholar-practitioners in negotiation and conflict resolution. Practice negotiation and conflict resolution in a wide array of settings and contexts, providing an easier transfer of these skills. Join Columbia's robust academic and professional communities, and gain access to the internship, fieldwork, and career opportunities that these networks may bring. Understand the root causes and dynamics of conflict and how to work through disputes through reasoned and resourceful negotiation. Select one or more core areas of focus from options including: local and community dispute resolution; international development and peacebuilding; and conflict resolution within and between organizations. Have access to mentorship and career guidance from the highest levels of the program and across faculty, staff, and alumni. Complete an in-depth Capstone Project in which you will apply theoretical understanding and a research-supported pragmatic approach to transform real-world conflict. Program Features Include… A dynamic curriculum encompassing pragmatic approaches to resolving conflicts in areas such as human resource management, community and labor organization, education and health administration, and law and business. An esteemed faculty of scholar-practitioners who bring practical experience into the classroom. A cross-program focus on constructive communication, ethical understanding, cultural awareness and sensitivity, and resolving conflicts in ways that are favorable to all parties. Access to a diverse alumni network, including those who are working in local, national, and international organizations. Exclusive events, some in conjunction with the Advanced Consortium on Cooperation, Conflict, and Complexity (AC4) and the Morton Deutsch International Center for Cooperation and Conflict Resolution (MD-ICCCR). Practical tools and theoretical frameworks to accelerate your career and achieve your professional goals. Program Options Program Option Course Formats Program Start-Time Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) On-campus* Spring or Fall term 3-4 terms Master of Science (part‑time) On-campus* Spring or Fall term 6-7 terms Master of Science (part‑time hybrid) Online plus 3-week on-campus Intensive Study Fall or Spring term 4 terms Executive Education On-campus 2 weeks * Select courses are available online or in hybrid format. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni FBI Special Agent Deidra Strickland Turning Childhood Dream into Reality Deidra talked about how Columbia’s Negotiation and Conflict Resolution program helps her in her role at the FBI Alumni David Anthony Carten, '21SPS, Negotiation and Conflict Resolution, Moves Forward with His Capstone Project about Wet’suwet’en – Coastal GasLink Conflict Carten analyzes conflict in the Wet'suwet'en territory of British Columbia, Canada. Student Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Student Yin Yu Wins Best Analysis and Presentation at NegotiateUP Amy Jones, a fellow NECR student, also competed, and won the Best Negotiation award. In the News View All News Columbia’s M.S. in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Program Hosts Former Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos President Santos discussed the Colombian peace process, peace negotiation, and post-conflict peace-building processes. Join the NECR Program for Agility in the Moment on 5/2 Today’s most urgent events require a skilled and nimble approach to conflict resolution. School How Are Companies Defining–and Implementing–Agility? SPS master’s programs are collaborating on a multi-disciplinary agility series throughout the academic year. View All News All Impact Stories Upcoming Events Join us for information sessions as well as forums, talks, and webinars on foundational and emerging topics in the field. Webinar Recordings This series presents an inside view on the diversity of work that is currently taking place in the conflict resolution field. Watch Past Events Watch past guest speakers, commemorative events, and talks. Connect with Us Learn more about Negotiation and Conflict Resolution at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 Negotiation@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy