Columbia University Pre-College Programs Programs & Events compare programs > events > immersion programs: New York City immersion programs Engage in a rich and demanding academic experience on Columbia's tranquil campus, in the heart of New York City. Summer > immersion programs: online Dive into an Ivy League education with Columbia’s world-class instructors, and a dynamic online experience. Academic Year > Summer > college edge program Earn credit and prepare to maximize your college experience during the summer and academic terms. Summer and Academic Year > high school coding academy: online Gain computer programming and problem-solving skills in this three-week program taught online by leading coding experts. Academic Year > columbia climate school in the green mountains Join us for the first-ever Climate School pre-college program this summer in Castleton, Vermont. Summer > internship in building community A summer internship for undergraduate and graduate students interested in leadership and community development. Summer > College Edge Calendar FAQ Program Policies Menu Overview Academics Student Life Tuition & Fees Apply Overview Staff Bios Advance Your College Preparation Choose from Columbia courses in dozens of subject areas. Calendars Apply Events Sign Up for Updates Events Apply “The College Edge experience has allowed me to become more hard working than I ever thought I could be, and I have made so many friends with such focus and drive.” – TIMOTHY C. Academically exceptional high school students can apply to take courses with Columbia students and earn full college credit. College Edge is an in-person, commuter program on our Morningside campus. Access to the same courses as Columbia students An Ivy League achievement for your college transcript Academic advising and professional development Real-world experience at an Ivy League institution Summer: Open to domestic or international students entering, or currently enrolled in grades 11 or 12 Fall & Spring: Open to domestic students in grades 11 or 12 Columbia University School of Professional Studies Program Policies Support the Immersion Program Contact us Twitter Facebook Instagram