Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Wealth Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Wealth Management Faculty & Advisors Curriculum & Courses Key Dates About the Master of Professional Studies Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Frequently Asked Questions Events Upcoming Events Past Events Speaker Series News Students & Alumni Columbia Resources Academic Policies & Procedures Contact Search terms Wealth Management Columbia University’s Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management prepares experienced and aspiring wealth management professionals to meet the disruptive challenges of today’s industry. Apply Now Wealth Management Faculty & Advisors Curriculum & Courses Key Dates About the Master of Professional Studies Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Frequently Asked Questions Events Upcoming Events Past Events Speaker Series News Students & Alumni Columbia Resources Academic Policies & Procedures Contact Search terms The future of wealth management starts here. Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management Part-Time | Online | Asynchronous Instruction | 16 Months CFP Board Registered Program The only degree of its kind in the Ivy League. The wealth management industry is at an inflection point. A shifting value proposition, wealth-tech adoption, regulatory changes, the democratization of financial advice and products, and sizable transfers of wealth over the next few decades are just some of the forces that are transforming and creating new career opportunities in wealth management. As client service expectations and the role of the financial advisor have broadened significantly, advisors must embrace a holistic approach to wealth management and understand their client’s goals across multiple dimensions. The success of a wealth management professional calls for advisors to offer a wider array of tailored financial and life-planning advice. Columbia University’s rigorous, multidisciplinary program helps students build expertise in the theory and practice of core areas of wealth management, such as investment, tax, estate, and retirement planning in conjunction with honing important client skills such as communication, psychology, decision making, and relationship management. The curriculum is built around problem-based learning to encourage collaboration, team-building, and critical thinking. This innovative part-time program provides students with the knowledge and skills to have an immediate impact in the workplace and the strategies and tools to successfully navigate a wealth management firm through changes in the coming decade. A 16-month online program with asynchronous instruction, specially designed to accommodate working professionals, Columbia University’s Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management program is taught by elite faculty with deep, applied experience in their respective fields. Additionally, it is a CFP Board Registered Program designed to help students meet the educational requirements for CFP® certification. The future of wealth management starts here – join Columbia University’s Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management program, the only one of its kind in the Ivy League. Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Upcoming Events Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. The Columbia Advantage Strong Academics Cutting-edge curriculum, designed to address evolving industry dynamics, fosters a lifetime of learning within the field of wealth management Extensive Network An active 350,000+ global alumni network and a wide variety of student groups connect fellow alumni across schools, degrees, and graduation years Scholar-Practitioner Faculty The program is taught by elite faculty with deep, applied experience in their respective fields Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Wealth Management Alumni Lisa Patton and Shinaola Atoro Foster Deep Connections to Achieve Tangible Career Outcomes Patton and Atoro became client advisors at Mission Wealth after graduation as a result of their strong cohort connections. Student A Day in the Life of Michael McMahon, Asset Manager Wholesaler and Columbia Wealth Management Student Michael McMahon gives us a sneak peek into his daily life as a full-time professional and Columbia student. Student A Day in the Life of Wealth Manager and Columbia Master’s in Wealth Management Student Vinícius Arold Vinícius Arold invites us to take a look at his daily life as a wealth manager and international student at Columbia SPS. In the News Wealth Management Alumni Lisa Patton and Shinaola Atoro Foster Deep Connections to Achieve Tangible Career Outcomes Patton and Atoro became client advisors at Mission Wealth after graduation as a result of their strong cohort connections. Student A Day in the Life of Michael McMahon, Asset Manager Wholesaler and Columbia Wealth Management Student Michael McMahon gives us a sneak peek into his daily life as a full-time professional and Columbia student. Student A Day in the Life of Wealth Manager and Columbia Master’s in Wealth Management Student Vinícius Arold Vinícius Arold invites us to take a look at his daily life as a wealth manager and international student at Columbia SPS. Meet the Founding Donors of the New Wealth Management Fellowship The inaugural cohort of Columbia’s Wealth Management program funded a fellowship to diversify the financial advising industry. Press Release Columbia’s Wealth Management Master’s Program Launches First Student-Funded Diversity Fellowship Applicants admitted to Columbia's Wealth Management master's program for 2022-2023 may apply for the full-tuition fellowship. The Values Dimension We are experiencing the emergence of the values-based consumer in financial advice. View All News Upcoming Events Jun 8 The Power of Technology in Wealth Management 12:00 pm EDT Public Event Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session View Past Events At a Glance Program Option Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Professional Studies (part‑time) At least 2 years of professional experience Online and self-paced, with two 2-3 day in-person sessions Four terms In This Master’s Program, You Will… Gain core investing and planning skills from industry experts and leaders. Learn how to enhance client relationships with individuals, institutions, and family offices. Understand the holistic goals-based approach to investment planning and the delivery of value-add solutions. Practice applying advanced theory in client psychology and communication to relevant client scenarios and contexts. Understand and utilize evolving technology in wealth management. Articulate emerging trends and learn how to proactively respond to them in a leadership capacity. Receive one-on-one mentoring from program faculty and staff. Engage in coursework aligned with the skills needed to pass the Certified Financial Planner (CFP®) exam. Program Features Include… A cutting-edge curriculum that focuses on problem-based learning with real-world, client-driven applications of concepts and tools. A preeminent scholar-practitioner faculty that includes leading wealth management professionals who bring their insights and experience into the classroom. Academic content is available on demand. This is a part-time, online learning platform tailored for working professionals seeking rigor and structure along with flexibility, convenience, and a virtual community. A collaborative learning environment that encourages teamwork and meaningful relationships with fellow students. Access to an extensive professional network of leading wealth managers, thought leaders, faculty, and alumni as well as career development services and professional development opportunities. Opportunity to develop and present a comprehensive financial plan designed for a client. Through this Capstone course, students will receive direct feedback from peers, faculty, and corporate partners. A CFP® Board-registered program that meets the educational requirements for CFP® certification, the industry’s highest standard for excellence. Who Should Apply?* Current wealth management professionals seeking career advancement Career changers who want to become wealth managers Consultants, accountants, lawyers, and tax specialists looking to advance their overall knowledge and expertise in wealth management Professionals looking to start their own Registered Investment Advisor or family office Individuals looking to satisfy the educational requirements necessary to obtain their CFP® certification *Program requirement of 2+ years relevant work experience APPLY NOW Academic Policies & Procedures The School of Professional Studies (SPS) brings together the scholarly and practitioner worlds in a variety of academic settings. To maintain the highest academic and professional standards, SPS has established a number of policy and procedures for its students to follow. Read More Connect with Us Learn more about Wealth Management at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Wealth Management Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 sps-wealthmanagement@columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Requirements Institutions providing distance education are required to provide certain general disclosures for educational programs, regardless of modality, that prepare students for professional licensure or certification. The required information relates to whether or not the educational program meets the requirements for professional licensure or certification in all other states. Where applicable, an institution must also indicate when such a determination cannot be made. Professional licensure and certification requirements may vary state to state. This information is also subject to change. Students should contact the appropriate licensing or certification agency for his or her home state to obtain the most up to date information. Wealth Management The School of Professional Studies Wealth Management program is a CFP Board Registered Program that satisfies the education requirement for CFP® certification and thereby meets the academic requirement for certification in all 50 states. Upon completion of the program, students must also separately pass the CFP® exam, meet the experience requirements, submit to a background check, and sign the Ethics Declaration in order to earn the CFP® certification. Date of Last Revision: June 2021 Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy