Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Bioethics Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Bioethics Faculty & Advisors Degrees and Courses Overview Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Curriculum Course List & Schedule Concentrations Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Dual-Degree Program (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview How to Apply Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Publications Additional Offerings & Resources Overview Executive Education Careers in Bioethics Bioethics for Premeds News & Impact Stories Events Upcoming Events CLE Events Previous Events Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Bioethics Faculty & Advisors Degrees and Courses Overview Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Curriculum Course List & Schedule Concentrations Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Dual-Degree Program (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview How to Apply Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Publications Additional Offerings & Resources Overview Executive Education Careers in Bioethics Bioethics for Premeds News & Impact Stories Events Upcoming Events CLE Events Previous Events Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Twitter Listen to our Podcast Search terms Certification of Professional Achievement in Bioethics Online or On-Campus Increasingly, practitioners in medicine, law, and research must understand and make decisions on complex ethical and moral dilemmas related to advances in biology, biotechnology, and biomedicine. Solutions require specialized and cross-disciplinary knowledge spanning ethics, law, society, culture, public policy, philosophy, religion, economics, history, and even language. Columbia’s non-degree Bioethics Certification program prepares students to address these challenges through an innovative learning experience featuring face-to-face instruction on campus, live webinars, multimedia, and collaborative course activities. The program features select courses from the Master of Science in Bioethics program. It has been tailored to advance students’ knowledge and skills, using a multidisciplinary approach that draws on medicine, law, philosophy, history, sociology, religion, and other fields. Courses focus on key areas including the history and philosophy of bioethics, clinical ethics, research ethics, law and bioethics, and neuroethics. Courses are offered online and on-campus and are available in both credit and noncredit versions, making it possible for students around the world to study with distinguished leaders in the field. The specially designed online curriculum gives a sophisticated analysis of the historical, philosophical, legal, social scientific, and practical aspects of bioethics. Students who complete four or more courses with a 3.0 (B) or better in each course are awarded a Certification of Professional Achievement in Bioethics. Students are required to maintain an overall minimum GPA of 3.0 (B). Every course creditable toward the certification must be taken for a letter grade. Courses with a grade below a C will not count toward the completion of the certification. Students may also apply to the program and take individual courses without pursuing a certification. Who Should Apply? The Certification of Professional Achievement in Bioethics program is ideal for healthcare professionals and medical practitioners, researchers, IRB members, attorneys, educators, and others interested in the field, including patients and caregivers who have confronted bioethical issues. Apply Now Upcoming Events Jun 14 Columbia University Masters of Bioethics Program Alumni Panel 7:15 pm EDT Public Event Jun 15 Learn More About Columbia University's M.S. and CPA in Bioethics 6:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 30 Promising Approaches to Moral Distress Among Nurses 4:00 pm EDT Public Event View Past Events Connect with Us Learn more about Bioethics at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 bioethics@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy