Apply now MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Home About Overview Information Sessions Accelerated Program Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Us Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financing International Students Admission FAQs Curriculum Integrative Sustainability Management Case Studies Capstone Workshop Economics and Quantitative Analysis Physical Dimensions of Sustainability Public Policy and Sustainability General and Financial Management Accelerated Program Students Student Resources Orientation Courses and Registration Admitted Student Resources Faculty Advisor Bios Student Community Prospective Students Alumni Careers Certifications Sustainability Analytics Sustainable Finance (On-campus & Online) Sustainable Water Management More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. ▼ IMPORTANT DATES CERTIFICATION OF PROFESSIONAL ACHIEVEMENT IN SUSTAINABILITY ANALYTICS Columbia University in the City of New York offers the world’s foremost graduate degree programs in applied sustainability studies. The Certification in Sustainability Analytics addresses the need to train professionals in quantitative and technical skills central to the practice of sustainability. The management adage “What Gets Measured Gets Done” is particularly true as it relates to the implementation of sustainability initiatives. The Certification in Sustainability Analytics trains professionals to develop skills in analytic methods and quantitative analysis that enable practitioners to measure, report, and communicate the sustainability of organizations, products, and services. Upon completion of this program, students will possess the knowledge and tools to track sustainability indicators, analyze and interpret data, and report upon the findings to industry, nonprofit, and government decision makers. The certification focuses on key topics in accounting, metrics and indices, monitoring procedures, and reporting. Students who complete the certification will have a strong framework that can be used to benchmark performance and develop future sustainability initiatives. The Certification may be taken as a complement to other graduate degree programs, including the Master of Science in Sustainability Management, or it can be taken as a stand-alone program. FACULTY Instructors include world-class sustainability experts and practitioners with experience at leading companies and public organizations, including the World Bank, the City of New York, the Port Authority of NY & NJ, the Wildlife Conservation Society, The New York Times, Accenture, Bloomberg Associates, Goldman Sachs, White & Case LLP, Heineken USA, Colgate-Palmolive, and the United Nations Development Programme. STUDENTS The Certification in Sustainability Analytics is ideal for sustainability professionals in the New York City metropolitan region. It is applicable across a variety of industries, including: financial services, construction, utilities, energy, industrial manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, media, food service, transportation, and technology, among others. CURRICULUM The Certification in Sustainability Analytics requires the successful completion of four courses or 12 points. Students enrolled on a part-time basis can complete the certification requirements in as many as four semesters. Students enrolled on a full-time basis can complete the certification requirements in one semester. Students choose four 3-point courses, including the following course offerings: Cost Benefit Analysis GHG Emissions: Measuring and Minimizing the Carbon Footprint Decision Models and Management Statistics for Sustainability Management Sustainability Metrics Geographic Information Systems (GIS) for Sustainability Management Corporate Sustainability Reporting and Strategy Solar Project Development Consumerism and Sustainability Environmental Infrastructure for Sustainable Cities Sustainable Entrepreneurship COMMUNITY Certification students are members of Columbia University’s Earth Institute and the School of Professional Studies communities. The Earth Institute is affiliated with more than 30 academic programs at Columbia University and has developed numerous innovative courses that train students to understand and address the pressing and complex issues of environmental protection and sustainability. The Earth Institute is conducting and applying interdisciplinary scientific research to address many crosscutting issues, while training a new generation of problem solvers to tackle these issues in all areas of society. Certification students are an integral part of a growing network of emerging sustainability professionals and are encouraged to take advantage of all University and co-curricular events and resources. The certification focuses on key topics in accounting, metrics and indices, monitoring procedures, and reporting. Students who complete the certification will have a strong framework that can be used to benchmark performance and develop future sustainability initiatives. TO APPLY Application Type: Master's Affiliated CPA Program Application Deadlines Spring enrollment: November 1st Fall enrollment: May 15th Need help applying? Click here. CONTACT US Notice on Campus Visits In light of the evolving Covid-19 situation and the University’s guidelines for on-campus activity, Columbia University SPS Admissions has suspended all in-person campus visits. Admissions Counselors can connect you directly to students, alumni, faculty, and facilitate virtual class visits. You can also register for an information session. Our virtual events allow you to interact with our admissions staff and learn more about the Columbia SPS community. If you have any questions, please contact our office at inquire@sps.columbia.edu or 212-854-9666. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Management program, including admissions details, please contact us. Campus Visits, Graduate School Fairs & Company Presentations We are eager to host you on the Columbia University campus or to meet you at one of our information sessions. Our program offers a part-time option for working professionals. If your company would like to host an information session, please contact us. For more information about the graduate school fairs that we attend throughout the United States, please contact Chandler Precht, Associate Director at cprecht@ei.columbia.edu. Program Contacts For all student inquiries and DEI contact: John E. Williams, Ph.D. Associate Director, Student Affairs jew2159@columbia.edu For program administration and faculty contact: Maria Gray Director mlg17@columbia.edu For media and recruitment inquiries contact: Chandler Precht Associate Director, External Affairs and Communications cip2113@columbia.edu Office of Admissions School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 212-854-9666 sustainability@sps.columbia.edu IMPORTANT DATES APPLICATION DEADLINES Fall 2022: May 15, 2022 Spring 2023: November 1, 2022 For more information about the HBCU Fellowship, please visit this website or contact hbcu-fellowship@sps.columbia.edu. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Management program, please submit your contact information below. Submit Thanks for submitting!