Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Visiting Students Visiting Students Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Visiting Students Undergraduate Visiting Student Program Overview Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Policies Graduate Visiting Student Program Overview Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Policies High School Students University Courses Events Key To Course Listings Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Admitted Students Overview Enrollment Next Steps Registration Instructions Housing and University Resources Contact Visiting Students Whether you’re seeking to take a deep dive into an area of interest or incorporate a cross-disciplinary perspective into your studies, the Visiting Students program offers students enrolled in a degree program at another institution the specialized, world-class instruction that you would expect in the Ivy League. Visiting students are enrolled alongside matriculated Columbia degree students, and earn credits that may be used towards graduation at your home institution. As a student in the Visiting Student Program you will work with an advisor to create a customized schedule to reflect your individual academic and career goals from a selection of the 3,000+ University undergraduate and graduate courses available to you. If you are looking for a more structured curriculum you may apply to one of our structured programs open to visiting students. All visiting students have access to Columbia resources, including the libraries, writing center, academic advisors, fitness center, and student services. Learn more here. Visiting students may enroll during the fall, spring, and summer semesters. Students interested in studying in the summer may do so for either six or 12 weeks and should visit our summer website for program options. If you are a current high school student, you can kickstart your college education and experience Columbia University in the City of New York through our rigorous pre-college academic programs. High school students from all grades are encouraged to apply. To request information about or to apply to a program, visit the Programs for High School Students website. Tailor Your Experience Work with an admissions counselor to create a program of study aligned with your goals. 100 Learn from Columbia's world-renowned faculty in 100 subject areas. 3,000 Choose from more than 3,000 courses. You are in the middle of New York City, but when you are on campus, it feels like another place. It feels like home instantly. Catarina Guimarães de Mello — Columbia student from Brazil Program Options Program Option Required Experience Time Committment Visiting Graduate Students Currently enrolled in a master’s degree program at another university and in good academic standing TOEFL IBT score of 100+, 7+ on the IELTS Academic or DET Duolingo English Test score of 120+ required A maximum of two terms plus Summer sessions Continuation into the second term is contingent on successful completion of the first Visiting Undergraduate Students Currently enrolled in a bachelor’s degree program at another college or university and in good academic standing TOEFL IBT score of 100+, 7+ on the IELTS Academic or DET Duolingo English Test score of 120+ required A maximum of two terms plus Summer sessions Continuation into the second term is contingent on successful completion of the first High School Students Students in grades 9-12 and recent high school graduates Eligibility varies by program Ranges from one week to one academic year, depending on the program Summer Session Currently enrolled in a master’s or bachelor’s degree program at another college or university and in good academic standing TOEFL IBT score of 100+, 7+ on the IELTS Academic or DET Duolingo English Test score of 120+ required Six or 12 weeks of study Featured Students & Alumni New Career Design Workshop for Visiting Students to Launch This Summer The Columbia University Summer Session will launch the Career Design Workshop in 2022. School Columbia University Summer Session: Registration Opens March 1 Hundreds of courses are confirmed for the 2022 Summer Session, including Money & Banking, Biodiversity, and How to Write Funny. Faculty Dr. Elisheva Carlebach: Knowledge and Access to It Has Always Been Political Dr. Elisheva Carlebach will instruct Censorship & Freedom of Expression in Early Modern Europe, May 3 - June 14, 2021. Upcoming Events View All Events Jun 8 Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting 5:30 pm EDT Online Info Session Jul 12 Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting 5:30 pm EDT Online Info Session View All Events Related Programs View All Programs Graduate Preparation Postbaccalaureate Studies Achieve your academic goals as part of Columbia University's community Program Options Online, On Campus, Hybrid Full-time, Part-time View All Programs Connect with Us Learn more about Visiting Students at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program advisor. Request more information Academic Year Study Advisor info@sps.columbia.edu Summer Study Advisor summersessions@columbia.edu Application Questions 212-854-9666 apply@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy