Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Toggle sidebar menu visibility Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program The mission of the Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program is to prepare talented, high-performing HBCU graduates to lead, innovate, drive community impact, and advance their professional industries through program engagement, mentorship, and career development opportunities. Now Accepting Nominations Nominations for applicants are open through October 4, 2021. Nominate a Student Stay in the know with updates about the Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program sent straight to your inbox. Sign Up for Updates Vision The vision of the Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program is to: equip HBCU graduates with the academic and cultural competencies to navigate their respective industries while also empowering them to be change-makers; build on the intellectual excellence and supportive community at the School of Professional Studies by enrolling cohorts of Columbia HBCU Fellows from diverse backgrounds who are dedicated to academic merit and community engagement; invest in high-touch mentorship, networking opportunities, and professional development, in order to position Columbia HBCU Fellows as competitive candidates with the ability to make lasting contributions and impact in their careers as well as their local and global communities; provide access to the greater Columbia University network, and create a rich alumni base committed to furthering the legacy of HBCUs and expanding the reach and impact of the Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program; and encourage Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program alumni to uplift, support, and mentor current and future Fellows through continued engagement, community building, and professional relationships. Eligible Degree Programs Actuarial Science » Applied Analytics » Bioethics » Construction Administration » Enterprise Risk Management » Human Capital Management » Narrative Medicine » Negotiation and Conflict Resolution » Nonprofit Management » Sports Management » Strategic Communication » Sustainability Management » Sustainability Science » Technology Management » Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Benefits Full tuition On-campus housing Community engagement and programming Stipend Access to 310,000+ member global Columbia alumni network Application Timeline More information will be available soon! Sign Up for Updates Qualifications To be eligible, students must meet the following qualifications. Current HBCU senior or recent graduate (Bachelor’s degree requirements completed Fall 2020 or later) Master’s Program Application Requirements Please visit the website for your program of choice and carefully read the Application Requirements for the program. Each program has a unique prompt for the statement of academic purpose and supplemental essay (where applicable), and other requirements, such as the need to provide standardized test scores, may also differ. Meet Our Fellows 2021 Fellows 2020 Fellows 2019 Fellows 2018 Fellows 2017 Fellows Featured Students & Alumni Student Columbia HBCU Fellows "Take Over" Instagram Starting February 11 Fellows will provide candid glimpses into their experiences at Columbia University and share advice for prospective students. Alumni Damian James Murray, ’21SPS, Technology Management, Named a Schwarzman Scholar The scholarship funds a one-year master’s degree in global affairs at Tsinghua University in Beijing. Alumni Bioethics Alumna Shami-Iyabo Mitchell Considers Six Medical School Acceptances "The Columbia Bioethics program gives students broad exposure to law, medicine, research, and philosophy." Contact Us Questions Regarding Admission All HBCU students are welcome to apply. For more information about admission, please contact Olivia Austin, Admissions Counselor or Naima d'Ennery Dejoie, Admissions Specialist: hbcu-fellowship [[at]] sps [[dot]] columbia [[dot]] edu Educational Institutions and Organizations Interested in Getting Involved Please contact Imani McDonald-Isles, Executive Assistant, Office of the Dean at hbcu-fellowship [[at]] sps [[dot]] columbia [[dot]] edu. Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from unlawful discrimination. Read the full Columbia University Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy >> Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy