Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Human Capital Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Human Capital Management Faculty Student Testimonials Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Video About the Program Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Video About the Program Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Career Tips Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Human Capital Management Drive organizational excellence in the new world of work. Apply Now Human Capital Management Faculty Student Testimonials Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Video About the Program Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Video About the Program Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Career Tips Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Twitter Listen to our Podcast Search terms Organizations that view human resources as merely business-serving are rapidly falling behind in the global marketplace. Now more than ever, organizations need innovative, business-driving strategies that address human capital challenges through data-driven, market-based insights and organization-wide integrated solutions. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Human Capital Management (HCM) prepares graduates to be world-class HCM strategists able to address changing needs in building and motivating talented, engaged workforces in the private, public, academic and not-for-profit sectors. Graduates are prepared to advance their careers while driving organizational excellence in the new world of work. Career Outcomes Show Description According to a recent survey of all program participants, 83% of HCM alumni were promoted or changed roles since the start of the program.* *as of February 2022 Key Highlights 55% of respondents believe that HR will substantially or radically change within the next 12 to 18 months.* Focus The next horizon for Human Capital is to transition from a myopic, siloed, process-focused perspective to (one) where all experiences along the way receive equal attention.** 2.6× High-performing organizations are more likely to treat data and analytics as core assets.** *Deloitte Human Capital Management Trends Survey, 2021 **The Conference Board, 2021 Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Information Sessions Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Program Options Program Option Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) On-campus or Online 3 terms Capstone Seminar Master of Science (part‑time) On-campus or Online Up to 6 terms Capstone Seminar Application Process Student & Alumni Testimonials Events On-Demand Info Session In the News Student Q&A with Human Capital Management Student Lavar Matthews Matthews talks about the importance of passing the torch of inclusivity and diversity to future generations. Faculty Dr. Ash Buonasera, HR Leader at Principal Financial Group, Shares Industry Insights Dr. Ash Buonasera is Director of Analysis at Principal Financial Group. Alumni Implementing Classroom Learnings in Daily Work: Ramona Garcia Columbia’s HCM program fortified Ramona with additional competencies that she finds useful day-to-day at S&P Global. From the Blog Members of the Organization and People Practice at West Monroe Partners Join Angela Finlay's Finance for Effective Human Capital Management Class Jeff Cox, David Hilborn, and David Watschke discuss HCM due diligence and post-merger integration. Organizational Culture and Leadership Expert, Jesse Price, joins Louis Scenti's Introduction to Human Capital Management Class Price shares his experiences developing high-performing boards, organizations, teams and leaders. Matt Maher, Managing Director at Mitsui & Co., Joins Angela Finlay's Finance for Effective Human Capital Management Class Maher shares his insights on the key HCM matters that drive value in transactions. Upcoming Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 23 Career Design Lab Spotlight: Gain insights into career services provided to Human Capital Management graduate students. 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session View All Events Connect with Us Learn more about the Master of Science in Human Capital Management at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Human Capital Management Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 HCM@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy