Apply now MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Home About Overview Information Sessions Accelerated Program Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Us Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financing International Students Admission FAQs Curriculum Integrative Sustainability Management Case Studies Capstone Workshop Economics and Quantitative Analysis Physical Dimensions of Sustainability Public Policy and Sustainability General and Financial Management Accelerated Program Students Student Resources Orientation Courses and Registration Admitted Student Resources Faculty Advisor Bios Student Community Prospective Students Alumni Careers Certifications Sustainability Analytics Sustainable Finance (On-campus & Online) Sustainable Water Management More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. ▼ IMPORTANT DATES CERTIFICATION OF PROFESSIONAL ACHIEVEMENT IN SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT Columbia University in the City of New York offers the world’s foremost graduate degree programs in applied sustainability studies. The certification focuses on the science, policy, and economics of sustainable water management. Students who complete the certification will be able to develop and manage reliable water supplies given diverse sources and variability in climate and water quality. This certification equips professionals with the skills to conduct integrated water management and water systems analysis. These professionals – ranging from urban planners for local governments to operations managers for large supply chains, to NGO staff focused on issues of health in developing communities – need new skills to create effective solutions to the world’s water problems. According to the United Nations Development Programme, just under 900 million people lack access to safe water and over 2.7 billion lack access to basic sanitation. As the world’s population continues to grow, the demand for access to water is rising. At the same time, the impacts of climate change are making it more difficult to ensure the supply of safe water to the populations that need it most. The Sustainable Water Management Certification addresses concepts of hydrology, water policy and regulation, economics, finance and conflict resolution. The program is designed to provide sophisticated and multidisciplinary training in water issues – the nexus of natural science, social science and public policy. Students will learn the science of the hydrological cycle; best practices in water systems management; the economics of water; how large-scale water projects are financed; how water is allocated and the principles of water rights, access and privatization. Students will also learn how to develop reliable water supplies given diverse sources and variability in climate and water quality. The Certification may be taken as a complement to other graduate degree programs, including the Master of Science in Sustainability Management, or it can be taken as a stand-alone program. FACULTY Dr. Upmanu Lall, a leading expert on hydroclimatology, climate change adaptation, risk analysis and mitigation, directs the program. Course instructors include both expert faculty and leading practitioners in the fields of hydrology, environmental management, economics, and water policy. STUDENTS The Sustainable Water Management Certification is designed for a broad range of professionals whose careers involve water-related issues. The certification is applicable to a variety of fields and industries, including financial services, government, international development, manufacturing, risk management, supply chain management and utilities. CURRICULUM The Certification in Sustainability Analytics requires the successful completion of four courses or 12 points. All courses are offered in the evening to accommodate the schedules of students working full-time. The certification is available through part-time enrollment. Students enrolled on a part-time basis can complete the certification in as few as two or as many as four semesters. Students choose four 3-point courses, including the following course offerings: Water Governance: The course provides an overview of the political, social, economic, and administrative systems that affect the use, development, and management of water resources, including sustainable development, integrated water resource management, water rights and pricing, corruption, and equity for marginal groups. Water Systems Analysis: This course offers an analytic framework for operating, managing, and planning water systems, considering changing climate, values, and needs. Science of Sustainable Water: This course provides students with a fundamental understanding of key hydrological processes. Students will then use this understanding to explore various sustainable strategies for integrated water resources management. Elective Courses: Subjects include but are not limited to: science of sustainable water, planning and finance for hydrologic systems, environmental data analysis, climate-water hazards, water quality, and water security, environmental engineering COMMUNITY Certification students are members of the Earth Institute and the School of Professional Studies communities. The Earth Institute is affiliated with more than 30 academic programs at Columbia University and has 30 research centers and programs — including the Columbia Water Center — which conduct and apply interdisciplinary scientific research to address cross-cutting issues associated with sustainable development. The Columbia Water Center focuses on the assessment, understanding and resolution of the global crisis of freshwater scarcity. The Center’s mission is to tackle the issue of global water scarcity through innovations in technology, public policy and private action. The Center designs reliable, sustainable models of water management and development that can be implemented on local, regional and global levels. Certification students are an integral part of a growing network of emerging sustainability professionals and are encouraged to take advantage of all university and Earth Institute co-curricular events and resources. TO APPLY Application Type: Master's Affiliated CPA Program Application Deadlines Spring enrollment: November 1st Fall enrollment: May 15th Need help applying? Click here. CONTACT US Notice on Campus Visits In light of the evolving Covid-19 situation and the University’s guidelines for on-campus activity, Columbia University SPS Admissions has suspended all in-person campus visits. Admissions Counselors can connect you directly to students, alumni, faculty, and facilitate virtual class visits. You can also register for an information session. Our virtual events allow you to interact with our admissions staff and learn more about the Columbia SPS community. If you have any questions, please contact our office at inquire@sps.columbia.edu or 212-854-9666. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Management program, including admissions details, please contact us. Campus Visits, Graduate School Fairs & Company Presentations We are eager to host you on the Columbia University campus or to meet you at one of our information sessions. Our program offers a part-time option for working professionals. If your company would like to host an information session, please contact us. For more information about the graduate school fairs that we attend throughout the United States, please contact Chandler Precht, Associate Director at cprecht@ei.columbia.edu. Program Contacts For all student inquiries and DEI contact: John E. Williams, Ph.D. Associate Director, Student Affairs jew2159@columbia.edu For program administration and faculty contact: Maria Gray Director mlg17@columbia.edu For media and recruitment inquiries contact: Chandler Precht Associate Director, External Affairs and Communications cip2113@columbia.edu Office of Admissions School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 212-854-9666 sustainability@sps.columbia.edu IMPORTANT DATES APPLICATION DEADLINES Fall 2022: May 15, 2022 Spring 2023: November 1, 2022 For more information about the HBCU Fellowship, please visit this website or contact hbcu-fellowship@sps.columbia.edu. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Management program, please submit your contact information below. Submit Thanks for submitting!