Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics english language programs English Language Programs American Language Program Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information English Language Programs American Language Program Overview Intensive English Program Overview Intensive Academic English Program Advanced Academic Preparation (Summer) Online English Courses Part-Time English Courses Overview Academic Writing Listening and Speaking Pronunciation Business English Course Winter Cultural Course Apply to the ALP Overview Apply for your Visa Levels, Testing, Placement and Promotion Overview Levels Testing Placement Promotion Student Resources Overview Advising Dining Health Information Housing Language Exchange Program Policies Student Life Withdrawal About the ALP Overview Accreditation How We Teach Our Mission Faculty and Staff Special Admission Courses for Columbia Students Overview Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students Advanced Academic Writing for International Students (GS) Advanced English for MA Thesis Writing English for Advanced Legal Study English for Professional Purposes: International and Public Affairs English for SIPA (U6950) International Teachers Fellows Testing & Training Student Visa & Immigration Information Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Secondary Breadcrumbs English Language Programs Academic Writing This course helps students whose first language is not English develop their academic writing skills. The course covers: Essay structure Rhetoric Grammatical accuracy Paraphrasing Citing sources Critical thinking Editing and revising work The course is thematic: you will explore different topics and themes (current affairs, social issues, etc.) by reading, listening, and discussing material, and then write essays about that material. The instructors will provide extensive feedback to help you edit and revise your own writing. 6 points / 0 credits. Meets mornings or evenings three times per week. Open only to students in ALP level 7 or higher. All new applicants must take the ALP's online placement test before admission. Dates and Prices Tuition and fees are subject to Board of Trustee approval and may change. For a full explanation of fees, see below. Expand All Fall 2022 Application Deadline: August 2 (but spaces may be available after this time. Email alp [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu Class Days & Hours: Mon/Tues/Thurs 9:10–11:25 a.m. Course Dates: September 6 – December 12 OR Class Days & Hours: Mon/Wed/Thurs 6:10–8:25 p.m. Course Dates: September 7 – December 12 Tuition and Fees Fee Cost Tuition $5,532 Health Insurance $1,483 Health & Related Services Fee $623 Activity Fee $50 Instructional Support Fee $30 Technology Fee $35 Textbooks $60 Total $7,813 Spring 2023 Application Deadline: December 6 (but spaces may be available after this time. Email alp [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu) Class Days & Hours: Mon/Tues/Thurs 9:10–11:25 a.m. ET Course Dates: January 17–May 1 OR Class Days & Hours: Mon/Wed/Thurs 6:10–8:25 p.m. Course Dates: January 18–May 1 Tuition and Fees Fee Cost Tuition $5,532 Health Insurance $2,409 Health & Related Services Fee $623 Activity Fee $50 Instructional Support Fee $45 Technology Fee $35 Textbooks $60 Total $8,754 Explanation of Part-Time Fees* Important note: All part-time students studying in Fall and Spring are required to have Columbia Health Insurance and pay the Health and Related Services Fee. See below for details. Medical Insurance: All part-time ALP students studying the Fall and Spring are required to have Columbia Medical Insurance, Those with comparable U.S. health insurance may submit a waiver request to avoid the health insurance charge. Visit the Columbia Health website for complete information. Health and Related Services Fee: All ALP students are required to pay the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee.. This fee covers access to Columbia health services such as medical, counseling, wellbeing, sexual violence response and disability services. For online courses this includes phone/video appointments, accommodations for approved disabilities and access to workshops and training. The Health and Related Services fee is mandatory, even if students successfully apply for a health insurance waiver. SPS Activity Fee: this covers SPS expenses relating to orientation, handbooks and events. Instructional Support Fee: this covers class materials and expenses such as playbooks, novels, newspapers, photocopying. Technology Fee: this covers SPS technology expenses, including access to online course management software, Canvas, and tools used to develop online course content. Textbooks: this is an estimate. Instructors may assign books at the beginning of the session and students must buy them. Students are not billed for textbooks. *Note: not all fees are refundable if students withdraw from the course. For a full explanation see the Withdrawal and Tuition Refund page of the ALP website. Application Materials Completed online application form. Nonrefundable application fee: U.S. $150.00 for online applications, payable by credit card only. No application will be processed without this fee. Matriculated Columbia Students: there is no application fee for Matriculated Columbia Students. Part-time courses do not qualify you for a student visa. If you are currently living outside the U.S., you must have a student visa to enroll in the ALP. In order to qualify for the student visa, you must enroll in a full-time program (18 hours or more per week). The tuition and fees quoted are for ALP registrants only. Those students registering through other divisions of Columbia will pay at the per-point rate of their home schools. ALP points/credits information: ALP is a non-degree, non-credit program. ALP classes and programs use points to bill students, not credits. See above for the number of points the class bills. ALP Levels, Placement & Testing Find out about our levels Learn more Connect with Us Learn more about American Language Program at Columbia University, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Joel Chaffee, Assistant Director of ALP Admissions 212-854-3584 alp@sps.columbia.edu Apply to the American Language Program Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy