Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Applied Analytics Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Applied Analytics Faculty Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Applied Analytics Master of Science Apply Now Applied Analytics Faculty Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Search terms Using analytics to make a difference. Rapid innovation in data collection and processing technologies requires organizations to find professionals who can use data to deliver insights through analytics. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Applied Analytics prepares students with the practical data and leadership skills to succeed. The program combines in-depth knowledge of data analytics with the leadership, management, and communication principles and tactics necessary to impact decision-making at all levels within organizations. Learn more about the program in the Applied Analytics Fact Sheet. Download the Fact Sheet Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Information Sessions Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Program Options Program Options Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) Ability to demonstrate critical thinking and leadership skills On-campus* 3 consecutive terms Full-time Master of Science (part‑time) Ability to demonstrate critical thinking and leadership skills On-campus* or Online** 6 consecutive terms *Students registered in an on-campus option may participate in on-campus and online courses. **Students registered in the online option may participate only in online courses. M.S. Application Requirements M.S. Application Deadlines Testimonials Information Sessions & Events All Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session All Events Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni All Impact Stories Faculty The Real-World Impact of Analytics on Medicine, Global Health, and Health-Care Disparities Dr. Aaron Foster shares how he has harnessed his passion for mathematics and used data analytics to change health care. Alumni International Students Should Embrace What Makes Them Different and Always Reach Out for Help, says Alumna Jiaying (Claire) Wu "The worst thing to do is trying to do everything by yourself. Reach out as much as possible." Alumni How Alumna Moshmi Sanagavarapu Transitioned Her Career in Analytics Strategy from India to the U.S. "Once you get the acceptance letter, you should focus on.. understanding all of the resources that the university has to offer." All Impact Stories In the News All News Student From a War Zone to Safety: How Applied Analytics Student Anna Ustin Evacuated Her Family from Ukraine Anna quickly realized that she needed to take action to get her family members out of harm’s way. Faculty Applied Analytics Lecturer Diahanna Post Wins Prestigious 2022 Arthur C. Nielsen Award Post and her team were recognized for their work recuperating television and streaming channels to a pre-pandemic model. School Building Camaraderie Among Students During a Unique Academic Year The outgoing student government president worked with fellow student leaders to organize on-campus & virtual student activities. All News Connect with Us Learn more about Applied Analytics at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 appliedanalytics@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy