Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Impact Youth in STEM Columbia Youth in STEM Initiative Toggle sidebar menu visibility Play Columbia Youth in STEM Initiative Launched by Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies, with support from corporate partners and community organizations, the Columbia Youth in STEM initiative addresses the persistent gender and diversification gap across science, technology, engineering, and math fields. It prepares students from underrepresented populations to enter college and the workplace with increased confidence and capabilities. Mission: Prepare high school students from typically underrepresented populations for STEM studies in college, in collaboration with industry leaders nationwide. Vision: Build a talent pipeline to address the persistent gender and diversification gap across STEM fields, and ensure greater access to and success in STEM education and careers. Our Approach Engage students from underrepresented populations through hands-on instruction in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), while developing their leadership and communications skills. Support participating students with mentoring, special events, and other resources as they prepare for college and career. Build a community of lifelong connections. Our History In 2016, Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies and Dean Jason Wingard launched the Columbia Girls in STEM Initiative to improve STEM education to bridge the gender gap, particularly to better serve minority women. SPS, along with corporate partners and community organizations, piloted programs in STEM education for girls from underrepresented populations in three cities: San Francisco, Miami, and New York. High school students learned core competencies in the STEM fields, developed leadership skills, and established mentoring relationships with senior female executives. The initial curriculum advisory committee included James Applegate, Ph.D., Professor of Astronomy; Rachel Austin, Ph.D., Vagelos Professor of Chemistry; Rita Charon, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Clinical Medicine; Jeanini D’Armiento, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medicine; Dana Pe’er, Ph.D.; Associate Professor of Biological Sciences; and Sharyn O’Halloran, Ph.D., George Blumenthal Professor of Political Economics and Professor of International and Public Affairs. In 2017, the program expanded to four cities—in Washington, D.C., with National Geographic; in New York City with Goldman Sachs; in San Francisco with Microsoft; and in Miami with the Miami Dolphins (NFL)—with approximately 20 girls in each cohort. During the summer of 2020, the program pivoted online and held a three-day virtual symposium, “Engineering Hope and the Future.” In 2021, SPS changed the program name to the Columbia Youth in STEM Initiative to be more inclusive and align with the School’s Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) Initiative. Program Highlights As a program participant, you will: Learn from scholars and practitioners who are experts in their fields. Build a community of lifelong connections. Participate in world-class cocurricular activities. Differentiate yourself with a Columbia Certification of Participation and personalized evaluation letter. This highly selective program is open to academically exceptional high school students, grades 10 to 12. Program Requirements Local NYC students Rising high school sophomores, juniors, and seniors Underrepresented in STEM fields Nominated by a high school administrator or nonprofit organization Must attend mandatory end-of-program residency Hear from Partners and Participants Play [The students had] never realized that there were so many opportunities and so many women in this field. Elizabeth Byrnes, Goldman Sachs Play It's really great to learn that there are so many powerful women and it's really inspiring—it makes me feel like I can do that, too. Gizelle T., Girls in STEM participant Featured Students, Sponsors & Alumni Office of the Dean Elena Sotolongo: ’16 Girls in STEM alumna codes her way to undergrad experience at the Columbia School of Engineering and Applied Science In 2016, Elena Sotolongo was part of the Columbia Girls in STEM initiative. Today, she's majors in Computer Science at Columbia. Office of the Dean Microsoft’s Melinda Anderson Reflects on Five Years of the Columbia Girls in STEM Initiative in San Francisco Every year, Melinda Anderson shepherds the Columbia Girls in STEM program in San Francisco. Here's what she has learned. Office of the Dean Mentorship Forged Through the Columbia Girls In STEM Initiative Lasts Well Beyond a Week in the Summer Last summer, rising Ashley Onumonu joined the Columbia Girls in STEM week in Washington D.C. and gained a mentor for a lifetime. Initiative Presenters 2022 Presenters Goldman Sachs Google NASA National Geographic Women Who Drone 2020 Presenters Edge of Yesterday Goldman Sachs Microsoft National Geographic 2019 Presenters AT&T Edge of Yesterday Goldman Sachs Miami Dolphins Microsoft NASA National Geographic New York Yankees Seizing Every Opportunity (SEO) Tesla 2018 Presenters Bureau Veritas Goldman Sachs Miami Dolphins Microsoft National Geographic WynCode 2017 Presenters Brooks Brothers Goldman Sachs Johnson & Johnson Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Miami Dolphins Microsoft NASCAR National Geographic 2016 Presenters Goldman Sachs GoPro Miami Dolphins Microsoft National Geographic Contact Us Questions Regarding Admission For questions concerning admissions requirements, please contact youthinstem [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu How Educational Institutions and Organizations Can Support the Program Please contact Vanessa Carrillo, Associate Director, Pre-College Programs at youthinstem [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu. Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from unlawful discrimination. Read the full Columbia University Nondiscrimination Statement and Policy. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy