Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Admissions Columbia University Employees Columbia University Employees Columbia University Employees There are many options for Columbia University employees to study through the School of Professional Studies, from taking classes in the Arts and Sciences, to pursuing a certification or preparing for graduate school within the Postbaccalaureate Studies program, to the rigorous curriculum of our professional master’s degree programs. Most of our programs are structured for working individuals, with most classes offered in the evenings. University Faculty and Officers of Research University Faculty and Officers of Research at Columbia are eligible to apply for a variety of academic programs through the School of Professional Studies. Expand All Take a Class The Postbaccalaureate Studies program offers you the opportunity to take a course or courses. Faculty and Research Officers of the University will complete an abbreviated application consisting of contact and citizenship information. You will also be required to provide Proof of Eligibility (e.g. a letter from Human Resources verifying your Faculty/Research Officer status). Evening courses are available in many of the departments in the Arts and Sciences. Visit our Fall/Spring courses or Summer courses pages for detailed course information. Applying Your Tuition Benefit For information regarding the next steps for applying your tuition benefit please visit the University human resources website. Please note that student and University fees are not covered by the tuition benefit and will be assessed to your student account during the next billing cycle. For more information about these fees, click here. Apply Now Certification and Master’s Degree Programs The School of Professional Studies offers Certification of Professional Achievement and Master of Science degree programs, most of which are designed to accommodate the scheduling needs of working professionals. Employees are held to the same academic standards as matriculated students at the University, and are required to follow the calendars, admissions requirements, and administrative policies posted throughout this website. Information regarding the tuition benefit can be found by visiting: Faculty and Staff Services 615 West 131st Street Studebaker Floor 4 New York, NY 10027 212-851-7000 Human Resources Tuition exemption forms are available in 205 Kent and 615 West 131st Street. Other Officers and Support Staff Officers and support staff at Columbia who hold a bachelor's degree are eligible to apply for a variety of academic programs through the School of Professional Studies. Expand All Options for Employees with a Bachelor's Degree Employees are held to the same academic standards as matriculated students at the University, and are required to follow the calendars, admissions requirements, and administrative policies posted throughout this website. Take a Class The Postbaccalaureate Studies program offers employees the opportunity to take a course or courses for graduate school preparation, professional advancement, or personal enrichment. Evening courses are available in many of the departments in the Arts and Sciences. Visit our Fall/Spring courses or Summer courses pages for detailed course information. Master's Degrees With a diverse portfolio of master’s degrees and a variety of flexible courses and formats, our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go — on their terms and throughout their lives. Most are designed to accommodate the scheduling needs of working professionals. View Master's Program's Certificate and Certifications of Professional Achievement Gain leading-edge insights or prepare for advanced study. View Certificates and Certifications Applying Your Tuition Benefit Upon submission of your registration form the School of Professional Studies will create a student record for you and you will be registered for the designated courses. For information regarding the next steps for applying your tuition benefit please visit the University human resources website. Please note that student and University fees are not covered by the tuition benefit and will be assessed to your student account during the next billing cycle. For more information about these fees, click here. Information regarding the tuition benefit can be found by visiting: Faculty and Staff Services 615 West 131st Street Studebaker Floor 4 New York, NY 10027 212-851-7000 Human Resources Tuition exemption forms are available in 205 Kent and 615 West 131st Street. Options for Employees without a Bachelor’s Degree Pursue a bachelor’s degree at Columbia Individuals who do not hold a bachelor’s degree should contact the School of General Studies to find out about applying for admission to an undergraduate degree program at Columbia. Audit a class or classes Individuals interested in sitting in on selected courses in the Arts and Sciences may apply to audit a class or classes. Employees should note that tuition exemption does not cover audited courses. For more information regarding tuition benefits please visit the University’s Human Resources website. Auditing Tuition Exemption Columbia University offers a Tuition Exemption Benefit Program for both full-time, regular salaried Officers as well as Support Staff, so that you and your eligible dependents may take courses at Columbia. Tuition Exemption Steps Check your eligibility: To find out what your Tuition Exemption Benefit covers, log-into CUBES and click the Tuition icon at the top of the screen. For more information, and the Tuition Exemption Benefits Policy, please visit humanresources.columbia.edu/tuition. Submit your application: A School of Professional Studies program application is required, and you must be admitted into the program in order to register for courses. If you are applying for the Spring semester, please submit your application as soon as possible to receive early consideration, as many courses have limited space. Register: Instructions on how to register for courses will be sent upon admission to the program. Submit your eligibility form: In order for your Tuition Exemption Benefit to be applied to your student account, you must present a signed Tuition Exemption Eligibility Form each term to the Student Financial Services office at your school before the end of the Change of Program Period. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy