Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics english language programs English Language Programs American Language Program Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information English Language Programs American Language Program Overview Intensive English Program Overview Intensive Academic English Program Advanced Academic Preparation (Summer) Online English Courses Part-Time English Courses Overview Academic Writing Listening and Speaking Pronunciation Business English Course Winter Cultural Course Apply to the ALP Overview Apply for your Visa Levels, Testing, Placement and Promotion Overview Levels Testing Placement Promotion Student Resources Overview Advising Dining Health Information Housing Language Exchange Program Policies Student Life Withdrawal About the ALP Overview Accreditation How We Teach Our Mission Faculty and Staff Special Admission Courses for Columbia Students Overview Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students Advanced Academic Writing for International Students (GS) Advanced English for MA Thesis Writing English for Advanced Legal Study English for Professional Purposes: International and Public Affairs English for SIPA (U6950) International Teachers Fellows Testing & Training Student Visa & Immigration Information Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Secondary Breadcrumbs English Language Programs English for Advanced Legal Study Available in Summer This four-week intensive program has been designed in collaboration with Columbia Law School (CLS) and is intended to prepare international LL.M candidates entering CLS in the Fall for the demands of their graduate coursework. This course will address all language skills, with emphasis on spoken interaction and basic legal vocabulary. Students will learn to speak more fluently, accurately, and intelligibly and thus be better equipped to participate actively and skillfully in their law school seminar classes and group projects. The Program will Include: Multi-skill language instruction in a legal context Lectures by legal professionals and/or law professors Private meetings with judges and/or assistant district attorneys Participants Will: Participate actively in discussions, debates, & simulations Deliver impromptu speeches and prepared presentations on legal matters Learn common legal vocabulary and collocations as well as key legal concepts Practice the IRAC method of academic legal writing Learn American email etiquette Take notes on law-themed lectures and talks Receive extensive feedback on their oral and written skills Become familiar with common law school practices such as cold calling Blog posts from former participants of EPP: Law Rachel, from the Dominican Republic, and Marlene, from Mexico both took EPP: Law in 2018 and wrote blog posts describing their experiences. Click below for an inside perspective on what it's like to take the course. Rachel's post Marlene's post If you have questions about this course please email: alp [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu Requirements The program is open only to incoming LL.M. students at Columbia Law School. Priority will be given to those students who are required to take the course. If space is available, other CLS LL.M. students may choose to take the course. Dates and Prices Tuition and fees are subject to Board of Trustee approval and may change. For a full explanation of fees, see below. Summer 2022 (July 18 - August 12) Application Deadline: June 19 Course Dates: July 18 – August 12 Tuition and Fees Fee Cost Tuition $5071 Activity Fee $50 Instructional Support Fee $45 ALP Student Services Fee $20 Technology Fee $35 Health & Related Services Fee $135 Books & Materials $50 Living Expenses $2,800 Total $8,206 Important note: Students in EALS will not be eligible and will not be billed for the Columbia Summer Health Insurance plan because ALP registration will happen after the Columbia Health Insurance enrollment deadline for Summer has passed. If Columbia Health changes this policy, ALP will notify you immediately. Health and Related Services Fee: All ALP students are required to pay the Health and Related Services Fee. This fee covers access to Columbia health services such as medical, counseling, wellbeing, sexual violence response and disability services. For online courses this includes phone/video appointments, accommodations for approved disabilities and access to workshops and training. SPS Activity Fee: this covers SPS expenses relating to orientation, handbooks and events. Instructional Support Fee: this covers class materials and expenses such as playbooks, novels, newspapers, photocopying, theater tickets, museum or event entry. ALP Student Services Fee: this covers internal I-20 processing fees and other SEVIS transactions. Technology Fee: this covers SPS technology expenses, including access to online course management software, Canvas, and tools used to develop online course content. Housing: this is the cost for students in Columbia University Housing. ALP/Columbia Housing is not available for EPP/AAEGS students. This information is provided for financial planning purposes only. Living Expenses: this includes food, transportation, everyday expenses, and Housing. This gives an idea of how much money is needed to live in New York so you can plan financially. Students are not billed for living expenses. Textbooks: this is an estimate only and varies by course. Students are not billed for textbooks. Total: When you apply for an I-20 you must show you have this much money on your financial document. *Note: not all fees are refundable if students withdraw from the program. For a full explanation see the Withdrawal and Tuition Refund page of the ALP website. Application Materials Applicants must apply online. Only applications submitted from the ALP Web site are accepted. Completed online application form. In general, an F-1 (student visa) is required for study in the US. International applicants are required to request an I-20 for the American Language Program (notthe LL.M. program) in order to obtain the F-1 visa and must enroll in a full-time program (18 hours or more per week). All international students taking EPP: Law must have an I-20 issued by the ALP. At the end of the summer, we will transfer your I-20 from the ALP to the International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) so that you can begin your studies at CLS. If you are already holding an F-1 visa and attending another school you must also transfer your SEVIS record from your current school to the ALP. Please speak to your Advisor at your current school. To receive an I-20, please upload your ALP admission letter with the following documents (see below) to the online I-20 application page (Compass). You will receive your admission letter and I-20 instructions after you are admitted to the program. Bank statement: this document must be in English and dated within the last three months. It must be from a checking or savings account and must show sufficient available funds to pay the estimated tuition, fees and living expenses. • To see required balance for I-20, please see the "Total" amount for your program, above. For ALP purposes, we need to see sufficient funds for the ALP I-20 only. However, when we transfer your record from ALP to ISSO at the end of the summer (and when you have your visa appointment at the US Embassy in your country), you must show financial documents with sufficient funds to cover EPP: Law + one year of CLS. Sponsor letter: the letter must be in English and dated within the last three months. It must also be signed by the sponsor. If you are sending your own bank statement you are not required to submit a sponsor letter. The sponsor letter is necessary only if a bank statement will be submitted on your behalf by another person. The person whose bank statement you will submit is your sponsor. Your sponsor must submit a letter (sponsor letter) stating that s/he will provide you with full financial support during the period of your study in the ALP. The sponsor letter must be in English and dated within the last three months. It must also be signed by the sponsor. Photocopy of your passport’s identification page. • The page in your passport that shows your photograph, your name and your date of birth. Once your completed application and accompanying materials and fees have been received and processed, you will receive a U.S. government I-20 A-B form. Bring the I-20 A-B form, along with your letter of acceptance and original financial documents, to a U.S. embassy or consulate in your country to apply for a student (F-1) visa. Students must apply online. Please select English for Professional Purposes: Law as your program. If you have any questions regarding your I-20, SEVIS, transfers, or immigration in general, please contact ALPvisa [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu. At the completion of the English for Professional Purposes: Law course, you will work with the ALP Visa Office to transfer your I-20 to Columbia’s International Students and Scholar’s Office (ISSO) for the completion of the degree program. Connect with Us Learn more about American Language Program at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Joel Chaffee, Assistant Director of ALP Admissions 212-854-3584 alp@sps.columbia.edu Apply to the American Language Program Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy