Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Alumni Alumni Toggle sidebar menu visibility Alumni Learn & Network SPS Alumni Directories & Networks Donate Contact Us Welcome Alumni Welcome to the 380,000-strong alumni community of Columbia University! Here you will find information of interest to all School of Professional Studies alumni, over 10,000 individuals bound together by their shared graduate experience at Columbia, above and beyond the program you attended. An active and engaged alumni community is essential for the success of the school, our faculty and students. Make a Gift Please consider contributing by making a tax-deductible donation to the School of Professional Studies Columbia Giving Day Changing Lives that Change the World SPS Regional Alumni Forums Attend a networking reception in a city near you. Contact Us Office of Alumni Relations School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 spsalumni [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu Columbia Alumni Center Office of Alumni and Development 622 West 113th St. New York, NY 10025 212-851-2177 212-851-7800 alumni [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy