Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Narrative Medicine Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Narrative Medicine Faculty & Advisors Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Faculty Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Narrative Medicine Faculty & Advisors Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Faculty Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Listen to our Podcast Search terms Online Certification of Professional Achievement in Narrative Medicine Narrative medicine is an interdisciplinary field that brings powerful narrative skills of radical listening and creativity from the humanities and the arts to address the needs of all who seek and deliver healthcare. Narrative medicine enables patients and caregivers to voice their experience, to be heard, to be recognized, and to be valued, improving the delivery of healthcare. The non-degree, online Certification of Professional Achievement in Narrative Medicine prepares health professionals, writers, and scholars to apply the skills and values of narrative understanding to improve outcomes for both patients and caregivers. The program is developed specifically for students who seek ways to bring narrative methods into their current careers. The curriculum introduces students to the principles and practice of narrative medicine through rigorous courses that promote intellectual growth, interpersonal relationships, and personal insight. Students will practice designing and evaluating narrative training interventions in clinical settings. Those who complete the Certification Program gain the equivalent of six elective credits toward the Master of Science in Narrative Medicine, should they elect to continue their studies. Taught by Columbia University Narrative Medicine faculty, each course combines multimedia presentations, weekly discussions, and collaborative activities to build skills in the clinical and personal aspects of narrative medicine. Offered part-time for working professionals, the Certification of Professional Achievement in Narrative Medicine is a fully asynchronous online program. Students have the flexibility of accessing course materials, lectures, and assignments each week during times that fit their schedule. Students interact in discussion groups and forums, and participate in collaborative and independent coursework. Students are required to participate in a non-credit Narrative Medicine workshop at some point during the program. Students have access to world-class Columbia faculty as well as career and professional development resources to advance their personal and professional goals. Upon Completion, You Will... Be positioned to champion narrative medicine in medical schools and hospitals. Be prepared to evaluate and expand the impact of narrative medicine programs on clinical practice and quality of care. Become a member of the international Columbia narrative medicine community, committed to setting and upholding rigorous intellectual, clinical, and research standards to move the field forward. Who Should Apply? Healthcare trainees in all clinical disciplines. Professionals who work in healthcare. Those who work in literature, writing and health journalism, oral history, social justice, and medical anthropology, who want to understand illness and disability to advance their own education or help teach healthcare professionals. Apply Now Connect with Us Learn more about Narrative Medicine at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 narrativemedicine@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy