Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Impact In the Community In the Community Toggle sidebar menu visibility In the Community Past Community Events In the Community Across the university, throughout the city and around the world, SPS is committed to engaging our communities with the resources and opportunities necessary to advance their education and careers throughout their lives. Follow us on Twitter Community Events 4/28 | All In on Games! Bridging the Digital Divide Through Play with Dennis Morgan In this Columbia Bundles Community Scholars Lecture, Dennis Morgan, creator of Harlem CoLab, argues that play is central for supporting young learners but also for adult learners as it relates to mastering technological tools. Harlem CoLab's goal is to connect Harlem-based school-age and adult learners with technology through game design in order to become tech-fluent and career-ready. These skills are necessary for obtaining meaningful employment and participating in society. Morgan will outline the genesis and history of the Harlem CoLab, highlighting successes in the past that inform current and future work and partnerships to bridge the digital divide and bring play back to the forefront for learning. By learning about design methodologies and practicing designing and problem-solving, learners build and create for themselves meaningful projects that they can take from the classroom to the workplace. View Past Community Events Latest News In the Community Bundles Community Scholar Debbie Meyer Cited by NYC Mayor for Literacy Advocacy Meyer is a longtime advocate for more inclusive teaching and support for students with dyslexia. Alumni, Impacts and Insights, In the Community Construction Administration M.S. Alumna Andis Woodlief Named DEI Director At AMFP Take advantage of Columbia’s alumni network, says Woodlief. Faculty, In the Community, Staff Bioethics Program Director Dr. Robert Klitzman Discusses Organ Transplants and COVID-19 Vaccination Status A Boston father was denied a heart transplant after he refused to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Upcoming SPS Events View all Events May 31–Jun 3 NAFSA 2022 Annual Conference & Expo Public Event Jun 1 M.S. in Information & Knowledge Strategy Information Session - June 1st, 2022 4:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 1 Conversations with Faculty 4:00 pm EDT Online Info Session View all Events Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy