Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Ideas & Impact The School of Professional Studies is redefining the value of professional education and shaping the new world of work to meet the most pressing needs of students, markets and society. By the Numbers SPS attracts students from around the world who are driven to move their careers, communities and industries forward. 3,000+ Active SPS Alumni 90% Of SPS students are employed at graduation 68 Countries represented in the 2017 student body Learn More Impact Stories Learn how the SPS community translates real-time insights into real-world impact. View All Stories Student ‘Serving Isn’t Only Going to War:’ U.S. Air Force Contracting Officer and SPS Student Joins National COVID-19 Task Force Second Lieutenant Adam C. Grant, '22SPS, was selected to join the United States Air Force COVID-19 RAPiDx Task Force. Alumni A Year After Graduation, Applied Analytics Alumna Jing Li Continues Tapping into Columbia’s Unmatched Network Now at Google, Li says most of her career opportunities came through connections, many from Columbia's Applied Analytics program Alumni Michael Menconi: Dual-Degree Bioethics/ Public Health Alumnus Aspires to Make Sound, Ethical Sense of New and Longstanding Dilemmas in Healthcare Menconi, who earned a Bioethics M.S. & M.P.H. from Columbia, credits the program with bolstering his law school application. View All Stories Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Find the School’s strategy for achieving greater diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility as well as well as resources for staff, faculty, and students. Learn More Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program The Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program prepares talented, high-performing HBCU graduates to lead, innovate, drive community impact, and advance their professional industries through program engagement, mentorship, and career development opportunities. Learn More Youth in STEM The Columbia Youth in STEM Initiative prepares high school students from typically underrepresented populations for STEM studies in college, in collaboration with industry leaders nationwide. Learn More Career Design Lab Our lab in New York City connect students to the people, places and programs that help them achieve their professional goals — while they are here and long after they leave. Learn More Impact Stories Learn how the SPS community translates real-time insights into real-world impact. Learn More By the Numbers SPS attracts students from around the world who are driven to move their careers, communities and industries forward. Learn More In the Community Discover how we are engaging community members to advance their education, careers and impact in Harlem, our surrounding neighborhoods and beyond. Learn More SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work News, insights, tips and commentary from members of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Learn More Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy