Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Academics With 17 Master’s degrees and a variety of flexible courses and formats, our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go — on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Advance and adapt your career with market-responsive programs. Learn More Master of Professional Studies Deepen your knowledge in a specific industry on a flexible schedule. Learn More Certificates & Certifications Gain leading-edge insights or prepare for advanced study. Learn More High School / Pre-college Programs Earn college credit and prepare for post-secondary learning. Learn More Columbia Summer Session Advance your career, prepare for college or explore a new interest. Learn More English Language Programs Improve your American English and deepen your intercultural knowledge. Learn More Postbaccalaureate Studies Design a personalized course of study to meet your educational goals. Learn More Graduate Preparation Develop key skills and strengthen your application for advanced study. Learn More Auditing Programs Explore individual subjects through select classes in Arts and Sciences. Learn More Visiting Students For undergraduate and graduate students seeking to take Columbia courses. Learn More Academic Calendars Consult the School of Professional Studies’ academic calendars. Learn More All Programs View all of the School of Professional Studies’ program offerings. Learn More Executive Education For professionals looking to learn innovative approaches and skills. Learn More Download the PDF of the School's admissions brochure. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy