Close alert We are now accepting applications for Summer 2022. Students must follow University Public Health Protocols in place at the time of participation. Columbia University Pre-College Programs Programs & Events compare programs > events > immersion programs: New York City immersion programs Engage in a rich and demanding academic experience on Columbia's tranquil campus, in the heart of New York City. Summer > immersion programs: online Dive into an Ivy League education with Columbia’s world-class instructors, and a dynamic online experience. Academic Year > Summer > college edge program Earn credit and prepare to maximize your college experience during the summer and academic terms. Summer and Academic Year > high school coding academy: online Gain computer programming and problem-solving skills in this three-week program taught online by leading coding experts. Academic Year > columbia climate school in the green mountains Join us for the first-ever Climate School pre-college program this summer in Castleton, Vermont. Summer > internship in building community A summer internship for undergraduate and graduate students interested in leadership and community development. Summer > Summer Immersion: New York City Enrolled Students Program Policies Menu Overview Courses Commuter Experience Residential Experience Program Cost Apply Overview Calendar Staff Bios HONE YOUR TALENT. FIND YOUR PATH. Session 1: June 27–July 15, 2022 Session 2: July 19–August 5, 2022 Session 3: August 8–August 12, 2022 3-Week Courses 1-Week Courses Apply Sign Up for Updates Events Apply Experience Columbia Immerse Yourself Enroll in an intensive pre-college course, designed to challenge and engage high-achieving students in a supportive environment. Choose from over 70 courses in a dozen subject areas. Study alongside a cohort of like-minded students from all over the world. Experience college life while discovering one of the world's great cities. Attend college success events to prepare for the academic rigors of university life. Earn a Columbia University Certification of Participation and an instructor evaluation. "I took a course that I absolutely loved; I made new friends from around the world; and I had access to a sprawling campus in the heart of a beautiful city.” – Lena K. | Brooklyn, New York Program highlights Over 70 Courses to Choose From Choose from over 70 courses in a dozen subject areas, ranging from neuroscience to understanding blockchain, taught by experts in those fields. Columbia University in New York City Experience college life in the Ivy League while enjoying the vibrancy of New York City. Learn From World-Class Experts and Researchers Students are encouraged to think independently, critically, and creatively. Instructors aim to provide students the ability to think with both open-mindedness and precision about complex and challenging material. College Preparedness Attend events in the form of seminars, workshops, and lectures to prepare for the college application process and the academic rigors of university life. Engaging Activities Choose from a wide variety of daily activities that include lectures by our prestigious faculty, college prep workshops, excursions around the city, community building activities, and health & wellness programming. A Global Community of Scholars Study alongside a cohort of high-achieving students from over 70 countries and 45 states. The program is open to students entering grades 9 through 12 or freshman year of college in the fall. Students must be currently enrolled in school upon applying. Columbia University School of Professional Studies Program Policies Support the Immersion Program Contact us Twitter Facebook Instagram