Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Graduation Details Students Toggle sidebar menu visibility Students Meet the Leadership Team Student Life Overview Meet the Team New Student Orientation Overview Master's Orientation Schedule Non-Degree Orientation Schedule New Student Virtual Workshops SPS Graduation & University Commencement Eligibility Graduation Details Graduate Checklist Guest Details Ceremony Recordings Ceremony FAQs Columbia Residential & Off-Campus Housing Student Government Student Organizations SPS Engage SPS Gets Out the Vote Overview Voter Resources Non-Voter Resources Speaker Series Veterans Resources Student Advising Overview Meet our Advising Team Who is My Advisor? Course Registration Overview Registration Instructions Cross-Registration After Registration Tuition & Finance Overview Dropping Courses Financial Aid and Scholarships Overview External Funding Opportunities Overview Master of Science Programs All Academic Programs Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Academic Policies & Procedures Overview Adding/Dropping Courses Advanced Standing & Course Waivers Audit Policy Distance Education Students Examinations Grades Leaves of Absence Overview Returning from a Leave of Absence Satisfactory Academic Progress Transcripts Visa Information for International Students Withdrawing MS/MPS Degree Conferral & Graduation MS/MPS Degree Conferral & Graduation Certification & Certificate Completion Forms Academic Support Overview Meet the Team Academic Resource Center Academic Integrity & Community Standards Student Wellness Overview Meet the Team Wellness Resources SPS Student Emergency Fund How to Report a Student of Concern Emergency & Crisis Response Career Design Lab Overview Who is My Career Coach? Career Services & Programs CDL Podcast Career Journey Resources Overview Self-Assessment Career Transitions Employer & Industry Research Informational Interviews Resume Cover Letter Pitch LinkedIn Networking Job Search Interviews Negotiation International Students Veterans Disability Career Resources LGBTQ+ Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Premium Subscriptions CDL Calendar of Events Overview UNICC & Columbia SPS Think-a-Thon Global Career Week e-Mentor Program Virtual China Career Fair Executive Case Series (ECS) - Fall 2020 Executive Case Series (ECS)—Spring 2021 Employers: Hire SPS Students and Alumni SPS Faculty & Administrators: Ways to Engage with CDL Meet the Career Design Lab Staff & Interns Career Outcomes Data Alumni Career Services FAQs Share Your Experience Events Overview Climate Careers Symposium Leading Towards Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Contact Us Graduation Details Class of 2022 The School of Professional Studies held its 2022 SPS Graduation as two ceremonies both on Friday, May 13, 2022, with a morning ceremony at 10:00 a.m. EST and an afternoon ceremony at 1:30 p.m. EST. Each event had its own faculty speaker and student speaker, who you can learn more about below. For a complete list of "to-do's", Class of 2022 graduates should refer to the Graduate Checklist. View the 2022 Graduate Checklist Graduate Registration Registration, which is required for all students to participate in their ceremony, closed on April 11, 2022. Graduates may access the Marching Order platform to register for their ceremony, as well as manage their guest tickets, by clicking here and logging in with their Columbia email. COVID-19 Requirements Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To that end, all graduates, visiting alumni and guests (except children 5 years and under) must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status, or comply with the unvaccinated policies in order to attend in-person Graduation and Commencement events. Click above to learn more! Guest Attendee Information All guests wishing to attend SPS Graduation must have a ticket and proper COVID-19 documentation. For guest arrival and entry details, along with other important information, click here. Ceremony Location Graduation took place on the South Lawn, located directly in front of Butler Library's main entrance. Click here to see this location on the university map. Ceremony Assignments At 10:00 a.m EST., we celebrated the candidates for graduation from the following programs: Applied Analytics Construction Administration Human Capital Management Insurance Management Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Sports Management Technology Management Wealth Management At 1:30 pm EST., we celebrated the candidates for graduation from the following programs: Actuarial Science Bioethics Enterprise Risk Management Information and Knowledge Strategy Narrative Medicine Nonprofit Management Strategic Communication Sustainability Management Sustainability Science Guest Tickets All guests must present a ticket to enter the ceremonies. Each SPS Graduate may reserve up to six (6) guest tickets to share with friends and family who will be attending their assigned ceremony. When graduates formally register for graduation via Marching Order, they will be asked how many tickets they want to reserve and be given the option to email or print each ticket. Each guest over the age of 2 must have a ticket and will be asked to show a print or digital copy of this ticket to enter the ceremony. Graduates can access and manage their guest tickets on Marching Order. Additionally, guests must abide by the university's COVID-19 policy, detailed below. Guests are also encouraged to review our Guest Details information page. Day of Information 10:00 AM Ceremony Graduate Check-In: 8:30 - 9:00 AM ET Guest Entry Opens: 9:00 AM ET Ceremony Start: 10:00 AM ET 1:30 PM Ceremony Graduate Check-In: 12:00 - 12:30 PM ET Guest Entry Opens: 12:30 PM ET Ceremony Start: 1:30 PM ET Ceremony Speakers Len Elmore Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Sports Management, Faculty Speaker: SPS Graduation 2022 Robert Klitzman, M.D. Program Director, M.S. in Bioethics, School of Professional Studies; Professor of Psychiatry (in Sociomedical Sciences), Columbia University Medical Center Adam Gerber President, SPS Student Government, Student Speaker at SPS Graduation 2022 Jenifer Bloodsworth Wealth Management Representative, SPS Student Government, Student Speaker at SPS Graduation 2022 Classes of 2020 and 2021 Additionally, Columbia welcomed the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2021 for a campus celebration the morning of Thursday, May 19, 2022. Alumni who graduated virtually these past two years had the long-awaited opportunity to celebrate in person as a school. Immediately following the morning’s University Celebration from 9–10:30 a.m., SPS hosted a reception on Ancell Plaza from 11 a.m.–1 p.m. Registration for this reception closed on Friday, April 1, 2022. Columbia University Commencement 2022 Congratulations to the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022! The Columbia University Commencement ceremony of the 268th academic year took place at the conclusion of the Spring 2022 semester. During this optional ceremony, graduates from all of Columbia's schools were recognized en masse and President Lee Bollinger addressed the University. This ceremony was held on the steps of Low Library on Columbia's Morningside Campus. Ceremony for the Class of 2022 Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at 10:30 AM ET Ceremony for the Class of 2020 and 2021 Thursday, May 19, 2022, at 9 AM ET. For more information, visit the Commencement Website. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy