Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour The School As one of the twenty prestigious schools affiliated with Columbia University, the School of Professional Studies is expanding the reach and impact of an Ivy League education so more students can take their education and careers to the next level. Purpose Columbia University's School of Professional Studies is committed to providing diverse, innovative programs to enable students to succeed in their educational and professional development. Learn More Office of the Dean Troy has been a member of the Columbia community for nearly two decades... Learn More Faculty The SPS faculty consists of renowned educators and leading-edge practitioners across every major sector. Learn More Leadership SPS is home to prominent executives and scholars who provide strategic counsel, mentor students, and cultivate partnerships between the school and the professional world. Learn More Academic Partners SPS collaborates with schools and initiatives across Columbia University to drive innovation, deepen expertise and strengthen programs for all. Learn More Our Global Presence We are at the epicenter of industry and innovation, with flexible programs in New York City, Paris and online. Learn More History From the beginning, SPS has provided students with the knowledge, skills and strategies they need to advance their personal and professional goals. Learn More Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy