Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb The School Purpose Our Purpose Toggle sidebar menu visibility Mission Columbia University's School of Professional Studies is committed to providing diverse, innovative programs to enable students to succeed in their educational and professional development. Our programs utilize Columbia University’s leadership in research and education to deliver flexible traditional and nontraditional programs to meet students where they are in their lives. SPS is dedicated to enabling access to education in order to create a richer and more equitable society. Vision The School's programs are offered in multiple formats: from online asynchronous degree programs that enable full-time professionals to continue their development to intensive in-person programs that enable students to immerse themselves in their studies. Our programs serve high school students, undergraduate and graduate students, and the University’s neighbors at every stage of their personal and professional lives. Our Student Life and co-curricular programs ensure that students are able to access career coaching and development, special events and programs, and a wide array of clubs. The Academic Affairs division ensures programs draw on the latest research to ensure our students are equipped to innovate across sectors, and mobilizes distinguished practitioner adjunct faculty to translate research into practice. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy