Columbia University Pre-College Programs Programs & Events compare programs > events > immersion programs: New York City immersion programs Engage in a rich and demanding academic experience on Columbia's tranquil campus, in the heart of New York City. Summer > immersion programs: online Dive into an Ivy League education with Columbia’s world-class instructors, and a dynamic online experience. Academic Year > Summer > college edge program Earn credit and prepare to maximize your college experience during the summer and academic terms. Summer and Academic Year > high school coding academy: online Gain computer programming and problem-solving skills in this three-week program taught online by leading coding experts. Academic Year > columbia climate school in the green mountains Join us for the first-ever Climate School pre-college program this summer in Castleton, Vermont. Summer > internship in building community A summer internship for undergraduate and graduate students interested in leadership and community development. Summer > Online Immersion Enrolled Students Program Policies Menu Overview Courses Student Experience Online Experience Program Cost Apply Overview Calendar Staff Bios Online Summer Immersion Programs Session 1: July 5–15, 2022 Session 2: July 18–29, 2022 Session 3: August 1–5, 2022 2-Week Courses 1-Week Courses Apply Sign Up for Updates Events Apply Experience Columbia Get a head start Dive into an Ivy League education this summer with Columbia’s world-class instructors, and a dynamic online learning platform. Interact with Columbia instructors and experts in their fields. Engage with an international community of students. Prepare for college and the admissions process through specially designed programs. Participate in extracurricular activities led by current students. Earn a Columbia University Certification of Participation and evaluation letter. "I have gained so much from this program, both academically and socially…and love Columbia for its collaborative environment and rigorous education." – Allie T. | Issaquah, Washington "I have been a part of the Summer Immersion program for the past four years. This summer, I took Introduction to Neuroscience. The most amazing experiences have not only been the classes, but the community I have formed, the friends I have made from all around the world." – Anja J. | New York, New York "I took Human Rights in the 21st Century, which was very insightful and exciting. We covered climate activism, something I am particularly very passionate about. I really enjoyed communicating with peers my age who share the same passion around these issues." – Jordana R. | Weston, Florida Founded in 1986, Columbia University's Programs for High School Students is open to students entering grades 9 through 12 and freshman year of college. Learn more about the admissions process. Participants select from over 40 curricular options for an in-depth examination of a specific subject area. See a complete list of 2-Week and 1-Week courses. Classes meet online Monday through Friday, where students refine their academic skills through a variety of activities—class discussions, debates, simulations, individual and group projects, and more. Read more about our dynamic online experience. Outside of class, students participate in extracurricular and co-curricular activities, including college preparedness programming, community outreach and awareness activities, and special lectures. Discover the student experience beyond class. Through this combination of academic immersion and engaging extracurricular activities, students are allowed to explore their passions and hone skills that will help them succeed in college and beyond. Have any questions? Check out our FAQ page. The program is open to students entering grades 9 through 12 or freshman year of college in the fall. Students must be currently enrolled in school upon applying. Columbia University School of Professional Studies Program Policies Support the Immersion Program Contact us Twitter Facebook Instagram