Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Enterprise Risk Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Enterprise Risk Management Featured Faculty Full-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Preview ERM Coursework Frequently Asked Questions Events Upcoming Events Coding for Risk Management Introduction to Finance Introduction to Quantitative Risk Management (iQRM) Seminars Exploring the Power of Mindfulness with Rajiah Williams Leong Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Enterprise Risk Management Featured Faculty Full-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Preview ERM Coursework Frequently Asked Questions Events Upcoming Events Coding for Risk Management Introduction to Finance Introduction to Quantitative Risk Management (iQRM) Seminars Exploring the Power of Mindfulness with Rajiah Williams Leong Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on YouTube Listen to our Podcast Search terms Certification of Professional Achievement in Enterprise Risk Management Columbia University’s non-degree Certification of Professional Achievement in Enterprise Risk Management prepares graduates to make effective risk-reward decisions through a complete understanding of how to assess and address volatility across an entire enterprise. The program prepares risk professionals to design and implement ERM programs that enhance all decision-making processes, ranging from strategic to traditional mitigation decisions. It also provides a robust toolkit of advanced risk management skills and approaches that can be applied to enhance value at both the enterprise level and in specialized risk management roles. The core coursework provides insights into how to utilize these ERM and risk management tools and techniques across a variety of proven, market-driven risk management frameworks. Gain Multifaceted and Practical ERM Knowledge The program has five distinct features critical for ERM success: A practical approach, utilizing ERM tools and techniques that have been tested and proven in the marketplace by our faculty, who are globally recognized ERM leaders. A focus on all aspects of ERM, including ERM framework, risk governance, risk identification, risk quantification, risk decision-making, and risk messaging. Comprehensive understanding of key risk sources, including strategic (e.g. competitor risk), operational (e.g. HR), financial (e.g. market risk), and insurance risk (e.g. pricing risk). Flexible course options that allow students to explore topics that matter most to them. Effective communication skills to gain buy-in from key internal and external stakeholders. Develop Key Skills Upon successful completion of the program, you will be prepared to: Quantify all types of risks, including strategic, operational, financial, and insurance. Develop a clear definition of risk appetite (the aggregate enterprise-level risk limit). Design and implement customized ERM frameworks and risk governance structures for any type of organization. Conduct qualitative assessments to identify and prioritize key risks from among all sources. Enhance strategic planning, increasing the likelihood of achieving strategic plan goals. Provide a rigorous business case to inform more effective risk-reward decision-making. Assure the board of directors that key risks are well understood and managed. Understand and satisfy ERM requirements from rating agencies, regulators, and shareholders. Apply ERM techniques to enhance decision-making at the enterprise level or in the specialized risk management roles. Complete the Program in Less Than One Year Offered on Columbia’s campus in New York City, this four-course program can be taken on a full-time or part-time basis. For students who take two courses per term, it allows for completion in under one year. Download the Fact Sheet Learn more about the program, including its flexible options and core competencies, in the Enterprise Risk Management Fact Sheet. DOWNLOAD Who Should Apply? Individuals who plan to pursue or advance a career in enterprise risk management, as well as those who want to expand their abilities in specialized risk management in areas such as auditing, information technology, compliance, and management of insurable risks. Apply Now Also Available Master of Science Ideal for pursuit of a senior role, such as chief risk officer, director/manager of enterprise risk, senior risk director/manager, corporate risk director/manager, or risk manager in categories such as financial, operational, strategic, and ERM. Learn More Non-credit Courses Ideal for becoming more effective in targeted aspects of a current role in enterprise risk management, for those in traditional silo risk management, and for pursuit of an actuarial role with focused ERM knowledge. Learn More Connect with Us Learn more about Enterprise Risk Management at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 erm@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy