Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Master of Professional Studies Columbia University Master of Professional Studies Toggle sidebar menu visibility Columbia University Master of Professional Studies An Accelerated Degree Designed for Experienced Professionals Master of Professional Studies (M.P.S.) programs are designed for enterprising and forward-thinking professionals, seeking to deepen their knowledge in a specific industry on a flexible schedule. Students will be immersed in an online, industry-focused curriculum that emphasizes problem-based learning. From the start, students gain practical skills that are immediately applicable at work, and form lifelong relationships that will inspire purpose throughout their careers and communities. I could not have imagined the level of insight, topical relevance, and cutting-edge perspective brought by Columbia's extraordinary faculty. The program brings the industry's best minds to address current issues while anticipating its evolution and ultimate direction." Filipe D., ’22SPS, Wealth Management Professional Community All students have relevant professional experience, which expands the learning environment and facilitates knowledge-sharing in their field. In addition to seasoned scholar-practitioner faculty, the programs are supported by industry leaders and professionals who are committed to enriching our students’ academic experience and offer high-level networking opportunities. Learn more about the Insurance Management Corporate Advisory Network and Wealth Management Advisory Council. Through the Wealth Management program at Columbia, I’ve been able to share best practices with my fellow cohort members and I’ve been learning so much through these unprecedented times." Anisa L., ’22SPS, Wealth Management Learn on Your Time; Engage in Real Time Online asynchronous instruction provides flexibility for students to manage their learning around their busy professional and personal lives. Students do not have to “attend” class at a specified time, but are required to fulfill course requirements within a flexible—yet structured—16-month timeframe. Students will also build community and connections through synchronous engagement, including faculty office hours, group projects, industry and career events, and various other student activities and clubs. An online platform allows for the ability to network with peers, faculty and industry leaders around the world. We have all become more adept at interacting in virtual settings during this pandemic. I take full [advantage] of the settings to enhance networking and learning opportunities." Samara F., ‘22SPS, Insurance Management Scholar-Practitioner Faculty Our faculty are leading scholar-practitioners, who have excelled in their careers and are eager to share their insights through cutting-edge curricula at Columbia. They are passionate about advancing their industries and educating the next generation of thought leaders. Meet the Insurance Management Faculty and Wealth Management Faculty. This program has given me behind the scenes industry knowledge that would take decades of field experience to obtain. The course lecturers are truly giving back to an industry in which they excelled." Jay C., ‘22SPS, Insurance Management Rigorous Curriculum Columbia’s M.P.S. programs are innovative and ground-breaking. The dynamic curricula are created for career-long learners who want to elevate the value they bring to the table and enhance their ability to build trust and credibility with colleagues and clients. Students learn to apply strategies and tools to successfully navigate industry changes through the study of disruptive trends and emerging topics. The curricula are centered around problem-based learning, which connects advanced theory with practical applications. Students work on real-world problems derived from the faculty’s experiences in the field. They are encouraged to engage faculty and peers to find innovative solutions and test new frameworks. Through this learning process, students acquire the skills and knowledge that lead to meaningful contributions to their employers’ strategic goals, and have an immediate impact on their industry. With the strategies learned in the Insurance Management courses, I am confident I will make better day-to-day and longer-term decisions that will drive efficiency and effective approaches for handling complex ever-changing challenges." Michael D., ‘22SPS, Insurance Management Related Programs Master's Degrees Insurance Management Usher in a new era of market-responsive innovations and transformative thought leadership through insurance management. Program Options Online Part-time Master's Degrees Wealth Management Build expertise in the advanced theory & practical applications of wealth management in this CFP Board Registered Program. Program Options Online Part-time Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy