Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Certificates & Certifications Classics Classics Certificate Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Classics Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Columbia Resources Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Contact Classics Certificate Offered by Columbia University’s Department of Classics and the School of Professional Studies, the rigorous Advanced Graduate Certificate in Classics program provides inquisitive and driven college graduates with the opportunity to advance their knowledge of ancient Greek and Latin. Providing comprehensive training in the classical languages, the program is designed primarily for students who would like to prepare for graduate-level study or careers in classics or related disciplines such as ancient history, art and archaeology, philosophy, religion, and medieval studies. Applicants admitted to the program have generally completed prior coursework in ancient Greek or Latin. On occasion, the program has admitted students with different academic backgrounds. The program’s flexible schedule allows students to advance their education at their preferred pace. Application Announcement Now accepting applications. Learn more. 8 Courses total 300,000 In the Global Network you join as a Columbia grad Prepare for a Top Tier Graduate School Students who have excelled in the program have been accepted into elite M.A. and Ph.D. programs at institutions including: Brown Cambridge Columbia N.Y.U. Oxford Princeton University of California at Berkeley University of Chicago University of Michigan Yale Program Details Certificate Options Application Requirements Course Format Time Commitment Advanced Graduate Certificate in Classics (Part‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Part-time students can complete the program in four or more semesters. 8 courses in total. Advanced Graduate Certificate in Classics (Full‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Students can complete the required coursework in two or three semesters of full-time study. 8 courses in total. Advance knowledge of ancient Greek and Latin and prepare for graduate-level study or a career change. Who should apply: Students who would like to prepare for graduate-level study or careers in classics or related disciplines such as ancient history, art and archaeology, philosophy, religion, or medieval studies. Lifelong benefits you receive as a Columbia graduate: Access to a world-renowned system of libraries A Columbia email address Membership in a network of Columbia students, faculty and alumni International Students: Qualifies students on an F1 Visa to apply for Optional Practical Training (OPT) upon completion of the certificate. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Student Yilin Liu: Bringing Ancient Greece into the Digital Age with the Help of an SPS Research Grant Liu was recently awarded a $900 grant from SPS for research that combines ancient Greek epigraphy with data visualization. Related Programs Certificates & Certifications United Nations Studies Increase understanding of the history, inner workings, and challenges associated with the UN's role in the world today. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Certificates & Certifications Narrative Medicine CPA Apply the skills and values of narrative understanding to improve outcomes for both patients and caregivers. Program Options Online Part-time In the News View All News Impacts and Insights Keep Learning and Keep Connecting This Spring at SPS Participate in forward-thinking events with leading academics and industry experts this Spring at SPS. Student Students: Send Videos of HyFlex Life at Columbia! Send us a 15- to 30-second video showing what HyFlex learning is like on campus. School Keep Moving Forward with Columbia Your Columbia education is unstoppable. View All News Connect with Us Learn more about Advanced Graduate Certificate in Classics at Columbia University School of Professional Studies Request more information Classics Admissions Counselor classics@sps.columbia.edu Office of Admissions 212-854-9666 inquire@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy