Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Columbia Summer Session Critical Issues in International Relations Critical Issues in International Relations: Summer Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Critical Issues in International Relations Critical Issues in International Relations: Summer Because of the interconnectedness of our world, organizations need to operate as responsible global citizens. How do you navigate the kaleidoscope of technologies, cultures and regulations? This certification equips you with the tools needed to function effectively in this evolving field. You will acquire knowledge of the basic analytical issues, theoretical approaches, history and policy debates that currently impact international relations. You will study with faculty who share from real-world experience with organizations like the U.N. This summer program is ideal if you are a recent graduate who wishes to apply for an advanced degree in the field. If you are a professional, the certificate can accelerate your current career, or help you pivot to organizations like global nonprofits, the U.N., government agencies, or international corporations. Finally, the certification offers opportunities for personal enrichment because the topics covered are at the core of how we live today. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy