Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Nonprofit Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Nonprofit Management Faculty Full-Time Master of Science, On-Campus Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses: On campus Curriculum & Courses: Online Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Capstone Project Events Overview Nonprofits & Election 2020 Overview Previous Events Starting a Nonprofit: The Four Fundamental Steps Leading Towards Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Master Class Series Overview Previous Events Special Events for Students and Alumni Overview 2020 Nonprofit Management Graduate Celebration and Alumni Welcome Previous Events News Impact Stories Research Program Resources Contact Search terms M.S. Nonprofit Management Management with a Mission Nonprofit Management Faculty Full-Time Master of Science, On-Campus Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science: On-Campus & Online Options Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses: On campus Curriculum & Courses: Online Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Capstone Project Events Overview Nonprofits & Election 2020 Overview Previous Events Starting a Nonprofit: The Four Fundamental Steps Leading Towards Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Master Class Series Overview Previous Events Special Events for Students and Alumni Overview 2020 Nonprofit Management Graduate Celebration and Alumni Welcome Previous Events News Impact Stories Research Program Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Search terms Mission driven? So are we. Our Program's Mission The M.S. Nonprofit Management Program at Columbia University will provide our students and alumni with the leading curriculum and professional credential in the nonprofit sector. Our program shall be viewed as a locus of thought leadership and research on nonprofits and philanthropy, and one that is grounded in equity and inclusion considerations, which are crucial to our nonprofit sector and the communities we serve. Our graduates will possess a grounding in the major management skills needed for this unique sector and the analytical framework to understand contemporary policy issues, leadership challenges, and ethical considerations. Nonprofit Management Columbia’s M.S. in Nonprofit Management prepares graduates for leadership roles within mission-driven organizations in a wide variety of contexts, including global and community nonprofits, foundations, education, healthcare, the arts, or as fundraising and development experts. The program reflects the growth and increased sophistication of the nonprofit sector, as well as the need for nonprofit organizations to demonstrate impact more effectively. Students become conversant with new technologies, digital media, and data analytics, as well as public-private partnerships, which are being deployed to help solve some of the most intractable problems across the globe. Meet the Faculty Curriculum & Course Descriptions Program Events Upcoming Events Jun 8 M.S. in Nonprofit Management Information Session 12:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Upcoming Events Learn more about the M.S. in Nonprofit Management by attending an upcoming event. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Program Options Program Options Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) Professional experience or interest in mission-driven work On-campus 3 terms Capstone Project Fall intake only Master of Science (part‑time) Professional experience or interest in mission-driven work On-campus or Online Up to 6 terms Capstone Project Fall or Spring intake In the News View All News Alumni, Student Congratulations 2022 M.S. Nonprofit Management Graduates! Check out highlights of the M.S. Nonprofit Management's 2021-2022 academic year and photos of the May 13th graduation celebration: Congratulations 2022 M.S. Nonprofit Management Graduates! Student M.S. Nonprofit Management Student Aims to Turn Compassion into Meaningful Action Through Diversity and Inclusion Committee Fatima Jawad Syed is a DEIA Committee Student Representative and an Executive Board Member of the NOPM Student Association Faculty Senior Lecturer Greg Witkowski on the Genesis of “Spite Philanthropy” Dr. Witkowski refers to donations made specifically to offend or dishonor another. View All News Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni View All Alumni Former Hearst President and M.S. Nonprofit Management Alum Michael Clinton Publishes “Roar Into the Second Half of Your Life” Michael Clinton, ’21SPS, is a seasoned publishing executive, with over forty years of experience in the magazine industry. Alumni Nonprofit Management Alumna Won Palisoul Appointed to Biden-Harris Administration Post Palisoul will serve as Special Assistant to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness at the Pentagon. Reflecting on Gay Pride, the 40th Anniversary of HIV/AIDS, and the Significance of the Nonprofit Sector in Movement Building "To be able to reflect and celebrate in this moment is incredibly important to me as a Black gay man living in this country." View All Connect with Us Learn more about Nonprofit Management at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 Nonprofit@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy