Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Insurance Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Insurance Management Faculty & Advisors Curriculum & Courses Key Dates Corporate Advisory Network About the Master of Professional Studies Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Admissions Overview Deadlines Application Process Credentials Verification Specific Program Qualifications and Application Requirements Policies Admitted Students Frequently Asked Questions Columbia Resources Spencer Scholarship Other External Funding Opportunities: Scholarships Academic Policies & Procedures Events Upcoming Events Past Events Impact Stories News Contact Search terms Insurance Management The Columbia University Master's in Insurance Management equips a new generation of professionals to lead insurance businesses with advanced industry knowledge, strategic and operational expertise, and the skills to champion new ideas. The Thinker epitomizes the program's commitment to fostering creativity, innovation, and thought leadership for the benefit of society. Apply Now Insurance Management Faculty & Advisors Curriculum & Courses Key Dates Corporate Advisory Network About the Master of Professional Studies Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Admissions Overview Deadlines Application Process Credentials Verification Specific Program Qualifications and Application Requirements Policies Admitted Students Frequently Asked Questions Columbia Resources Spencer Scholarship Other External Funding Opportunities: Scholarships Academic Policies & Procedures Events Upcoming Events Past Events Impact Stories News Contact Search terms Ensure the Future Master's in Insurance Management Part-Time | Online | Asynchronous Instruction | 16 Months The only master's degree of its kind The insurance industry is undergoing an accelerated rate of change. Embracing the use of data and technological advancements has enabled insurers and their partners to provide products and services that are increasingly customer-centric. At the same time, innovation is challenging traditional business practices with competitive new players, and the heightened expectations of insureds, investors and other stakeholders from corporate decisions are making the management of insurance enterprises more complex. The proactive leadership and administration of an insurance business in today’s dynamic environment requires a holistic understanding of the interdisciplinary relationships between key business units and the foresight to implement timely advancements. The ability to be forward-thinking, apply emotional intelligence, and convey thought leadership will help insurance professionals distinguish themselves and their companies. This program provides students the opportunity to refine these skills, incubate new ideas, and expand their professional network while they receive instruction and mentorship from a team of respected industry professionals who are committed to sharing their knowledge and experience. This 16-month part-time program is specially designed to blend asynchronous online instruction with flexible peer and faculty interaction to accommodate working professionals. Its comprehensive problem-based learning structure prepares students to apply what they learn today in the office tomorrow. Ensure the future of insurance—engage our academic and professional network through Columbia University’s Insurance Management master’s program, the only program of its kind in the Ivy League. Who Should Apply? Insurance/Reinsurance Professionals and Entrepreneurs: those seeking enrichment, advancement, and entrepreneurial opportunity in the insurance industry, including Insurtech innovators Career and Industry Changers: those seeking to apply related subject matter expertise to professional, managerial, and leadership roles in insurance Members of the Insurance Ecosystem: including, risk managers, third-party service providers, collaborators, innovators, investors, bankers, lawyers, consultants. Professionals who have had a role in the insurance or other relatable industry, or who hold positions as: Underwriter, Senior Underwriter, Underwriting Manager, Product Specialist, Underwriting Quality Review Auditor, Operations Analyst, Operations Manager, Assistant General Counsel, Business Development/ Relationship Manager, Distribution Marketing/Communications Manager, IT/Business Analyst, Actuary, Claims Adjuster, Claims Specialist, Claims Manager, Account Executive/Client Executive, Producer, Broker, Placement Manager, and Consultant Upcoming Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session All Upcoming Events In the News Faculty An Insurance Management Perspective on a Risk Management Podcast Chan describes her professional background and how the Insurance Management program was built. How Columbia’s Insurance Management Master’s Program is Broadening This Claims Specialist’s Perspective on the Business of Insurance With just one semester complete, student Teresa Dryden-Smith says she's already been able to apply lessons to her work. Press Release Columbia’s Insurance Management Master’s Program Receives $20,000 Gift, Establishes the Dennis Baker Insurance Advancement Fund Columbia’s Insurance Management Master’s Program received a $20,000 gift to support new talent in the insurance industry. View All News Featured Faculty and Students Alumnus Chris McKeon shared his perspective as a student in the Insurance Management program While in his second semester of the program, Chris talked about the expectations he had as a member of the first cohort. How Columbia’s Insurance Management Master’s Program is Broadening This Claims Specialist’s Perspective on the Business of Insurance With just one semester complete, student Teresa Dryden-Smith says she's already been able to apply lessons to her work. Student Former Marine and Insurance Professional Todd Shepersky on Learning to Push for Change Shepersky served as a Corporal in the U.S. Marine Corps, and earned his B.S. in Mathematics from Washington State University. All Impact Stories Fast Facts Expertise Scholar-practitioner faculty has 300+ years of work experience that they can share. Innovation Coursework requires students to generate ideas and solutions that could bring value to their employers or new markets. Mentorship Industry alliances with the Corporate Advisory Network, guest lecturers and faculty are a pillar of the program. Program Options Program Option Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Professional Studies (part‑time) Online asynchronous instruction Four consecutive terms Applied research project Two in-person residencies* Admissions Tuition & Financing About the M.P.S. Program Curriculum Scholarships Events At a Glance Part-Time The Master of Professional Studies in Insurance Management is for career professionals who want to accelerate their advancement to leadership positions or broaden their expertise in the industry. It accommodates both professionals already working in insurance and those looking to make a career change. The program is part-time, online, and instruction is asynchronous to accommodate working professionals. It consists of 10 required courses taken over four consecutive semesters (approximately 16 months, total, including a summer session), and two on-campus, in-person residencies, to the extent possible, prior to the start of and at the conclusion of the program. Only fall entry is available. Upon completion of this program, students will be equipped to: Lead decision-making by applying broad knowledge and holistic understanding of the inter-disciplinary functions within insurance companies. Leverage data and technology advancements to meet the demand for digital procurement and client-centric insurance. Implement strategic and tactical plans to drive business growth, expand into new markets, and build relationships in insurance and other business ecosystems. Champion corporate initiatives to meet environmental, social, and governance goals. Translate market trends and issues into impactful business opportunities and solutions. Program features include: An elite, cutting-edge curriculum that integrates emerging issues with a situation- and problem-based learning structure. A preeminent scholar-practitioner faculty that includes seasoned insurance industry leaders who incorporate their multidisciplinary insights and real-world experiences. A part-time, easy-to-follow online course of study ideal for working professionals. The online coursework is supplemented by two in-person sessions to connect students with their peers, faculty, guest speakers, and other thought leaders for networking and collaboration. Exclusive access to a robust professional network of corporate insurance partners, thought leaders, faculty, and peers, as well as career development services and professional development opportunities. A collegial, supportive environment and strong peer network cultivated by the program’s cohort structure. An Applied Research Project that empowers students to select a real-world business challenge and develop strategies for implementing responsive product or service solutions. APPLY NOW Sample Courses AI, Data and Technology in Insurance Insurance Risk Management The Role of Finance in Insurance Emerging Risk and Insurance Topics View All Courses Career Outlook Entrance into the Insurance Management program includes access to the Career Design Lab, a hub that connects students with the resources and relationships to pursue meaningful work. Equipped with knowledge, skills and Columbia’s extensive network, graduates will have a competitive advantage for advancement. The program prepares graduates for leadership roles at insurance companies, brokerages, and agencies, or consulting and insurtech firms. Connect with Us Learn more about Insurance Management at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor, Insurance Management (212) 854-9666 insurancemanagement@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy