Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Columbia SPS Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) Initiative Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Toggle sidebar menu visibility Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Antiracism at SPS University Resources Committee News Events News View All News & Events School New Equity Language Guide Available for Columbia SPS Faculty, Staff, and Students Being respectful and thoughtful in our exchanges with each other is integral to fostering an inclusive community. School Nominations Open for SPS DEIA Committee Student Representative Nominations are open through Friday, January 28th, at 11:59 p.m. ET. School DEIA Committee Launches Faculty, Student, and Staff Climate Surveys The deadline for submitting responses is February 10, 2022. View All News & Events Upcoming Events All Events Jun 15 Why Juneteenth Matters 1:00 pm EDT SPS Event All Events Message from the Dean In July 2020, President Bollinger outlined Columbia’s commitment to antiracism, announced steps we are taking as an institution to do more, and asked the University community to dedicate ourselves to a New Civil Rights Movement. The School of Professional Studies is heeding that call in several ways to create more inclusive education spaces and workplaces. We are advancing our faculty diversity program; investing in collaborative research initiatives; facilitating discussions between faculty, students, and field experts; and listening to the climate of our programs and departments. Troy J. Eggers Dean, Columbia University School of Professional Studies The School is poised to affect real change, thanks to our strong relationships across industries and our commitment to developing principled, effective leaders and compassionate, engaged citizens." Here you will find the School’s developing strategy in our commitment to antiracism, as well as resources for our students, faculty, and staff to guide us as we work together toward achieving greater diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. Sincerely, Troy J. Eggers Dean Columbia University School of Professional Studies Message from the Chief Diversity Officer We need to understand that any DEIA initiative has to be grounded in the fundamental belief that each and every one of us deserves to be treated with dignity—that we are born with intrinsic value and worth. That includes feeling a sense of belonging, being heard, and being able to make a difference. Together, the various elements of DEIA provide us a lens through which we see who we are as an organization and a community, how we treat each other, and what we need to do to make sure that each member of our community flourishes. Diversity refers to the various groups with which we are identified or choose to identify. We usually focus on race and gender, but to fully measure the diversity of our community--students, staff, and faculty--we will need to explore other categories such as sexual orientation, gender identity, physical/cognitive abilities, socioeconomic background, etc. Are these identities and groups, particularly those that have been and to this day remain underrepresented and marginalized, visible and celebrated in SPS? Equity means that all members of our community are treated fairly and justly in our organizational structures, policies, procedures, and day-to-day practices. Inclusion means that each and everyone in our community, especially those who are relegated to the margins, feel welcomed and heard. Beyond words, we should all feel that we have a say in the very decisions that impact us. Finally, Accessibility means allowing full representation and participation to everyone, regardless of physical and cognitive ability. Through the DEIA lens, we clearly see who we are and who we aspire to be as a community. Erwin de Leon, Ph.D. Chief Diversity Officer, SPS; Lecturer in the Discipline of Nonprofit Management; Research Fellow, Knology; Member, Empire State Bioethics Consortium Equity means that all members of our community are treated fairly and justly in our organizational structures, policies, procedures, and day-to-day practices. Inclusion means that each and everyone in our community, especially those who are relegated to the margins, feel welcomed and heard." Equity means that all members of our community are treated fairly and justly in our organizational structures, policies, procedures, and day-to-day practices. Inclusion means that each and everyone in our community, especially those who are relegated to the margins, feel welcomed and heard. Sincerely, Erwin de Leon, Ph.D. Chief Diversity Officer and Lecturer in the Discipline of Nonprofit Management Columbia University School of Professional Studies University Partners Office of the Provost: Inclusive Faculty Pathways Office of University Life - Inclusion & Belonging Resources for Racial Justice Columbia University LGBTQ+ Resource Guide The LGBTQ+ Scholarship Initiative Pronouns in Use Project Webiar: How to Be a Visible LGBTQ+ Ally Questions If you have questions, feedback, or suggestions, or you want to get involved with diversity initiatives at SPS, send us an email at spsdiversity [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy