Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Information & Knowledge Strategy (IKNS) Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Information & Knowledge Strategy Faculty | Students | Staff Curriculum & Courses Overview Required Courses Elective Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies For Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources For International Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News IKNS - 1887 to Now IKNS Careers Contact My IKNS Search terms Information & Knowledge Strategy (IKNS) Master of Science Apply Now Information & Knowledge Strategy Faculty | Students | Staff Curriculum & Courses Overview Required Courses Elective Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies For Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources For International Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News IKNS - 1887 to Now IKNS Careers Contact My IKNS Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Twitter Search terms Strategic use of data and information in management Sign-up to stay informed about IKNS news and events Whether you are an analyst or CEO – in the private sector, NGO, or a non-profit – you have at your fingertips a deluge of data and fast evolving analytical tools to gather intelligence about your own organization, your partners & competitors, and your customers. But how do you separate the signal from the noise? How do you use both the data and the human talent in your organization to arrive at smarter, more innovative management decisions? And how do you translate these insights into lasting change? Enter Columbia's Master of Science in Information & Knowledge Strategy (IKNS). Grounded in the field of Knowledge Management, our inter-disciplinary curriculum will provide you with foundations in information science, organizational psychology, and change management as well as practical skills in project management and executive leadership to dramatically increase your impact – whether in your current organization or for a career pivot. As an IKNS student, you will train under world-class faculty, including former and current executives from Accenture, Google, IBM, and NASA. And you will join a powerful, global alum network in coveted positions, including at Alphabet, Harvard Business Publishing, Nike, Pfizer, and The World Bank. Join us to study full-time or part time at a pace of your choosing – in online courses or on-campus right here in New York City. Our curriculum is flexible, designed to be completed by working professionals and career pivoters, and includes many elective courses which you can choose yourself from other graduate programs across Columbia University. The electives allow you to tailor your Ivy-League experience to fit your own intellectual curiosity and career objectives. Columbia's IKNS Master of Science degree is STEM-accredited and offers International Students (F-1 visa) an opportunity for Curricular Practical Training during their studies (CPT) and 3 years of optional work experience in the US upon completing their degree (OPT). Lean more about the International Student experience and available resources here. Learn more about the IKNS degree and its impact on your career in our Fact Sheet. Download the IKNS Fact Sheet Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Information Sessions Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Upcoming Events Jun 1 M.S. in Information & Knowledge Strategy Information Session - June 1st, 2022 4:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 9 M.S. in Information and Knowledge Strategy - Admissions Office Hours (Virtual) 4:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Curriculum Application Requirements Application Deadlines Play Columbia University's IKNS Degree at a Glance In This Master’s Program, You Will... Develop essential skills in Business Analytics and Artificial Intelligence, collaboration, strategy, entrepreneurship, innovative digital product design, and change management to lead 21st-Century organizations. Understand the future of work and how to lead your organization there. Leverage mission-critical data, information, and knowledge to optimize organizational outcomes. Learn from an esteemed faculty of scholar-practitioners with deep expertise in information and data science, business administration, organizational psychology, economics, sustainability, business intelligence, market research, social media, and UI/UX. Learn how to transform organizational knowledge into marketable assets. Increase productivity by redesigning key business processes and knowledge flows. Build human networks that provide support, opportunity, and purpose. Become a better communicator, problem-solver, teammate, and leader. Apply your knowledge and hone your practical skills in a Capstone Project to help real for-profit and nonprofit organizations achieve better results. Program Features Include… An innovative curriculum that combines leading-edge theory and practical techniques relating to core leadership capabilities such as critically assessing output from data analytics, team building and executive-level decision-making. A holistic, interdisciplinary approach that values IQ and EQ and prepares graduates for leadership positions in for-profit, non-profit, and public sectors. Faculty with experience at top global organizations including Accenture, Bain & Company, Google, IBM, NASA, Microsoft, Oliver Wyman, PMI, US Navy, and the World Bank. A highly supportive educational environment with accessible faculty, personalized feedback and learning options customized to your personal and professional needs, interests, and goals. Access to a wide variety of elective courses offered by IKNS and other Columbia University graduate degree programs. A diverse and global cohort and more than 300 IKNS program alumni at organizations like ADP, American Express, BCG, Google, Harvard University Press, Goldman Sachs, Hilton Hotels, JPMorgan, Nike, Pfizer, Publicis, Thomson Reuters, United Nations, USAID, and the World Bank. Access to Columbia University’s world-class resources, career guidance, and global alumni network. Fast Facts Exceptional We offer the only Ivy League degree program in Information & Knowledge Strategy. Flexible Choose from over 75 pre-approved, online or on-campus electives from across Columbia University. Achievable Classes are offered on weeknights so you can earn a graduate degree while continuing to work full-time. Who Should Apply? Leaders and decision-makers keen to achieve positive change throughout their organizations. Mid-career professionals with demonstrated capacity for executive roles who want to develop the analytical and leadership skills pivotal to achieving their next professional milestone. Experienced executives who seek not only premier credentialing but also exposure to diverse perspectives and fluency in leading-edge practices from peers and thought leaders outside their regular networks. Entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs with the drive and resourcefulness to transform ideas into actions. Knowledge Management specialists who want to expand their horizons and enrich their practical expertise with a grounding in relevant research and the latest developments in Information Science. Apply Now Featured Students, Alumni, & Faculty View All Student Joon Young Lee, ’24SPS, IKNS, on Leveraging Knowledge Management at Hanwha Asset Management USA Lee shared his career journey in real estate investment and how to maximize team collaboration through knowledge management. Alumni When Passion Meets Opportunity: Julie Langford Co-Founds Nike’s Global Tech DEI Accelerator This milestone marks Langford’s passion and interest in DEI efforts since she joined Nike six years ago. Alumni Connecting People, Ideas, and Expertise: Danylo Jaworsky on the IKNS Program Danylo Jaworsky, alum of Columbia’s Information and Knowledge Strategy program, discusses IKNS and his career. View All Related Programs Master's Degrees Human Capital Management Apply data-driven, market-based insights to realize the full potential of people and organizations. Program Options Online, On Campus Full-time, Part-time Master's Degrees Strategic Communication Utilize strategic perspectives, critical thinking, and exceptional communication skills to inspire action. Program Options On Campus, Hybrid Full-time, Part-time Master's Degrees Technology Management Obtain the knowledge and analytical tools to improve business outcomes through the creative use of technology. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time In the News View All News School How Are Companies Defining–and Implementing–Agility? SPS master’s programs are collaborating on a multi-disciplinary agility series throughout the academic year. A Tribute to Larry Prusak, IKNS Lecturer and Father of Knowledge Management Larry started life wanting to be a professor in the history of ideas. Alumni When Passion Meets Opportunity: Julie Langford Co-Founds Nike’s Global Tech DEI Accelerator This milestone marks Langford’s passion and interest in DEI efforts since she joined Nike six years ago. View All News Connect with Us Learn more about Information and Knowledge Strategy at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 IKNS@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy