Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Executive Education Executive Education Toggle sidebar menu visibility Request Information Executive Education Programs for Individuals Overview Bioethics Strategic Communication: International Perspectives Overview Apply Schedule Faculty Fee Admissions Overview Application Process Contact Contact Us Executive Education Leaders recognize the need to be agile in an environment of constant change. Our Executive Education programs respond to this climate in a holistic way, drawing on the finest minds across disciplines honed here at Columbia and at world-class organizations. Participate in our intensive seminars and highly-focused courses to gain insights, tools, and skills that help you anticipate trends, think critically about current challenges and take a leadership role in your profession and community. Programs are designed for individuals as well as organizations. Programs for Individuals Fast Facts 24 Small number of Fortune 500 companies with female CEOs 75 Billion Devices connected to the Internet of Things by 2020 50% U.S. workforce to be millennials by 2020 Sources: Inc., Business Insider, Pew Research Center Knowledge with Impact Executive Orientation Learn with highly accomplished peers Two-Way Learning Share skills, discuss and learn with and from others Leading-Edge Topics Understand the ideas shaping your industry and others Develop Your Own Vision Integrate your profession with your personal values Scholar-Practitioner Faculty Learn from leading faculty and executives who share insights from the field Become a more dynamic leader Access tools for creating and managing strategic change Online Flexibility Convenient and easily accessible learning platform SPS News The Next Generation of Startups Three expert consultants offer their thoughts on the future of startup businesses. Student Students: Send Videos of HyFlex Life at Columbia! Send us a 15- to 30-second video showing what HyFlex learning is like on campus. Connect with Us Learn more about the Executive Education programs at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program director. Request more information Programs for Individuals Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies offers a wealth of rigorous programs in many specialties designed to accelerate professional careers. Learn more about our offerings. Learn more Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy