Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Impact By the Numbers By the Numbers Toggle sidebar menu visibility By the Numbers SPS students benefit from market-forward programs that close the gap between what employers demand and what graduates are equipped to deliver. Enhancing the Student Experience From orientation to graduation, SPS is enhancing all aspects of student life. 95% Student satisfaction rating for SPS Orientation Improving Student Outcomes SPS graduates are in demand at all levels and in all sectors of the professional world, where they advance existing fields and pioneer emerging ones. Our graduates receive highly competitive salaries and are employed above national averages. Career Outcomes Show Description The pie chart above shows that 77 percent of the Class of 2020 are employed, 2 percent are continuing their education, and 19 percent are still seeking employment. Read the full 2020 Career Outcomes Annual Report. [1] Number of graduates who have landed in any of the employment categories, plus Volunteer Service plus Active Military plus Continuing Education, divided by the number of students for whom an outcome is known Engaging Our Alumni SPS has the fastest-growing alumni base of any Columbia University graduate school. In the past year, we’ve built even closer connections with many former students through alumni events, our monthly digital newsletter, and our Alumni Advisory Council, which explores new pathways and opportunities to strengthen our community. 300,000 Active Columbia Alumni 3,000+ Active SPS Alumni Impacting Our Communities From our signature initiatives to our community partners, SPS connects students and community members with new opportunities to develop both professionally and personally. 500+ Hours of community service from SPS high school program participants 120 Students who are incarcerated that have earned college credit through SPS 70+ Scholarships awarded each year to SPS summer and college preparatory programs Growing Global Presence From Switzerland to Paris to Hong Kong and beyond, our expanding presence across the globe offers our students, faculty, and alumni cutting-edge opportunities for careers and collaboration. 61% 61% of the Class of 2020 were international students. 39% 39% of the Class of 2020 were domestic students. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy