Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Calendars Session Dates Holidays and Special Dates Registration Dates Late Registration Registration Instructions Add/Drop and Withdrawal Add/Drop and Withdrawal Instructions The dates listed below are for Summer 2022. Note that most courses are offered during Sessions A and B. For further guidance, see the Key to Course Listings. Session Dates Main Sessions Dates Session A Reading & Exam Period May 23–July 1 June 29–July 1 Session B Reading & Exam Period July 5–August 12 August 10–August 12 Summer Full Term Reading & Exam Period May 23–August 12 August 10–August 12 Holidays and Special Dates Memorial Day Holiday No classes on May 30; University closed. Memorial Day Make-Up Day: June 3. Juneteenth Observed No classes on June 20; University closed. Juneteenth Make-Up Day: June 24. Independence Day Holiday No classes on July 4; University closed. Independence Day Make-Up Day: July 8. Registration Dates These dates are for Visiting Students. All matriculated students should confirm dates and deadlines with their home advisor. Main Session Registration Dates Session A March 1–May 20 Session B March 1–July 1 Summer Full Term March 1–May 20 Late Registration Late registration, which is the same for all students, takes place during the Change of Program period of each session. For some courses, permission from the instructor may be required. A $50.00 fee will be charged during the late registration period. A $100.00 fee will be charged after the late registration period. Main Session Late Registration Dates Session A May 23–May 27 Session B July 5–July 11 Summer Full Term May 23–May 27 Registration Instructions Visiting Students Upon acceptance, registration instructions will be sent to you via your admissions email. See Details > Columbia and Barnard Students You do not need to apply for Summer courses; you may simply register. See Details > Adult & Professional Students Upon acceptance, registration instructions will be sent to you via your admissions email. See Details > Add/Drop and Withdrawal Drop with Refund Deadlines The last day to drop an individual course or withdraw for a full refund is the final day of the Change of Program Period, listed below.* Main Sessions Change of Program Period* Summer A May 23–May 27 Summer B July 5–July 11 Summer Full Term May 23–May 27 * Last day to drop a course or withdraw for full refund. You must drop any courses by the end of your registration appointment window. This is the last day for students to receive a full refund if they withdraw from the Summer Sessions by dropping all of their courses in a given session. Students may be eligible for a partial refund after this date. There is no refund for individual courses dropped after this date. Drop or Pass/Fail Deadlines The last day to drop or withdraw from an individual course (with no refund) or select Pass/Fail, listed below. The ability to withdraw from individual courses may vary by school. All matriculated students should confirm individual policies with their home advisor. SPS Students may not withdraw from individual courses. SPS students may only drop individual courses (with no refund) by the date listed below or should withdraw from the full session via the withdrawal procedures below. Last Day to Drop or Withdraw from an Individual Course or Change to Pass/Fail Session A Last day to drop a class without refund (SPS) June 20 Last day to declare P/D/F for a class (SPS) June 20 Session B Last day to drop a class without refund (SPS) August 2 Last day to declare P/D/F for a class (SPS) August 2 Session X (Summer Full Term) Last day to drop a class without refund (SPS) July 18 Last day to declare P/D/F for a class (SPS) July 18 Add/Drop and Withdrawal Instructions Visiting Students See Details > Columbia and Barnard Students See Details > Adult & Professional Students See Details > For summer faculty: Grades must be submitted within seven days after the end of your course in each session. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy