Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Office of the Dean Troy J. Eggers Dean Columbia University School of Professional Studies Read Bio Office of the Dean Toggle sidebar menu visibility Office of the Dean Troy has served Columbia with great distinction for more than two decades. Columbia University President Lee Bollinger has named Troy Eggers the next Dean of the School of Professional Studies, after serving one year as its interim dean. Read President Bollinger's Announcement Follow @Columbia_SPS on Twitter "Troy’s decades of strong leadership in positions across the University coupled with his outstanding performance as Interim Dean make him the ideal candidate to take on this role at this critical moment," wrote President Bollinger. Follow @ColumbiaSPS on Instagram Learn more about SPS's Week of Welcome. Follow Columbia SPS on LinkedIn Troy Eggers, who has served as interim head of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies for the past year, is formally appointed Dean of the school. News & Publications Faculty, Staff Instructional Design Team Presents at Online Learning Consortium's Spring 2022 Conference Team presents on student collaboration strategies to support new asynchronous Columbia Master’s programs. Faculty Dr. Len Elmore: Advocate for Gender and Racial Equality in Collegiate Athletics Dr. Len Elmore and the Knight Commission advocate for increased gender and racial equality in college sports. Sustainability Management and SIPA Team Finalists in World Bank Impact Investing Challenge A Columbia team is a finalist for the International Finance Corporation’s Impact Investing Challenge. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy