Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Certificates & Certifications Quantitative Studies for Finance Quantitative Studies for Finance Certificate Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Quantitative Studies for Finance Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Columbia Resources Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Contact Quantitative Studies for Finance Certificate The future of finance will require a strong background in mathematics and statistics to understand the algorithms and investment concepts that dominate this field. A certificate in Quantitative Studies for Finance helps prepare students for both career advancement and graduate study. This program can be completed in two semesters on a full-time basis or over six semesters on a part-time basis. Application Announcement Now accepting applications. Learn more. Information Sessions Attend a session on the Quantitative Studies for Finance Certificate Program. Dates to be announced. 89% Of CFO’s believe that the future demands a much stronger data analytical skill set 300,000 In the Global Network you join as a Columbia grad Program Options Program Options Application Requirements Course Format Time Commitment Certificate in Quantitative Studies for Finance (Part‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Part-time 24 to 30 credits in all (8-10 courses). Certificate in Quantitative Studies for Finance (Full‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Full-time 24 to 30 credits in all (8-10 courses). Who should apply: Recent graduates who wish to prepare for graduate school in a field related to finance and financial engineering. Professionals seeking a career change into a cutting-edge industry. Lifelong benefits you receive as a Columbia graduate: Access to a world-renowned system of libraries A Columbia email address Membership in a network of Columbia students, faculty and alumni Related Programs Master's Degrees Enterprise Risk Management Design and implement ERM programs to enhance all decision-making processes. Program Options Online, On Campus Full-time, Part-time Master's Degrees Technology Management Obtain the knowledge and analytical tools to improve business outcomes through the creative use of technology. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time In the News View All News Impacts and Insights Keep Learning and Keep Connecting This Spring at SPS Participate in forward-thinking events with leading academics and industry experts this Spring at SPS. Student Students: Send Videos of HyFlex Life at Columbia! Send us a 15- to 30-second video showing what HyFlex learning is like on campus. School Keep Moving Forward with Columbia Your Columbia education is unstoppable. View All News Connect with Us Learn more about the Quantitative Studies in Finance Certificate program at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program advisor. Request more information Quantitative Studies for Finance Admissions Counselor quantfinance@sps.columbia.edu Office of Admissions 212-854-9666 inquire@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy