Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Postbaccalaureate Studies Key to Course Listings Postbaccalaureate Studies Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Postbaccalaureate Studies University Courses Key to Course Listings Graduate School Preparation Events Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Policies Admitted Students Contact Key to Course Listings Courses listed on the University Courses page typically feature a combination of codes and numbers, in addition to a course title and description. Course Format Example: The Interpretation of Culture. ANTH V1002. 3 points The anthropological approach to the study of culture and human society. Using ethnographic case studies, the course explores the universality of cultural categories (social organization, economy, law, belief systems, arts, etc.) and the range of variation among human societies. Key Course Listing Description The Interpretation of Culture. Course Title ANTH An abbreviation of Academic Department or Subject Area to which the course belongs. V1002 Course Number (see explanation below) 3 point(s) Point Value 1 point=1 semester hour. All courses must be taken for credit, unless specifically noted. Explanation of Course Numbering System See the tables below for explanations of course codes/abbreviations and numbers. (Note: The first digit of the course number represents the level of the course. See second table below.) Abbreviations Prefixes Description A Architecture, Planning and Preservation BC Barnard College C Columbia College E Fu Foundation School of Enginering and Applied Science F School of General Studies G Graduate School of Arts and Sciences N Noncredit Courses P School of Public Health R School of the Arts S Summer Course U School of International and Public Affairs V Joint course with Barnard College W Other interfaculty course Numbers Number Description 0 Course that cannot be credited toward any degree 1 Introductory-level undergraduate course 2 Introductory- or intermediate-level undergraduate course 3 Advanced-level undergraduate course 4 Introductory graduate course; may be taken by advanced undergraduates with appropriate preparation 5‑8 Advanced graduate course; instructor's permission required Location of Classes Room assignments and course changes for all courses are published in the Directory of Classes. View Full Directory of Classes The University reserves the right to withdraw or modify the courses of instruction or to change the instructors as may become necessary. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy