Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Auditing Programs Auditing Programs Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Auditing Programs Course Highlights Manhattanville Course Auditing Columbia Resources Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Requirements Policies Admitted Students Auditing Programs Learning informs, enlightens and enriches our lives continuously. The Auditing Programs administered by the School of Professional Studies invite adults to join the greater Columbia University community through select Arts and Science courses in subjects such as English, literature, history, religion and philosophy. Auditors attend class on Columbia’s campus in Manhattan during the spring or fall term and participate in assigned readings or other methods of information gathering. You may take part in classroom discussions only at the discretion of the instructor. Examinations and written assignments are waived for auditors who, in turn, receive no grades or academic credit. Auditing Programs are not available during the Summer Session. Plan The University typically posts courses two to three weeks prior to the start of the fall and spring semesters. Consult the University Academic Calendar for dates. Search Browse courses available to auditors in the Columbia University Directory of Classes. Find “Auditing” in the Department Name column and select a term. Register Ensure you meet the requirements and apply. Program Options Program Details Requirements General Auditing Individuals who are interested in auditing Columbia University courses may apply for the general program. Have not recently attended high school Are not currently enrolled in a college or university Lifelong Learners Auditing Individuals 65 years of age or older who are interested in auditing courses may enroll at a discount as Lifelong Learners. Have not recently attended high school Are not currently enrolled in a college or university Are 65 years or older Manhattanville Course Auditing Local community members may apply to audit selected courses at no charge. Have not recently attended high school Are not currently enrolled in a college or university Reside in Upper Manhattan or the South Bronx Student Handbook Download the Auditors & Lifelong Learners Student Handbook Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Student Learning New York History in the Streets Mary Beth and Walter Buck share the learning opportunities they've had in Columbia University’s Lifelong Learners Program. In the News View All News Student Students: Send Videos of HyFlex Life at Columbia! Send us a 15- to 30-second video showing what HyFlex learning is like on campus. School Keep Moving Forward with Columbia Your Columbia education is unstoppable. View All News Connect with Us Learn more about Auditing Programs at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Auditing Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 auditing@sps.columbia.edu Office of Admissions 212-854-9666 inquire@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy