Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Studying Online at Columbia SPS Toggle sidebar menu visibility Studying Online at Columbia SPS Play Whether pursuing courses online or in person, School of Professional Studies students follow a rigorous Columbia University curriculum taught by world-class scholar-practitioner faculty and develop knowledge and skills they can apply immediately in the workplace. To offer maximum flexibility, students may select from a range of online course options and, on a case-by-case basis, may switch between on-campus and online study. Several of the School of Professional Studies’ master’s and certification programs can be completed fully online, while other programs can be completed in a hybrid format combining in-person and online study. Three Online Formats Synchronous Real-time study; Meets regularly for live class sessions through HD video conferencing; Students interact in real-time with the content, faculty, and their peers Hybrid A combination of in-person class time and online instruction; Students and faculty interact in a classroom and online. Asynchronous Flexible study; Features pre-recorded lectures that students access within a set time frame; Students and faculty interact online through forums and activities The Online Learning Experience with Columbia University Studying online, SPS students attend lectures, receive and submit assignments, interact with faculty and students, and build their academic and professional networks through Canvas, Columbia’s learning management system. Canvas directs students through a course and provides assistance with time management and focused study. Readings, videos, and other multimedia elements hosted on Canvas feature a rich network of University scholars and industry practitioners, lively discussion forums, and interactive activities including case studies, simulations, and group projects. Completion of an online course depends on your ability to master technology, manage time efficiently, and work in an environment conducive to online learning. The following will enable your success: Proficient in Technology Access to a computer with high-speed, reliable internet that will support streaming, interactive video, a webcam and microphone Ability to navigate a learning management system and other online tools, and to troubleshoot basic technology problems Knowledge of how to install plug-ins and course-specific software on your computer Strong Time Management Skills Can work within a firm deadline structure with the self-discipline to complete your work without frequent reminders Time to dedicate at least 10 hours per week per online course Distraction-Free Place to Study Well-lit workspace appropriate for interacting with faculty and fellow students on camera Access to your computer on a daily basis Comfortable with Online Interactions Ability to collaborate with others in an online environment Effective written communication skills A schedule that permits you to connect with your fellow students online at different times during the week Online Offerings Fully Online Master of Science Programs Expand All Applied Analytics Due to rapid innovation in data collection and processing technologies, every organization is looking for professionals who can deliver business intelligence through analytics. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Applied Analytics provides students and working professionals with in-depth knowledge of data analytics and the required leadership, management, and communication skills to impact decision making at all levels within organizations. Students can take advantage of flexible, full-time or part-time study options in-person or online. Click here to learn more. Bioethics As advances in biotechnology and biomedicine gain momentum, so do issues concerning their ethical, legal, and social implications in the United States and around the world. From stem cell research to healthcare reform, these topics involve critical dilemmas at the intersections of law, society, culture, public policy, philosophy, religion, economics, and history. The Master of Science in Bioethics grounds students in interdisciplinary approaches and models to address the most pressing bioethical challenges. The program prepares students to be responsible and responsive leaders in this new and ever-growing field. It also includes a concentration in global bioethics – the first of its kind in the U.S. Click here to learn more. Enterprise Risk Management The Master of Science in Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program at Columbia University prepares graduates to inform better risk-reward decisions by providing a complete, robust, and integrated picture of both upside and downside volatility across an entire enterprise. The program focuses on all areas of risk that impact organizations, including finance, indemnity, operations, and strategy. Graduates attain a dynamic toolkit of advanced risk management capabilities that can be applied to enhance value at both the enterprise and silo risk management levels. Graduates also develop the communication skills required to gain the stakeholder buy-in critical for successful adoption of ERM strategies. Program options are available on Columbia’s campus in New York City or online via Columbia’s interactive social learning platform. Click here to learn more. Human Capital Management Now more than ever, organizations need innovative strategies to address changing needs in talent acquisition, development, and retention, as well as critical skill shortages in the digital workplace. The Master of Science in Human Capital Management (HCM) at Columbia University prepares graduates to address any organization’s human capital challenges through data-driven, market-based insights and organization-wide integrated solutions. The goal of the program is to create world-class HCM strategists and human resource leaders who can drive individual and organizational excellence in the new world of work. Full-time and part-time options for working professionals are available. Click here to learn more. Nonprofit Management Columbia’s Master of Science in Nonprofit Management prepares graduates for leadership roles within mission-based organizations in a wide variety of contexts and sectors, including international and community nonprofits, foundations, institutions of higher education, healthcare, the arts, or as in-demand fundraising and development experts. The program reflects the growth and increasing sophistication of the nonprofit sector. It prepares graduates to be conversant with new technologies, digital media, and data analytics, as well as public/private partnerships, which are being deployed to help solve some of the most intractable problems across the globe. Click here to learn more. Certification Programs Expand All Certification in Actuarial Science Whether you are a recent graduate who is just getting started in the actuarial profession or a professional contemplating a career change, Columbia’s innovative online Actuarial Science Certification will help you build and expand your knowledge of actuarial science and provide a foundation to enter this field successfully in as few as two semesters. Click here to learn more. Certification in Bioethics Increasingly, practitioners in medicine, law, and research must understand and make decisions on complex ethical and moral dilemmas related to advances in biology, biotechnology, and biomedicine. Solutions require specialized and cross-disciplinary knowledge spanning ethics, law, society, culture, public policy, philosophy, religion, economics, history, and even language. Columbia’s non-degree, online Bioethics Certification program prepares students to address these challenges through an innovative learning experience featuring live webinars, multimedia, and collaborative course activities. Click here to learn more. Certification in Business Looking to qualify for a top graduate program? Or, as a business professional, are there disciplines and skill sets that would enhance your resume — or enable you to change careers? The Advanced Graduate Certificate in Business can bring these plans to life. You’ll acquire the insights and practices that enable you to make an impact no matter your career path. Click here to learn more. Certification in Narrative Medicine Narrative medicine is an interdisciplinary field that brings powerful narrative skills of radical listening and creativity from the humanities and the arts to address the needs of all who seek and deliver healthcare. Narrative medicine enables patients and caregivers to voice their experience, to be heard, to be recognized, and to be valued, improving the delivery of healthcare. The non-degree, online Narrative Medicine Certification of Professional Achievement program prepares health professionals, writers, and scholars to apply the skills and values of narrative understanding to improve outcomes for both patients and caregivers. Click here to learn more. Certification in Sustainable Finance The Certification in Sustainable Finance is geared to professionals with a strong interest in sustainability and finance. The program prepares students to meet the growing demand for professionals who understand and can integrate the fundamentals of both corporate sustainability and financial analysis. Click here to learn more. Master of Professional Studies Programs Expand All Wealth Management As the birthplace of value-based investment, Columbia University has long been at the forefront of the investing world. It is also home to the only wealth management graduate program in the Ivy League and the only one of its kind in the world. The goal of the Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management is to prepare the next generation of advisors who work with high-net-worth individuals, foundations, and endowments to grow and manage wealth. Students can complete coursework online along with two in-person, multi-day sessions on Columbia’s campus in New York City, the financial capital of the world. Click here to learn more. Insurance Management The Master of Professional Studies in Insurance Management provides professionals with a holistic understanding of the relationships between key functions within an insurance enterprise in order for them to implement innovative management and business development strategies. Students will learn from industry practitioners with extensive experience that spans both domestic and international business, as well as engage with a broad network of experts in the industry. Students will engage in an interactive, problem-based learning environment with their lecturers and peers with the convenience of asynchronous online instruction in this part-time program, designed for those who work full time. Click here to learn more. Hybrid Master of Science Programs Expand All Applied Analytics Due to rapid innovation in data collection and processing technologies, every organization is looking for professionals who can deliver business intelligence through analytics. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Applied Analytics provides students and working professionals with in-depth knowledge of data analytics and the required leadership, management, and communication skills to impact decision making at all levels within organizations. Students can take advantage of flexible, full-time or part-time study options in-person or online. Click here to learn more. Bioethics As advances in biotechnology and biomedicine gain momentum, so do issues concerning their ethical, legal, and social implications in the United States and around the world. From stem cell research to healthcare reform, these topics involve critical dilemmas at the intersections of law, society, culture, public policy, philosophy, religion, economics, and history. The Master of Science in Bioethics grounds students in interdisciplinary approaches and models to address the most pressing bioethical challenges. The program prepares students to be responsible and responsive leaders in this new and ever-growing field. It also includes a concentration in global bioethics – the first of its kind in the U.S. Click here to learn more. Information and Knowledge Strategy Organizations that break down silos and encourage a free flow of information thrive. Turf wars are reduced, and productivity is increased. Decisions are made based on more complete information and cross-functional input. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Information and Knowledge Strategy (IKNS) prepares leaders to bring together diverse ideas and information to optimize organizational practices and outcomes. Graduates develop essential skills in collaboration, business strategy, and change management to move knowledge-driven organizations forward. Their training translates to increased productivity and impact at all levels of organizations and across all industry, nonprofit, and government sectors. Click here to learn more. Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Conflict resolution skills can impact virtually every area of life, whether exercised between people, organizations, or governments. Columbia University’s Master of Science in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution prepares students to recognize and understand the root causes and dynamics of conflict and to resolve disputes through reasoned and resourceful negotiation. Students combine theory and applied training to develop practical models for negotiating and resolving disputes. The program’s training philosophy is grounded in a commitment to interactive, dialogue-based methods with a focus on building common ground, establishing dialogue, applying practical skills, ensuring representation and recognition, and forging relationships. Program options include full-time or part-time study on Columbia’s campus in New York City, or full-time coursework through combined online and intensive in-person study. Click here to learn more. Executive M.S. in Strategic Communication The Executive Master of Science of Strategic Communication is a 16-month graduate program designed for experienced communication professionals and for those in leadership positions across a wide range of industries having communication as a critical competency. Click here to learn more. Executive M.S. in Technology Management Columbia University’s Executive M.S. in Technology Management is in a class all its own. Each student works with an accomplished and recognized technological leader as their personal mentor. Each student selects a leading-edge focus area that matches their interests and goals, such as Digital and Business Transformation, New Business Ventures, or C-Level Management. Instructors are world-class technology leaders unparalleled in the Ivy League. Students can study online from anywhere in the world, along with regular in-person multi-day intensives in their choice of global capitals including New York or Paris. Graduates typically assume positions as CIO, CTO, CAO, COO, CEO, CSO, CDO, or as ground-breaking entrepreneurs. Click here to learn more. To see if a specific course may be offered online, and in what format, please refer to the Program Details and Courses webpages for the program you're interested in. In addition, you may also want to check the Columbia University Directory of Classes. There, course listings specify if a course is offered online in the optional “location” field. Your Resources at Columbia Online students receive ongoing course technology and instructional support, as well as access to resources open to all SPS students. Click here to learn more. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy