Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Bioethics Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Bioethics Faculty & Advisors Degrees and Courses Overview Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Curriculum Course List & Schedule Concentrations Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Dual-Degree Program (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview How to Apply Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Publications Additional Offerings & Resources Overview Executive Education Careers in Bioethics Bioethics for Premeds News & Impact Stories Events Upcoming Events CLE Events Previous Events Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Bioethics Master of Science–Online, On-Campus, and Hybrid Certification of Professional Achievement–Online and On-Campus Dual Degree–M.P.H. and M.S. Apply Now Bioethics Faculty & Advisors Degrees and Courses Overview Master of Science (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Curriculum Course List & Schedule Concentrations Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Dual-Degree Program (Full-Time or Part-Time) Overview How to Apply Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Non-Credit Courses Publications Additional Offerings & Resources Overview Executive Education Careers in Bioethics Bioethics for Premeds News & Impact Stories Events Upcoming Events CLE Events Previous Events Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Twitter Listen to our Podcast Search terms Shape decisions that will dictate the future of healthcare and biotechnology. As advances in biotechnology and biomedicine gain momentum, so do issues concerning their ethical, legal, and social implications in the United States and around the world. From stem cell research to healthcare reform, these topics involve critical dilemmas at the intersections of law, society, culture, public policy, philosophy, religion, economics, and history. The Master of Science in Bioethics grounds students in interdisciplinary approaches and models to address the most pressing bioethical challenges. The program prepares students to act as responsible and responsive leaders in this new and ever-growing field. It also includes a concentration in global bioethics – the first of its kind in the U.S. Columbia's Bioethics program offers a range of degrees and courses. Meet our Faculty Meet our distinguished faculty, advisory board, and other affiliates. Meet Our Students Read impact stories featuring Bioethics students, alumni, and faculty. Preview Courses & Concentrations Review our curriculum, courses and schedules, and concentration areas. Play In the News All News Faculty, Knowledge Base, Staff Pet Cloning Is Possible, But Should It Be Done? To clone or not to clone, an emotional yet ethical dilemma. Faculty Dr. Robert Klitzman Contributes to a New York Times Discussion on the Stigma Surrounding Mental Health Treatment for Doctors In a New York Times Letter to the Editor, Dr. Klitzman responds to an important article on mental health care for doctors. Faculty Dr. Robert Klitzman Interviewed by NBC on Ohio Doctor Murder Case Bioethics program director Dr. Robert Klitzman Interviewed on NBC All News Upcoming Events All Upcoming Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 14 Columbia University Masters of Bioethics Program Alumni Panel 7:15 pm EDT Public Event Jun 15 Learn More About Columbia University's M.S. and CPA in Bioethics 6:00 pm EDT Online Info Session All Upcoming Events Application Process Lecture: Why Bioethics Matters Application Deadlines Degrees & Course Offerings Events Additional Offerings & Resources Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni All News & Impact Stories Faculty Bioethics Lecturer Harriet A. Washington Challenges the Medical Community to Shift the Narrative About Race and Research Washington author of Medical Apartheid, and winner of the National Book Critics’ Circle award, teaches Race & Bioethics. Alumni Bioethics M.S. Alumna Dr. Marie-Julie Trahan: Paused Her Five-Year Residency To Earn An M.S. in Bioethics From Columbia Don’t hesitate to deviate from the standard career path, says the Bioethics alumna. Alumni Dr. Naila Ramji: Integrating Bioethics into Maternal-Fetal Medicine Dr. Ramji discussed her time in the Bioethics program and how she applies her degree daily in her profession. All News & Impact Stories Voices in Bioethics Read student submissions in the Voices in Bioethics online journal, featuring opinions, scholarship, and news in the evolving fields of bio-sciences, medicine, and public health. Speak with the Director Learn more about the Bioethics program and how you can enroll this fall. Connect with Us Learn more about Bioethics at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Suzanne Wolfinger, MBA, M.Ed., Ed.D., Assistant Director, Recruitment and Admissions 212-854-9666 sw3441@columbia.edu Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 bioethics@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy