Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Certificates & Certifications Psychology Psychology Certificate Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Psychology Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum & Courses Columbia Resources Impact Stories Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Contact Psychology Certificate The Certificate in Psychology is a rigorous curriculum for students who are preparing for graduate study, but who did not major in the subject as undergrads. The program prepares students to advance their academic careers by providing the type of coursework that top graduate programs require, including research experience. The program provides valuable preparation for Psy.D. and Ph.D. programs, including psychology, education, management, public health, and social work. The Certificate can be completed in two semesters of full-time study, or longer, depending on your schedule. Application Announcement Now accepting applications. Learn more. 2 Opportunities for supervised research 14% Demand increase for psychologists through 2026* *Bureau of Labor Statistics, BLS Psychologists Program Details Certificate Options Application Requirements Course Format Time Commitment Certificate in Psychology (Part‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Part-time options are available. 28 credits in all (7 courses). Certificate in Psychology (Full‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Can be completed in as little as two years. 28 credits in all (7 courses). Valuable preparation for Psy.D. and Ph.D. programs, including psychology, education, management, public health, and social work. Who should apply: Recent graduates who wish to prepare for graduate school in a field related to psychology. Professionals seeking a career change into a cutting-edge industry. Lifelong benefits you receive as a Columbia graduate: Access to a world-renowned system of libraries A Columbia email address Membership in a network of Columbia students, faculty and alumni International Students: Qualifies students on an F1 Visa to apply for Optional Practical Training (OPT) upon completion of the certificate. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Alumni Lydia Roberts: From Health Care PR to a Clinical Psychology Ph.D. with the help of SPS Lydia Roberts, '20SPS, leveraged her work in the Psychology Certificate program to pursue a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology. Student Postbaccalaureate Students Present Research Poster at Society for Personality and Social Psychology’s Annual Convention in New Orleans Their research poster was titled "Assessing the Role of Psychological Reactivity in the Somatization of Stress." Student International Student Sophia Armand Gains New Opportunities in Psychology International student Sophia Armand leaves Denmark for New York and lands opportunities in Columbia's psychology research labs. Related Programs Master's Degrees Narrative Medicine Transform personal stories into better experiences and outcomes for both patients and caregivers. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Master's Degrees Bioethics Use interdisciplinary approaches to analyze and address the most pressing bioethical challenges. Program Options Online, On Campus, Hybrid Full-time, Part-time In the News View All News Student Students: Send Videos of HyFlex Life at Columbia! Send us a 15- to 30-second video showing what HyFlex learning is like on campus. School Keep Moving Forward with Columbia Your Columbia education is unstoppable. Student Postbaccalaureate Students Present Research Poster at Society for Personality and Social Psychology’s Annual Convention in New Orleans Their research poster was titled "Assessing the Role of Psychological Reactivity in the Somatization of Stress." View All News Connect with Us Learn more about Psychology at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Psychology Admissions Counselor psychology@sps.columbia.edu Office of Admissions 212-854-9666 inquire@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy