Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Construction Administration Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Construction Administration Faculty & Advisors Industry Experts Student Association and Fellows Full-Time Master of Science Overview Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Part-Time Master of Science Overview Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Curriculum & Courses Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Events Upcoming Events Previous Events News & Press Releases Research & Publications Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Construction Administration Master of Science Apply Now Construction Administration Faculty & Advisors Industry Experts Student Association and Fellows Full-Time Master of Science Overview Curriculum & Courses Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Part-Time Master of Science Overview Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Curriculum & Courses Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Events Upcoming Events Previous Events News & Press Releases Research & Publications Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Play Shaping our built environment. Cities and towns are experiencing an unprecedented level of transformation. The New York metro area alone is currently constructing some of the largest and most advanced commercial, housing, and infrastructure projects in the nation. There has never been a greater need—or opportunity—for leaders in the burgeoning field of construction management. Columbia’s Master of Science in Construction Administration program prepares graduates for a variety of careers at the forefront of construction and project leadership. Graduates develop rewarding careers with some of the world's most respected architecture, engineering, and construction firms, entrusted with delivering some of the most impactful projects of our time. Learn how students and graduates of the M.S. in Construction Administration are advancing knowledge with purpose in the 2020 Construction Careers Outcomes Report. Download the 2020 Construction Careers Outcomes Report Information Sessions Information sessions and other events will be announced. Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Fast Facts #1 Columbia University’s M.S. in Construction Administration Program was ranked #1 of 25 Best Master’s in Construction Management programs by Great Business Schools. Opportunity Top employers of graduates include the Port Authority of NY & NJ, MTA, AECOM, Tishman, and Turner. Trends Construction of green buildings has seen a sustained, sharp increase worldwide. Program Options Program Option Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) At least 2-3 years industry experience, family business experience, or strong internship experience On-campus* 3-4 terms Capstone Project Master of Science (part‑time) At least 2-3 years industry experience, family business experience, or strong internship experience On-campus* 6-10 terms Capstone Project * Some business courses are available online as pre-approved electives. M.S. Application Requirements M.S. Application Deadlines Faculty Featured Students, Faculty and Alumni Alumni Andis Woodlief Adds Diversity to NYC's Construction Industry Andis Woodlief became diversity director for Tutor Perini, a leading construction firm. Faculty Zair Cheema: “You Cannot Get Bored in This Industry” The Construction Administration lecturer discusses his career journey, NYC resilience and the post-COVID future of built space. Faculty Sustainability After COVID-19: Never Let a Good Crisis Go to Waste The M.S. in Construction Administration and WSP explore the post-pandemic future of sustainability in the built environment. In the News View All News Alumni, Impacts and Insights, In the Community Construction Administration M.S. Alumna Andis Woodlief Named DEI Director At AMFP Take advantage of Columbia’s alumni network, says Woodlief. 2021 Construction Administration Career Outcomes Report Construction Administration graduates, what’s next? A Visit To JFK Columbia’s Construction Administration Student Association visits JFK Terminal 8. View All News Upcoming Events Jun 8 Program Team Spotlight: Meet the M.S. in Construction Administration's Program Team 12:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 20 Construction Technology Symposium: Crypto, NFT's, & Real Estate 5:00 pm EDT SPS Event View All Upcoming Events View Previous Events Connect with Us Learn more about Construction Administration at Columbia University's School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 construction@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admission to our programs is highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy