Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate School Preparation Postbaccalaureate Studies Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Postbaccalaureate Studies University Courses Key to Course Listings Graduate School Preparation Events Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Policies Admitted Students Contact Graduate School Preparation Planning for graduate-level study? The Graduate School Preparation Track in the Postbaccalaureate Studies program will add impact to your application. Working in tandem with an academic advisor, you will design your own curriculum, complete academic prerequisites, and take courses that challenge and inspire you. Successfully completing a program of study at Columbia translates into strong proof of your potential as a scholar. Looking for Graduate Foundations? You’ve found it! Graduate Foundations has become the Graduate School Preparation Track within Postbaccalaureate Studies. GSP students have access to the same academic advising, course offerings, and university resources as were available to Graduate Foundations students. Application Announcement Now accepting applications. Learn more Information Sessions Attend an information session on Columbia’s many program options. Dates to be announced. 1:1 Work one-on-one with your advisor to tailor your program 100 + Disciplines available in this program 100s Of individual courses to choose from University Resources You will join the cohort and community of Columbia students and faculty, and gain access to the Writing Center, a world-renowned system of libraries, and other facilities and resources available to Columbia degree candidates. You can see a comprehensive list of available resources here. Who Should Apply Students planning for graduate school who: Need to complete prerequisite courses Wish to enhance their application with rigorous coursework Want to transition back into academia at their own pace Attention: Pre-Med Students Postbaccalaureate Studies through SPS may be most valuable to individuals who have already completed most pre-med classes and only need to take a few more classes to fulfill requirements. Students have the ability to customize a program of study to meet their individual needs. Each semester, SPS welcomes students taking classes across Math, Statistics, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Physics and Psychology for this purpose. Students seeking an exclusive pre-med program with in-built medical school advising may want to consider the Postbac Premed Program at the Columbia University School of General Studies. Graduate School Preparation Track Counselor: David Taylor-Tumilty Schedule an Appointment 212-854-9666 postbacc [[at]] sps [[dot]] columbia [[dot]] edu Related Programs Certificates & Certifications Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Certificate Advance knowledge of the environmental sciences and prepare for graduate study or careers in related fields. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Certificates & Certifications Psychology Certificate Valuable preparation for Psy.D. and Ph.D. programs, including psychology, education, management, public health, and social work Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Certificates & Certifications Quantitative Studies for Finance Certificate For students with a background in mathematics and statistics who desire advanced degrees in finance and financial engineering Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Related Programs Certificates & Certifications Classics Certificate Advance knowledge of ancient Greek and Latin and prepare for graduate-level study or a career change Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Student Celine Fort: Carving a Pathway to a Master’s Through Graduate Foundations' HyFlex Coursework "I value being surrounded by people, so HyFlex is really helping now that everyone is isolated." Connect with Us Learn more about Graduate Foundations at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program advisor. Request more information Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy