Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Sports Management Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Sports Management Faculty & Staff Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events Students & Alumni The CUSP Show Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Sports Management In a League of Our Own. Build Your Story Today. Your Columbia. Your City. Your Faculty. Your Curriculum. Apply Now Sports Management Faculty & Staff Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events Students & Alumni The CUSP Show Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Listen to our Podcast Search terms Why Columbia? In a League of Our Own. Your Columbia. Earn a degree from one of the top universities in the world. Your City. Expand your network through direct access to industry events, gatherings, panels, and speakers, drawing on the abundant resources of our faculty, Columbia University, and New York City – the center of the Sports Universe. Your Faculty. Learn from successful industry practitioners and leaders in all areas of the sports industry. Your Curriculum. Acquire practical, leading-edge, market-influenced strategies and skills through a best-in-class curriculum in areas including digital sports media, sports analytics, business intelligence, sports entrepreneurship and innovation, global sports management, sports marketing, athlete activism & social justice, finance, sponsorship sales and activation, negotiations, facility and event management, sports law and ethics, and intercollegiate athletics. Your Story. Read how our network of faculty, students, and alumni are forging diverse career paths and changing the game across the sports industry. Play New York City: The center of the sports universe. Columbia University is home to the only sports management graduate program in the Ivy League. The Master of Science in Sports Management features a leading-edge, market-influenced curriculum along with unparalleled access to sports industry leaders and experts. The program takes advantage of Columbia’s New York City setting by providing extensive industry networking, internship, and employment opportunities across a wide variety of sports. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Impacts and Insights, Student Impact Story: Cameron Morris Morris is pursuing a Sports Management master’s degree to get his foot in the door and jump-start his career. Student Student Erika Dy: "You Cannot Take Enough Classes Here." Dy enrolled in the Sports Management program for a deeper educational dive into the industry she was already working in. Alumni How Alum Lyle Adams Merged His Tech Career with His Passion for Sports Today, he is the CEO of Spry, a digital platform for the NCAA and student-athletes to work through NIL rights. Alumni “A Network of a Lifetime:” Javonty Hunter Credits Sports Management & HBCU Fellowship with Helping to Kick Start His Career The Sports Management alum is now translating his degree and sports finance internships into a career in wealth management. Student Jackson Donahue: From D1 Athlete to the Business Side of Sports Jackson Donahue wants to equip himself with the right level of knowledge as he starts his career. Student Leda Strong: Using Sports as a Vehicle for Change Leda Strong is looking to move the needle on social justice and wants to work at the intersection of sports and social good. All Impact Stories Podcast Subscribe to The CUSP Show — the Columbia University Sports Management Podcast — with faculty members and hosts Joe Favorito and Tom Richardson as they discuss a wide array of topics with thought leaders from across the sports industry. The show is produced by the Columbia University Sports Management program's staff. Information Sessions & Events Jun 1 Conversations with Faculty 4:00 pm EDT Online Info Session Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 21 Online Information Session: M.S. in Sports Management 11:00 am EDT Online Info Session Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about the application deadlines. Information Sessions See the upcoming Information Sessions & Events section above. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Fast Facts Growth The value of the North American professional sports industry is projected to increase to over $83.1 billion by 2023 (PwC Sports Outlook, 2021). Opportunity Students complete internships and special projects with organizations including the NFL, NBA, MLB, NHL, FC Bayern Munich, and ESPN. Access Columbia University’s location in the center of the sports world leads to abundant opportunities in the field of Sports Management. Program Options Program Option Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) Professional experience or interest in the sports industry On-Campus 1-1½ years Internship or Integrative Project Master of Science (part‑time) Professional experience or interest in the sports industry On-campus 2-4 years Internship or Integrative Project In the News Faculty Dr. Len Elmore: Advocate for Gender and Racial Equality in Collegiate Athletics Dr. Len Elmore and the Knight Commission advocate for increased gender and racial equality in college sports. Faculty, Impacts and Insights Sports Management Lecturer Russell Scibetti Emphasizes Analytics in Sports Education Scibetti advises sports management students to have a command of analytics to gain a competitive advantage for future careers. Sports Management Students Take Second Place in SportsPro Hackathon 2022 The team originated an effective circular model to reduce textile waste in the sports industry and promote sustainability. View All News Speak with the Program Learn more about Sports Management at Columbia University's School of Professional Studies or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 Sports@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admission to our program is highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy