Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Certificates & Certifications Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Certificate Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Faculty & Advisors Curriculum & Courses Columbia Resources Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Contact Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Certificate The Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Certificate (E3B) is a rigorous program that advances students’ knowledge of the environmental sciences, allowing them to prepare for highly competitive graduate programs or pivot to environmental biology or ecology-related careers. E3B’s curriculum provides college graduates who did not major in environmental biology the type of academic experience that highly competitive graduate programs require. The part-time program’s flexible schedule allows students to advance their education at their preferred pace. A limited number of competitive research grants are available that can provide up to $1,000 per student for independent lab or field research. New York City-based institutions offer research opportunities in affiliation with the E3B program. Application Announcement Now accepting applications. Learn more. $1,000 Of potential grant funding for independent lab/field research 300,000 In the Global Network you join as a Columbia grad Advance knowledge of the environmental sciences and prepare for graduate study or careers in related fields. Who should apply: Recent graduates who wish to prepare for graduate school in a field related to ecology and/or environmental biology. Professionals seeking a career change into a purposeful and dynamic career. International Students: This Certificate program does not qualify for an F-1 student visa. International students who seek a full-time program should review other programs available through Columbia SPS. Added benefits: Small class sizes allow for individualized attention Students will be able to conduct research under the mentorship of departmental faculty Program Details Certificate Options Application Requirements Course Format Time Commitment Certificate in Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology (Part‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent Designed to be part-time, with students completing the certificate in four to eight terms (including summers). 9 courses in total. Certificate in Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology (Full‑Time) Bachelor’s or equivalent If started in the summer term, the program can be completed in three intensive terms (one calendar year) on a full-time or near full-time basis. 9 courses in total. Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Student Peter Lichtenthal: How the E3B Program Inspired the Pursuit of Graduate Work in Conservation "The classes ended up being extremely rewarding in helping me flesh out what I wanted to do." Student Alyssa Ramirez: Finding a Path at the Intersection of Environmental Science and Policy Alyssa Ramirez grew her skills with an Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Certificate at SPS. Next up: an MPA at SIPA. Related Programs Master's Degrees Bioethics Use interdisciplinary approaches to analyze and address the most pressing bioethical challenges. Program Options Online, On Campus, Hybrid Full-time, Part-time Master's Degrees Narrative Medicine Transform personal stories into better experiences and outcomes for both patients and caregivers. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time In the News View All News Impacts and Insights Keep Learning and Keep Connecting This Spring at SPS Participate in forward-thinking events with leading academics and industry experts this Spring at SPS. Student Students: Send Videos of HyFlex Life at Columbia! Send us a 15- to 30-second video showing what HyFlex learning is like on campus. School Keep Moving Forward with Columbia Your Columbia education is unstoppable. View All News Connect with Us Learn more about the Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Certificate program at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program advisor. Request more information Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Admissions Counselor EEEB@sps.columbia.edu Office of Admissions 212-854-9666 inquire@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy