Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility Actuarial Science Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Actuarial Science Faculty & Advisors Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Search terms Actuarial Science Master of Science Certification of Professional Achievement Apply Now Actuarial Science Faculty & Advisors Full-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Part-Time Master of Science Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Curriculum Courses Professional Development Admissions Overview & Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Certification of Professional Achievement Overview Tuition & Financing Overview Financial Resources Courses Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Credentials Verification Policies Admitted Students Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Impact Stories Columbia Resources Contact Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on YouTube Search terms Join a distinguished community of actuarial leaders. The Master of Science in Actuarial Science program at Columbia University is internationally renowned for its breakthrough curriculum and esteemed faculty. The program equips students with the tools, skills, and knowledge to excel in today’s rapidly evolving actuarial and related workplaces, with a course of study designed to anticipate and exceed industry needs. Students are prepared to assume leadership positions and meet ever expanding opportunities. Columbia’s location in New York City, the financial and actuarial capital of the world, allows students access to the world’s foremost practitioners and leaders. The program's academic rigor greatly benefits from partners and advisors in the Actuarial Science Academic Committee (ASAC). ASAC members are professors across Columbia University's Statistics Department, the Engineering School, and the School of Professional Studies. ASAC steers the program's academic affairs, including curriculum and faculty recruitment. Learn more about the program in the Actuarial Science Fact Sheet. Download the Fact Sheet M.S. Application Requirements M.S. Application Deadlines Professional Development Courses & Events Fast Facts #3 The program is ranked #3 worldwide for the best master's program in actuarial science and ranked #6 for best master's program in insurance, risk management, and actuarial science by Eduniversal (2019). 24% The employment of actuaries in the U.S. is expected to increase 24% by 2030 compared to an 8% growth average for all occupations (Bureau of Labor Statistics). Program Options Program Options Required Experience Course Formats Time Commitment Master of Science (full‑time) Knowledge of elementary economics, linear algebra, and multivariate calculus On-campus 3 semesters Master of Science (part‑time) Knowledge of elementary economics, linear algebra, and multivariate calculus On-campus Up to 3 years Certification of Professional Achievement Strong academic record in mathematics, statistics, economics or quantitative studies Online 2 semesters Featured Faculty, Students and Alumni View All Faculty Students Should Explore Different Applications of Actuarial Science, Advises Actuarial Science Lecturer Tonya Manning The Buck Wealth Practice Leader and Chief Actuary brings thirty years of experience to Columbia classrooms. Alumni How Columbia's Global Alumni Network Furthered Mingke Du’s Career “The program has a huge alumni network in China…more than 50 of them are actively involved in our social events.” Alumni Eric Huang: Columbia’s Actuarial Science M.S. Program was Key to Passing SOA Exams "Actuarial Models [was] definitely more difficult than the exam itself," says Eric, now an Actuarial Analyst at The Hartford. View All In the News View All News Faculty Students Should Explore Different Applications of Actuarial Science, Advises Actuarial Science Lecturer Tonya Manning The Buck Wealth Practice Leader and Chief Actuary brings thirty years of experience to Columbia classrooms. Impacts and Insights 8 International Students Reflect on the Job Preparation Process We asked Actuarial Science, Applied Analytics, ERM, and Technology Management students and alumni how they secured U.S. jobs. School 2021 SPS Graduation Ceremony’s Student Speaker and Graduate Marshals The Class of 2021 Student Speaker Leda Strong will address the graduating class during the SPS Virtual Graduation Ceremony. View All News Application Timeline Now accepting applications. Learn more about application deadlines. Information Sessions Find out about upcoming information sessions and other events. Sign Up for Updates Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Upcoming Events Jun 14 Learn About The Career Design Lab 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Jun 22 Student Financial Services Webinar 9:00 am EDT Online Info Session Connect with Us Learn more about Actuarial Science at Columbia University School of Professional Studies, or contact the program admissions counselor. Request more information Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 actuarial@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Requirements Institutions providing distance education are required to provide certain general disclosures for educational programs, regardless of modality, that prepare students for professional licensure or certification. The required information relates to whether or not the educational program meets the requirements for professional licensure or certification in all other states. Where applicable, an institution must also indicate when such a determination cannot be made. Professional licensure and certification requirements may vary state to state. This information is also subject to change. Students should contact the appropriate licensing or certification agency for his or her home state to obtain the most up to date information. Actuarial Science The School of Professional Studies Actuarial Science program prepares students for the associate actuarial certification examinations of Society of Actuaries and Casualty Actuarial Society and thereby does meets the academic requirements for certification in all 50 states. Date of Last Revision: July 2020 Apply We encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Request Information Stay in the know with updates sent straight to your inbox. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy