Skip navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Students Student Life SPS Graduation & University Commencement Students Toggle sidebar menu visibility Students Meet the Leadership Team Student Life Overview Meet the Team New Student Orientation Overview Master's Orientation Schedule Non-Degree Orientation Schedule New Student Virtual Workshops SPS Graduation & University Commencement Eligibility Graduation Details Graduate Checklist Guest Details Ceremony Recordings Ceremony FAQs Columbia Residential & Off-Campus Housing Student Government Student Organizations SPS Engage SPS Gets Out the Vote Overview Voter Resources Non-Voter Resources Speaker Series Veterans Resources Student Advising Overview Meet our Advising Team Who is My Advisor? Course Registration Overview Registration Instructions Cross-Registration After Registration Tuition & Finance Overview Dropping Courses Financial Aid and Scholarships Overview External Funding Opportunities Overview Master of Science Programs All Academic Programs Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Academic Policies & Procedures Overview Adding/Dropping Courses Advanced Standing & Course Waivers Audit Policy Distance Education Students Examinations Grades Leaves of Absence Overview Returning from a Leave of Absence Satisfactory Academic Progress Transcripts Visa Information for International Students Withdrawing MS/MPS Degree Conferral & Graduation MS/MPS Degree Conferral & Graduation Certification & Certificate Completion Forms Academic Support Overview Meet the Team Academic Resource Center Academic Integrity & Community Standards Student Wellness Overview Meet the Team Wellness Resources SPS Student Emergency Fund How to Report a Student of Concern Emergency & Crisis Response Career Design Lab Overview Who is My Career Coach? Career Services & Programs CDL Podcast Career Journey Resources Overview Self-Assessment Career Transitions Employer & Industry Research Informational Interviews Resume Cover Letter Pitch LinkedIn Networking Job Search Interviews Negotiation International Students Veterans Disability Career Resources LGBTQ+ Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Premium Subscriptions CDL Calendar of Events Overview UNICC & Columbia SPS Think-a-Thon Global Career Week e-Mentor Program Virtual China Career Fair Executive Case Series (ECS) - Fall 2020 Executive Case Series (ECS)—Spring 2021 Employers: Hire SPS Students and Alumni SPS Faculty & Administrators: Ways to Engage with CDL Meet the Career Design Lab Staff & Interns Career Outcomes Data Alumni Career Services FAQs Share Your Experience Events Overview Climate Careers Symposium Leading Towards Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Contact Us SPS Graduation & University Commencement Graduation Eligibility Columbia University provides eligibility parameters for participation in graduation-related events. This ensures that students are completing degree requirements and participating in accordance with University policy. May 2022 Ceremony Eligibility The May 2022 SPS Graduation is intended to celebrate the accomplishments of those students with a degree conferral date of October 2021, February 2022, and May 2022. The Master's degree is conferred upon a student who has satisfactorily fulfilled the requirements of the School of Professional Studies and the program. Each program sets forth the specific requirements for the degree, in addition to the School’s standards of satisfactory performance and progress. These standards are described in materials published by the School. To receive a diploma, students must fill out an Application for Degree and email it to diplomas [[at]] columbia [[dot]] edu. Additionally, Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To that end, all graduates, visiting alumni and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status in order to attend in-person graduation and Commencement events this May. Vaccination cards will be checked upon entry to all outdoor and indoor venues. Application for Degree Additionally, this year, we are happy to announce that students with a planned degree conferral date of October 2022 (those finishing classes in summer 2022) will also be permitted to participate in the May 2022 ceremonies under the following circumstances: Students must register for their final courses, fulfilling all degree requirements, to be completed during summer 2022. Once registered for final coursework, students must receive approval from their academic advisor to participate in the May 2022 ceremony. All approval requests must be submitted prior to Monday, March 28, 2022, at 5:00 p.m. EST. Once approved, students will receive an email with instructions to register for graduation. October 2022 conferrals must still register before the school-wide deadline in order to participate in their ceremony. Students approved to walk in their graduation ceremony are also eligible to participate in University Commencement. Please note: Students who fail to register for summer courses or who are not an anticipated October 2022 degree conferral will not be permitted to participate in the May 2022 ceremonies. View full ceremony details here Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy