Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics english language programs English Language Programs American Language Program Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information English Language Programs American Language Program Overview Intensive English Program Overview Intensive Academic English Program Advanced Academic Preparation (Summer) Online English Courses Part-Time English Courses Overview Academic Writing Listening and Speaking Pronunciation Business English Course Winter Cultural Course Apply to the ALP Overview Apply for your Visa Levels, Testing, Placement and Promotion Overview Levels Testing Placement Promotion Student Resources Overview Advising Dining Health Information Housing Language Exchange Program Policies Student Life Withdrawal About the ALP Overview Accreditation How We Teach Our Mission Faculty and Staff Special Admission Courses for Columbia Students Overview Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students Advanced Academic Writing for International Students (GS) Advanced English for MA Thesis Writing English for Advanced Legal Study English for Professional Purposes: International and Public Affairs English for SIPA (U6950) International Teachers Fellows Testing & Training Student Visa & Immigration Information Contact Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Secondary Breadcrumbs English Language Programs American Language Program Study English at an Ivy League University The ALP offers a unique educational experience: an expert faculty, with many years of teaching experience a rigorous curriculum one of the oldest English language programs in the U.S. Studying at Columbia ALP was the best investment I've ever made." Orlando Ferrand, Chile Program Options The American Language Program can help you achieve your English language goals. Find the course that is right for you. Course Details Hours per week Course Length Intensive Academic English Program Full-time instruction Pre-intermediate to advanced level A2-C2 CEFR 18 14 weeks Fall and Spring 4, 8 or 12 weeks Summer Learn More Advanced Academic Preparation Rigorous pre-university academic preparation Advanced level B2.2-C2 18 8 weeks Summer Learn more English for Professional Purposes: Business For business professionals and pre-MBA students Advanced level B2.2-C2 18 3-weeks Summer Learn more Winter Institute New York cultural experience + English Intermediate to Advanced level B1-C2 15 – classroom instruction 12 – project-based field trips 2 weeks January Learn more Online English Course Part-time remote instruction Intermediate to advanced level B1.2-C2 12 7 weeks Fall & Spring 4 weeks Summer Learn more Part‑Time English Courses: Writing, Listening & Speaking, Pronunciation For Columbia students, affiliates and local residents Advanced level B2-C2 4.5 - 8.5 (depending on the course) 14 weeks Fall and Spring Learn more Advanced Academic English for Graduate Students For admitted Columbia graduate students Advanced level 18 6 weeks Summer Learn more Watch our Information Session Play ALP Activities and Columbia Events It's so much more than English. Whether online or in-person, community is very important at the ALP. We plan activities, events and workshops to help you make friends, practice English and get to know the city. As a Columbia student you also have full access to student clubs and University events. There's always something happening! Check out our Student Life page to find out more, including our Language Exchange Program. ALP Levels, Placement & Testing Find out about our levels Student F1 Visa Information Immigration information and links ALP Student Handbook Everything you need to know about the ALP Learn more about the history and mission of the American Language Program Play 450 Combined years of English-teaching experience among ALP faculty 1500 Average number of students who take ALP classes yearly 70 Different nationalities in our program in the last 4 years Featured Faculty, Students and Alumni Alumni How Alumna MinJi Koo Transitioned from Law to Journalism with Columbia’s American Language Program Now an Associate Producer at VICE, MinJi Koo says Columbia's ALP was a key part of her transition from law to journalism. Alumni How Columbia’s ALP Helped this Student to Pursue a Ph.D. in Culture Studies, Make Friends, and Explore NYC’s Rich Arts & Cultural Scene "The ALP not only provides English courses but also immerses you in the culture of this country," says Xiaolin Sun Student Kuniko Sakai: Stuck at Home During the Pandemic, But Sharpening English Language Skills One Virtual ALP Class at a Time "I was impressed that the teachers had created such a high-quality online class in such a short period of time." In the News Faculty, Staff ALP and Career Design Lab Present at UPCEA UPCEA is the leading association for administrators focused on professional, continuing and online education. Lecturers Christopher W. Collins and Brittany Ober Co-Chair ALP Winter Conference ALP hosted its annual Winter Conference on February 26, 2022. Faculty ALP Lecturer Babi Kruchin Awarded a Provost Grant for Innovative Course Module Design Kruchin shares thoughts about experimenting with two new classroom practices while teaching Academic Writing. Connect with Us Learn more about American Language Program at Columbia University, or contact the program advisor. Request more information Joel Chaffee, Assistant Director of ALP Admissions 212-854-3584 alp@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our programs are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more Commission on English Language Accreditation Columbia University American Language Program Intensive English Program is accredited by the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation (CEA) for the period August 2019 through August 2029 and agrees to uphold the CEA Standards for English Language Programs and Institutions. CEA is recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a nationally recognized accrediting agency for English language programs and institutions in the U.S. For further information about this accreditation, please contact the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation, 1001 N. Fairfax St., Suite 630, Alexandria, VA 22314, (703) 665-3400, https://cea-accredit.org/. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy