Apply now MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Home About Overview Information Sessions Accelerated Program Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Contact Us Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financing International Students Admission FAQs Curriculum Integrative Sustainability Management Case Studies Capstone Workshop Economics and Quantitative Analysis Physical Dimensions of Sustainability Public Policy and Sustainability General and Financial Management Accelerated Program Students Student Resources Orientation Courses and Registration Admitted Student Resources Faculty Advisor Bios Student Community Prospective Students Alumni Careers Certifications Sustainability Analytics Sustainable Finance (On-campus & Online) Sustainable Water Management More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. ▼ IMPORTANT DATES CERTIFICATION OF PROFESSIONAL ACHIEVEMENT IN SUSTAINABLE FINANCE ON-CAMPUS & ONLINE OPTIONS The Certification in Sustainable Finance prepares students to meet the growing demand for professionals who understand and can integrate the fundamentals of both corporate sustainability and financial analysis. Courses cover the special risks and opportunities revealed by the integration of environmental, social, and governance factors in capital markets, innovative financing methods to fund the transition to a global low-carbon economy, sustainable project and infrastructure finance, responsible and impact investing, green and carbon accounting, and environmental markets. "The move to a low-carbon economy challenges conventional investment wisdom, compelling investors to refine and redefine their investment strategies. Sustainable Finance is a hands on program that offers next generation solutions to today's most pressing challenges. It equips students to demonstrate how investments in sustainability driven businesses lead to improved financial performance and create a resilient long-term investment portfolio." - Dazzle Bhujwala, M.S. Sustainability Management, 2018 Students will learn traditional financial and accounting tools supplemented with sustainability-specific methods and topics. The certification program equips graduates with the practical information and tools they need to understand the impact of environmental sustainability in corporate financial management and in financial markets, and to enable them to prepare for and manage the consequences of both. The certification comprises courses that cover concepts at the intersection of sustainability and financial management, such as sustainability economics, investment, accounting, risk management, and communication. Students will gain a foundation in the core concepts of corporate finance and an understanding of the sustainability drivers in finance. Students will also learn to analyze the non-financial metrics of businesses. The Certification may be taken as a complement to other graduate degree programs, including the Master of Science in Sustainability Management, or it can be taken as a stand-stand-alone program. FACULTY Course instructors include both expert faculty and practitioners, who are leaders in the fields of sustainable finance, economics, accounting, corporate sustainability, and environmental markets, and risk management. STUDENTS The Certification in Sustainable Finance is geared to professionals with a strong interest in sustainability and finance. The Certification is well-suited to practitioners in one or both of these areas, who desire formal training in sustainable finance, but also to professionals who aspire to enter this field. The certification is applicable to industries such energy, financial services, real estate development, technology, transportation, and utilities. CURRICULUM Courses are offered in the evening on the Columbia University campus to accommodate the schedules of students working full-time. Beginning in Fall 2020, students may also opt to complete the certification primarily online, along with a multi-day residency in New York. Click here to listen to an information session discussing the new Online Sustainable Finance Certification option. The certification can be completed through part-time or full-time enrollment. Students enrolled on a part-time basis can complete the certification requirement in as many as four semesters. Students enrolled on a full-time basis can complete the certification requirements in one semester. The Sustainable Finance Certification requires the successful completion of four courses, or 12 points, from the following course offerings. Sustainable Finance* Financing the Clean Energy Economy* Impact Finance for Sustainability Practitioners* Cost Benefit Analysis* Sustainable Entrepreneurship Sustainable Investing and Economic Growth Energy and Sustainable Development* Solar Project Development* Global Environmental Markets Energy Markets and Innovation* Financing Natural Infrastructure Accounting, Finance, and Modeling of Sustainable Investments* The Business and Ecology of Sustainable Forestry Economics of Sustainability Management Climate Finance and Sustainable Development* Sustainability Metrics Ethics for Sustainability Management and Finance *Will be offered online during 2021 - 2022. Please note that course offerings are subject to change. COMMUNITY The students who enroll in the Sustainable Finance Certification are members of the Earth Institute, the School of Professional Studies, and the greater Columbia University community. The Earth Institute reaches across the University to draw and integrate expertise from numerous academic disciplines, in order to propose solutions to some of the world’s most pressing problems. The Earth Institute comprises two dozen research centers, and it is affiliated with more than 30 academic programs. Students who pursue the Certification have access to the Institute’s leading experts in the field of sustainability, as well as the rest of the University’s world renowned faculty. The students study alongside a new generation of problem solvers who are enrolled in the Earth Institute’s academic programs. All students have access to the Earth Institute’s Professional Development program and the hundreds of extracurricular activities that the Institute organizes each year. TO APPLY Application Type: Master's Affiliated CPA Program Admission to the program is highly selective. Prospective students interested in learning more about the program are encouraged to meet with the director, the associate director, and the faculty. Application Deadlines Fall enrollment: May 15th Spring enrollment: November 1st Need help applying? Click here. CONTACT US Notice on Campus Visits In light of the evolving Covid-19 situation and the University’s guidelines for on-campus activity, Columbia University SPS Admissions has suspended all in-person campus visits. Admissions Counselors can connect you directly to students, alumni, faculty, and facilitate virtual class visits. You can also register for an information session. Our virtual events allow you to interact with our admissions staff and learn more about the Columbia SPS community. If you have any questions, please contact our office at inquire@sps.columbia.edu or 212-854-9666. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Management program, including admissions details, please contact us. Campus Visits, Graduate School Fairs & Company Presentations We are eager to host you on the Columbia University campus or to meet you at one of our information sessions. Our program offers a part-time option for working professionals. If your company would like to host an information session, please contact us. For more information about the graduate school fairs that we attend throughout the United States, please contact Chandler Precht, Associate Director at cprecht@ei.columbia.edu. Program Contacts For all student inquiries and DEI contact: John E. Williams, Ph.D. Associate Director, Student Affairs jew2159@columbia.edu For program administration and faculty contact: Maria Gray Director mlg17@columbia.edu For media and recruitment inquiries contact: Chandler Precht Associate Director, External Affairs and Communications cip2113@columbia.edu Office of Admissions School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 212-854-9666 sustainability@sps.columbia.edu IMPORTANT DATES APPLICATION DEADLINES Fall 2022: May 15, 2022 Spring 2023: November 1, 2022 For more information about the HBCU Fellowship, please visit this website or contact hbcu-fellowship@sps.columbia.edu. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Management program, please submit your contact information below. Submit Thanks for submitting!