Skip navigation Jump to main navigation Jump to main navigation New Health Guidance Columbia will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. Please ensure you have a green pass on the ReopenCU app. Learn more. Close alert MenuToggle header menu visibility MenuToggle header menu visibility Eyebrow menu / Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events Search terms The School As the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University, we open access to knowledge at the highest levels to move careers, communities and industries forward. Purpose Office of the Dean Faculty Leadership Academic Partners History Academics Our rigorous programs meet students where they are and take them where they want to go - on their terms and throughout their lives. Master's Degrees Master of Professional Studies Certificates & Certifications High School / Pre-college Programs Columbia Summer Session English Language Programs Postbaccalaureate Studies Graduate Preparation Auditing Programs Visiting Students Academic Calendars All Programs Executive Education Impact Learn how we're exchanging real-time ideas and insights for real-world impact. Columbia SPS DEIA Initiative Columbia HBCU Fellowship Program Youth in STEM Career Design Lab By the Numbers In the Community SPS Blog: Tomorrow's Minds at Work Admissions Our flexible formats and personalized pathways can help you advance your education and accelerate your career. Master's Degree Applicants Certificate & Certification Applicants Graduate Preparation Applicants High School / Pre-College Students Visiting Students English Language Programs Applicants Course Auditors Columbia University Employees Virtual Campus Tour Breadcrumb Academics Postbaccalaureate Studies Postbaccalaureate Studies Toggle sidebar menu visibility Apply Now Request Information Postbaccalaureate Studies University Courses Key to Course Listings Graduate School Preparation Events Tuition & Financing Overview Payment Procedures Withdrawal & Tuition Refund Financial Resources Admissions Overview Qualifications Deadlines Application Process Application Requirements Policies Admitted Students Contact Postbaccalaureate Studies Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies Postbaccalaureate programs offer motivated students with bachelor’s degrees the opportunity to advance their knowledge and achieve their academic goals as part of Columbia University’s community. Rigorous undergraduate and graduate courses in more than 100 subject areas offer students the opportunity to study with Columbia’s distinguished faculty alongside matriculating degree candidates. Working closely with advisors at the School of Professional Studies, postbaccalaureate students develop a dynamic plan tailored to their backgrounds and academic goals, drawing from options ranging from highly structured to extremely flexible. Application Announcement Now accepting applications. Learn more. Information Sessions Attend a session about the Postbaccalaureate Studies program. Dates to be announced. 100+ More than 100 areas of study 15+ Advanced Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement available 65+ Individuals 65 and older can join the Lifelong Learners Auditing Program Upcoming Events Jun 8 Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting 5:30 pm EDT Online Info Session Jul 12 Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting 5:30 pm EDT Online Info Session Program Highlights Program Options Application Requirements Course Format Time Commitment University Courses Bachelor’s degree or its equivalent from an accredited American or foreign university required Tailored to individual backgrounds and academic goals Varies depending on academic pursuits. Can be highly structured or extremely flexible Who Should Apply Motivated students with bachelor’s degrees who are looking to advance their knowledge and pursue their goals as part of Columbia University’s community. Attention: Pre-Med Students Postbaccalaureate Studies through SPS may be most valuable to individuals who have already completed most pre-med classes and only need to take a few more classes to fulfill requirements. Students have the ability to customize a program of study to meet their individual needs. Each semester, SPS welcomes students taking classes across Math, Statistics, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Physics and Psychology for this purpose. Students seeking an exclusive pre-med program with in-built medical school advising may want to consider the Postbac Premed Program at the Columbia University School of General Studies. Related Programs Auditing Programs Auditing Programs Enrich your education by attending select lectures in the Arts & Sciences during the academic year. Program Options On Campus Full-time, Part-time Featured Faculty, Students & Alumni Alumni Muhan Liang: This Postbaccalaureate Studies Student Seized the Opportunity to Add New Skills During the Pandemic Muhan Liang enrolled in the Postbaccalaureate Studies program during Columbia Summer after completing her Master's. Alumni Lydia Roberts: From Health Care PR to a Clinical Psychology Ph.D. with the help of SPS Lydia Roberts, '20SPS, leveraged her work in the Psychology Certificate program to pursue a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology. Student Tanusha Satavalli: Opening The Next Chapter Through Postbaccalaureate Studies Post-baccalaureate Studies at SPS gave her room to explore and preparation for the M.S. in Sustainability Management program. In the News View All News School Columbia University Summer Session: Registration Opens March 1 Hundreds of courses are confirmed for the 2022 Summer Session, including Money & Banking, Biodiversity, and How to Write Funny. Faculty Dr. Elisheva Carlebach: Knowledge and Access to It Has Always Been Political Dr. Elisheva Carlebach will instruct Censorship & Freedom of Expression in Early Modern Europe, May 3 - June 14, 2021. Impacts and Insights Keep Learning and Keep Connecting This Spring at SPS Participate in forward-thinking events with leading academics and industry experts this Spring at SPS. View All News Connect with Us Learn more about the Postbaccalaureate Studies program at Columbia University School of Professional Studies or contact the program advisor. Request more information Postbaccalaureate Studies Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 postbacc@sps.columbia.edu Office of Admissions 212-854-9666 inquire@sps.columbia.edu Study with Us As admissions to our program are highly competitive, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. Learn more about the application process, deadlines, and requirements. Learn more * International students are responsible for ensuring they have read and understand the University’s student visa application eligibility and requirements. Please note that it is not permissible to enroll while in B-1/B-2 status. In addition, if studying on a student visa, you must enroll in the full-time option (12 credits per term), if available, and study on campus. Footer Social Links LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram This program is part of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies Secondary navigation Faculty Staff Students Alumni Blog News Events The School Academics Impact Admissions Footer menu Careers at SPS Contact Us Support SPS Store 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY, 10027 © Copyright 2019 Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Privacy Policy