Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About us News and Stories Inside Iowa State Inside Update News Releases Meetings Coverage Regents Updates Change Agent features Five Questions features Futurity.org research headlines Services Internal Communications News Service Photography Social Media University Marketing Videography Public Records Public Records FAQ Public Records Log Reports Transparency Social Media Social media is an online community of sharing, with many different platforms. The university's primary accounts are used to communicate and engage with the public, including customer service, news, emergencies and storytelling. There are many social media accounts associated with the university, some of which are included on Iowa State's social media directory. Primary accounts Strategic relations and communications staff manage Iowa State's primary social media accounts (@IowaStateU): Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Specialized accounts News Service and Inside Iowa State staff maintain content-specific accounts: News Service (Twitter, YouTube) Inside Iowa State (Twitter) Guidelines and policies There are several university policies that apply, but are not specific to, social media use. General, common-sense guidelines (PDF) also are available for individuals and units. For help, counsel or tips on best practices for professional (or balancing personal) social media accounts, contact Erin Rosacker. Rosacker also is available to speak with or present to groups on a variety of social media topics. Social media directory Departments and units must have a minimum of two well-established social media accounts to be included on the university's social media directory. Send directory requests or updates to Erin Rosacker. Websites Online events calendar The website includes on-campus public events, activities and workshops. Submit entries to calendar@iastate.edu. Iowa State website Strategic relations and communications staff maintain the top-level ISU homepage and many of the second-level pages. Contact Erin Rosacker with questions. Contact Erin Rosacker Communications specialist edavison@iastate.edu 515-294-8870 Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Contact Strategic Relations and Communications 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...