Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About us News and Stories Inside Iowa State Inside Update News Releases Meetings Coverage Regents Updates Change Agent features Five Questions features Futurity.org research headlines Services Internal Communications News Service Photography Social Media University Marketing Videography Public Records Public Records FAQ Public Records Log Reports Transparency Transparency In 2013, the Iowa Board of Regents asked the state universities and special schools that it oversees to institute several recommended best practices for responding to public information requests and providing Iowans with ready access to information. This site outlines some of the key ways that Iowans can access information as well as provide input to state officials. Public records requests Iowa State University is subject to the Iowa Public Records Law, Chapter 22 of the Iowa Code. This Q&A explains the law and how to request information. View public records requests. View Public Records Statistical Reports (PDFs) Key sources for news, information News Service Campus news sources, by department ISU statistics, facts Consumer information disclosures Public hearings on regents agendas Prior to each state Board of Regents meeting, Iowans can review the agenda online and, if desired, provide comments at one of six public hearings held at the regents institutions and the board office. All hearings throughout the state will be video recorded and posted on the regents hearings website. The site also contains public hearing details and schedules through 2014. Transparency officer Shirley Knipfel Assistant to the President phone: 515-294-1781 email: sknipfel@iastate.edu Transparency officers (PDF) at other Iowa institutions Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Contact Strategic Relations and Communications 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...