Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About us News and Stories Inside Iowa State Inside Update News Releases Meetings Coverage Regents Updates Change Agent features Five Questions features Futurity.org research headlines Services Internal Communications News Service Photography Social Media University Marketing Videography Public Records Public Records FAQ Public Records Log Reports Transparency Internal Communications The Internal Communications team helps update the campus community and other audiences on university issues and events. Services include: Inside Iowa State This online faculty-staff newspaper is published weekly year-round, with interruptions for breaks in the academic calendar. Contact Inside Iowa State, 515-294-7065, inside@iastate.edu. Inside Update A supplement to the faculty-staff newspaper, this weekly email is sent to all faculty and staff on Thursday mornings. To submit announcements (of general interest to faculty and staff) to the Update, email inside@iastate.edu by noon Wednesday. ISU retirees and non-employee subscribers can subscribe to Inside Update. Send requests to inside@iastate.edu. Faculty-staff announcements Announcements of interest to ISU faculty and staff are updated daily. Send submissions to inside@iastate.edu. Student announcements Announcements of interest to ISU students are updated daily. Send submissions to inside@iastate.edu. Staff Anne Krapfl Editor, Inside Iowa State Communications Manager Office: 515-294-7065 email: adkrapfl@iastate.edu Jeff Budlong Communications Specialist Office: 515-294-5952 email: jbudlong@iastate.edu Dave Roepke Communications Specialist Office: 515-294-4845 email: dcroepke@iastate.edu Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Contact Strategic Relations and Communications 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...