Skip to main content Financial Wellness Utility Links Student Registration & Financial Services University of Pennsylvania search full menu Financial Wellness Primary Nav Browse Topics Workshops & Courses Tools & Support Financial Wellness Blog Financial Wellness Drawer Menu Browse Topics Explore Back to main menu Getting Started Budgeting Explore Back to main menu Essentials of Budgeting Building Your Monthly Budget Popular Budgeting Strategies Banking Explore Back to main menu Essentials of Banking How To Make Banking Decisions Open or Close an Account Debt Explore Back to main menu Essentials of Debt Credit Scores Responsible Debt Habits How to Make Borrowing Decisions Investing Explore Back to main menu Essentials of Investing Understanding Risk Start Investing Workshops & Courses Explore Back to main menu Request a Workshop Financial Fridays Introduction to Investing Financing Your Future Additional Workshops & Events Past Events Tools & Support Explore Back to main menu Peer Counseling Suggested Resources Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Grants Financial Wellness Blog Search Enhancing students’ financial well-being by providing personal finance education, tools, and resources. Explore Financial Wellness @ Penn Financial Wellness Disclaimers Budgeting Budgeting Learn how to manage your money. Visit Budgeting Explore This Section Essentials of Budgeting Building Your Monthly Budget Popular Budgeting Strategies Collapse Banking Banking Learn how to optimize your banking strategies. Visit Banking Explore This Section Essentials of Banking How To Make Banking Decisions Open or Close an Account Collapse Debt Debt Learn how to borrow responsibly. Visit Debt Explore This Section Essentials of Debt How to Make Borrowing Decisions Credit Scores Responsible Debt Habits Collapse Investing Investing Learn how to make your money work for you. Visit Investing Explore This Section Essentials of Investing Understanding Risk Start Investing Collapse Financial Wellness Workshops Learn about our ongoing personal finance workshop series or request a one-off workshop for your group. Learn More Peer Counseling Our team of peer counselors is trained to individualized personal financial guidance. Both in-person and virtual appointments are available. Learn More @finwellatpenn finwellatpenn Financial Wellness Tools & Support In your personal finance journey, knowing the terminology is only half the battle. Use our templates, worksheets, and detailed guides to help implement the knowledge and strategies you’ve learned already. Learn More Additional Financial Wellness Resources Glossary Need Help? Type a word or phrase into the search box to find the answers you need. Search 3451 Walnut Street University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Mon, Wed, Thurs, Fri: 9am – 5pm Tue: 10am – 5pm Sat, Sun: Closed Financial Wellness Footer Menu Disclaimers Submit a Suggestion Footer Menu University of Pennsylvania Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104