Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home About SRSS Staff Forms Forms A-Z Forms by Office Remote Learning Request Services Services A-Z Services by Office Offices Case Management and Victim Support Services Goldman Center for Student Accessibility Office of Student Conduct Resources Tulane Resources Community Resources Virtual Events Home About SRSS Staff Forms Forms A-Z Forms by Office Remote Learning Request Services Services A-Z Services by Office Offices Case Management and Victim Support Services Goldman Center for Student Accessibility Office of Student Conduct Resources Tulane Resources Community Resources Virtual Events Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... STUDENT RESOURCES AND SUPPORT SERVICES - DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS Student Resources and Support Services In the course of their time in college, most students will encounter challenges that they don't quite know how to handle. Sometimes asking for or knowing where to go for help can prove extremely difficult. Student Resources & Support Services (SRSS) was created to give students in need of support a single place to go for assistance. We use an individualized approach to help students connect to the resources that they may need on campus and in the New Orleans community. SRSS includes the Office of Case Management & Victim Support Services, Goldman Center for Student Accessibility, and the Office of Student Conduct. We are committed to helping all Tulane students successfully navigate problems that may arise so they can have a successful Tulane experience. We also know that many times students in need of support turn to peers, friends, faculty/staff members or parents for help. Student Resources & Support Services is also available to help those individuals appropriately support students who have turned to them. Student Resources & Support Services is a great place to go if you have no idea where to go. No matter how difficult or unique your situation, we are here to help. Please feel free to contact us with any questions. If you are facing a problem, concern, or conflict and are not sure where to begin, please contact the Office of Student Resources and Support Services (SRSS). During business hours you can call (504) 314-2160, e-mail srss@tulane.edu, or stop by the Lavin-Bernick Center (LBC) Suite G02. For after-hour support, the Division of Student Affairs provides a 24/7 professional staff on call for urgent situations and can be reached by calling (504) 920-9900. How to Reach Us 504-314-2160 Email: srss@tulane.edu Fax: (504) 865-6769 How to Connect to Services Online Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Testing Protocols Select a CategoryQuick Links Report a Concern/Incident Services A-Z Forms A-Z Tulane Resources Community Resources Offices Case Management & Victim Support Services Goldman Center for Student Accessibility Office of Student Conduct Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Middle Column Rich Text Widget Content News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University