Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home New Student Resources New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance All new and continuing students are required by the University to have quality health insurance. Columbia Health is the on-campus resource that provides extensive health care and services for you while you are at the University*. The coverage provided by Columbia Health and a comparable insurance plan work together to meet your health care needs. Domestic Students: To meet the insurance requirement, students must confirm their enrollment in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan OR request a waiver and provide proof of comparable coverage that meets the University requirements (instructions). International Students: Navigating the US healthcare system can be complex. To help ensure that international students have access to the highest quality of care on- and off-campus, Columbia University requires all international students to enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. On a limited case-by-case basis, students may be eligible for an exception. Open enrollment period Open enrollment for new Spring Term students starts December 15, 2021 to February 15, 2022. (Coverage period: January 1 until August 14, 2022). Students must submit their waiver/exception request by February 1, 2022 to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended fees. Why enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan? Columbia University wants you to have good coverage so that health needs and concerns--including unanticipated health care costs--are not a barrier to the achievement of your personal and academic goals. Here are a few key reasons to enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan: No co-pays for medical and mental health services with Columbia Health providers Plan optimized to the needs of students Global coverage for routine, urgent, and emergency care Dental service discounts Premiums billed to your student account (no upfront payments) Dedicated insurance team to provide support (onsite at John Jay, 3rd Floor and virtual) Please visit the Columbia Health website for detailed information about the Plan, eligibility, optional dental and vision plans, contact information, and more. *The Columbia Health and Related Services Fee covers access to all of Columbia Health's programs and services (Alice! Health Promotion, Counseling and Psychological Services, Disability Services, Medical Services, Sexual Violence Response, the Student Health Insurance Office, and Immunization Compliance Office). Students who DO NOT take action before the deadline will be automatically enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Action items: 30 days before you register for classes, all new students must: Submit (1) measles, mumps, and rubella, (2) seasonal influenza, and (3) COVID-19 immunization documentation and (4) certify their meningitis decision (and upload documentation if meningitis vaccine was received) via the Columbia Health Patient Portal. February 1, 2022: Submit a waiver or exception request (instructions) via the Columbia Health Patient Portal. February 15, 2022: All new and returning full-time domestic students and all international students must confirm their insurance selection. All new and returning part-time domestic students can choose to enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan or enroll in optional dental and vision plans. Key Tasks for New Students Go Back to Main Page Activate your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Understand University Policies Helpful Videos Deadlines 30 Days Before Registration Submit immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) meningitis decision at least 30 days before class registration.* *If admitted less than 30 days before registration, your ability to register will be on hold until your immunization documentation is received and processed. 2 Weeks Before Your School Orientation Submit a photo online for your University ID card. You will be able to pick up your card when you arrive on campus. Complete the Health History Form. December 15, 2021 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance begins for Spring Term students. Confirm enrollment or request waiver/exception (if eligible). Minor Authorization form due for students under the age of 18. December 20, 2021 First Spring 2022 E-Bill statement emailed to students, estimated Spring term charges and anticipated credits, and an automatic $150.00 term late payment charge applied to any unpaid balance, 1.5% late payment charge on unpaid balances for each billing statement cycle. Late June 2022 Undergraduate students who will be living on campus for the Spring 2022 Term will receive their room assignments and assigned Check-In day and time. August 1, 2022 Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement. Failure to sign the Occupancy Agreement may delay your check-in or jeopardize your room assignment. August 28, 2022 Housing Check-In for new undergraduate residential students. January 28, 2022 (by 10pm for online payments) Payment Due Date for the First Spring E-Bill Statement. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing Schedule. February 1, 2022 Deadline to submit health insurance waiver/exception request to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended feeds. February 15, 2022 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance ends for Fall Term students. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close