Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home Official Documents Certifications Certifications An academic certification is an official document provided by the University Registrar verifying dates of attendance, award of degree, and/or student status (full-time or part-time) by semester. It is typically requested for health insurance, visa, employment, or credit verification purposes. There is no fee for this service. You must have current/prior registration on record to request this document. If you are an incoming student, you can request this verification document after registration during orientation. Certification Requests The Office of the University Registrar contracts with the National Student Clearinghouse to be our official third-party provider of degree and enrollment certifications. The expectation is that all degree and enrollment certifications for current students will be requested from and processed by the National Student Clearinghouse. Currently enrolled students can use a self-service application for the creation of official enrollment certifications through Student Services Online (SSOL). Employers and insurers should contact the National Student Clearinghouse to verify a Columbia University degree. The Clearinghouse may be reached by phone at: (703) 742-4200. Note: If you are requesting a certification for a visa, you should make certain that your expected graduation date is included on your record before leaving and returning to the United States. Currently enrolled students should request enrollment certifications online using SSOL. Students who have specialized forms can email requests to [email protected]. Students may request a certification of their disciplinary records from Student Conduct and Community Standards Students who do not have access to SSOL can complete the Academic Certification Request Form and send it to [email protected]. Medical Center students with special certification requests should email [email protected]. 212-854-4400 [email protected] Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close