Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home New Student Resources For New Columbia College & Columbia Engineering Undergraduates For New Columbia College & Columbia Engineering Undergraduates Congratulations on your acceptance to Columbia University! As a new student, you need to fulfill several requirements prior to your arrival. This website is a guide to planning and completing your requirements in order to avoid potential penalties and registration delays. We look forward to seeing you soon. Important Things to Do First, activate your Columbia UNI (your computing account) and then check your University email account. To help you with the following activities, we recommend logging in with your UNI and password to the interactive New Student Checklist. Insurance Open Enrollment Period Spring Term students: December 15, 2021 to July 15, 2022 Health Submit the required immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) certify your meningitis decision (and upload documentation if meningitis vaccine was received) via the Columbia Health Patient Portal at least 30 days before registering for classes. Compliance with immunization requirements must be confirmed before the students are permitted to register for classes. Confirm your enrollment in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan or request a waiver (domestic students) or exception (international students) by February 1, 2022. Open enrollment for Spring Term students starts December 15, 2021 to February 15, 2022. International Students: To help ensure that international students have access to the highest quality of care on- and off-campus, Columbia University requires all international students to enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan (visit our website for possible exceptions). Confirm your enrollment in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan by the deadline or submit an exception request by February 1, 2022. Submit the Columbia Student Health History Form online no later than two weeks before orientation. Learn more about how information shared in this form helps ensure a smooth transition to campus. Students seeking reasonable accommodations or support services are required to register with Disability Services. Learn about eligible conditions (e.g. chronic or temporary physical, learning, medical, or psychological conditions), documentation, services, and important deadlines. Submit a Minor Authorization Form (if applicable) to Columbia Health. Housing & Dining After you receive your Housing assignment, complete your Occupancy Assignment online in the Housing Portal. Your assignment email also will provide your Check-In date and time. As a reminder, the University is not responsible for the loss or damage of your belongings. We recommend that you acquire property insurance prior to arriving on campus. Familiarize yourself with the Guide to Living. This includes all policies and procedures related to living in the residence halls. Review Dining options or purchase Dining Dollars or add funds to Flex through your SSOL account. Registrar Upload a photo for your University ID card. Student Financial Services Review your Student Account Statement using Student Services Online (SSOL). The first Fall 2020 billing statement will be emailed to you on August 10, 2020. The payment deadline is September 18, 2020. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing schedule. University Policies International Students: Begin the visa process through the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO). Visit the University Policy website for important policy information. Key Tasks for New Students Go Back to Main Page Activate your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement Consider Purchasing Property Insurance Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Be Prepared Helpful Videos Deadlines 30 Days Before Registration Submit immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) meningitis decision at least 30 days before class registration.* *If admitted less than 30 days before registration, your ability to register will be on hold until your immunization documentation is received and processed. 2 Weeks Before Your School Orientation Submit a photo online for your University ID card. You will be able to pick up your card when you arrive on campus. Complete the Health History Form. December 15, 2021 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance begins for Spring Term students. Confirm enrollment or request waiver/exception (if eligible). Minor Authorization form due for students under the age of 18. December 20, 2021 First Spring 2022 E-Bill statement emailed to students, estimated Spring term charges and anticipated credits, and an automatic $150.00 term late payment charge applied to any unpaid balance, 1.5% late payment charge on unpaid balances for each billing statement cycle. Late June 2022 Undergraduate students who will be living on campus will receive their room assignments and assigned Check-In day and time. August 1, 2022 Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement. Failure to sign the Occupancy Agreement may delay your check-in or jeopardize your room assignment. August 27, 2022 Housing Check-In for new (international) students. Bag drop for students who received previous confirmation from Columbia Housing. August 28, 2022 Housing Check-In for new (domestic) students. January 28, 2022 (by 10pm for online payments) Payment Due Date for the First Spring E-Bill Statement. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing Schedule. February 1, 2022 Deadline to submit health insurance waiver/exception request to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended feeds. February 15, 2022 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance ends for Fall Term students. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close