Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home New Student Resources New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Follow University Policies Follow University Policies As a member of the Columbia University community, you are responsible for following the University's policies, as well as local, state, and federal laws. These policies are in place so that all members of the Columbia community can safely and successfully focus on studies and take part in campus life. Click on a topic below: Expand all Collapse all Copyright, File-Sharing, and Responsible Use of Electronic Resources As a member of the Columbia University community, it is important that you understand your responsibilities for complying with the University’s policies and federal law on the use of electronic resources, including computers, networks (including the Internet), email, and online information resources, and on the use of copyrighted material on Columbia’s computer systems and network. The University’s electronic resources and services are for the primary purpose of supporting the University’s mission of education, research, and service. Uses that interfere with or threaten the operation and activities of any part of the University are prohibited, as are uses that violate the law, University policy or the rights of others. Peer-to-peer file-sharing programs such as Kazaa and BitTorrent, make it easy to download and share unauthorized copies of music, movies, and other copyrighted works. Such activity is against the law and exposes you to legal liability. To help you use Columbia’s electronic resources and services responsibly, and to help you understand the basics of copyright law, we have summarized some information about copyright law below. More detailed information can be found on the University’s website at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/copyright-information-network-users. Copyright Law and Policy Copyright infringement is the act of exercising, without permission or legal authority, one or more of the exclusive rights granted to the copyright owner under section 106 of the Copyright Act (Title 17 of the United States Code). These rights include the right to reproduce or distribute a copyrighted work. In the file sharing context, downloading or uploading substantial parts of a copyrighted work without authority constitutes an infringement. While there are exceptions under the law that allow copying or distribution of protected works, the use of peer-to-peer software programs to download or upload copyrighted music and movies without permission of the copyright owner would virtually never qualify for an exception. Violations of copyright law are also violations of University policy. Monitoring The University does not monitor the network for content. However, it does monitor the volume of use on the network. File sharing generates a high volume of network traffic, and if your computer is generating excessive network traffic, your Internet access will automatically be limited. For information on bandwidth limits, see the University's Network Protection Policy at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/network-protection-policy. Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Most P2P programs such as BitTorrent and LimeWire, automatically turn on sharing when installed and run whenever your computer is on. Even if you disable uploading, many P2P programs automatically reset to resume uploading, and copyrighted material in a “shared” folder can be seen by others using the same P2P software. If you have such programs on your computer, you may be violating copyright law without knowing it. Moreover, some content owners, including the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), use the same P2P software to “capture” infringers. This monitoring by the RIAA has led to numerous lawsuits against students, including many Columbia students. Payments to settle these lawsuits can be substantial. The bottom line is that if you want to ensure compliance with the law, do not install P2P file sharing software on your computer. For more information, see the University Registration and Protection of Systems Policy at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/registration-and-protection-systems-policy. Legal Alternatives Electronic Resources As a member of the Columbia University community, it is important that you understand your responsibilities for complying with the University’s policies and federal law on the use of electronic resources, including computers, networks (including the Internet), email, and online information resources, and on the use of copyrighted material on Columbia’s computer systems and network. The University’s electronic resources and services are for the primary purpose of supporting the University’s mission of education, research, and service. Uses that interfere with or threaten the operation and activities of any part of the University are prohibited, as are uses that violate the law, University policy or the rights of others. Peer-to-peer file-sharing programs such as Kazaa and BitTorrent, make it easy to download and share unauthorized copies of music, movies, and other copyrighted works. Such activity is against the law and exposes you to legal liability. To help you use Columbia’s electronic resources and services responsibly, and to help you understand the basics of copyright law, we have summarized some information about copyright law below. More detailed information can be found on the University’s website at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/copyright-information-network-users. Copyright Law and Policy Copyright infringement is the act of exercising, without permission or legal authority, one or more of the exclusive rights granted to the copyright owner under section 106 of the Copyright Act (Title 17 of the United States Code). These rights include the right to reproduce or distribute a copyrighted work. In the file sharing context, downloading or uploading substantial parts of a copyrighted work without authority constitutes an infringement. While there are exceptions under the law that allow copying or distribution of protected works, the use of peer-to-peer software programs to download or upload copyrighted music and movies without permission of the copyright owner would virtually never qualify for an exception. Violations of copyright law are also violations of University policy. Monitoring The University does not monitor the network for content. However, it does monitor the volume of use on the network. File sharing generates a high volume of network traffic, and if your computer is generating excessive network traffic, your Internet access will automatically be limited. For information on bandwidth limits, see the University's Network Protection Policy at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/network-protection-policy. Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Most P2P programs such as BitTorrent and LimeWire, automatically turn on sharing when installed and run whenever your computer is on. Even if you disable uploading, many P2P programs automatically reset to resume uploading, and copyrighted material in a “shared” folder can be seen by others using the same P2P software. If you have such programs on your computer, you may be violating copyright law without knowing it. Moreover, some content owners, including the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), use the same P2P software to “capture” infringers. This monitoring by the RIAA has led to numerous lawsuits against students, including many Columbia students. Payments to settle these lawsuits can be substantial. The bottom line is that if you want to ensure compliance with the law, do not install P2P file sharing software on your computer. For more information, see the University Registration and Protection of Systems Policy at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/registration-and-protection-systems-policy. Legal Alternatives Keep in mind that there are legal alternatives for downloading copyrighted material. For a list of some of the popular legal alternatives for downloading movies and music and other copyrighted materials, see http://cuit.columbia.edu/cuit/it-security-practices/filesharing-networks/legal-music-movies-online. Additionally, EDUCAUSE, which you can link to at http://www.educause.edu/legalcontent, maintains an extensive list of legal alternatives for downloading copyrighted materials. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Under the DMCA, copyright owners file notices of copyright violations with the University, requiring the University to take immediate action to eliminate such violations. If you are implicated in such activity, you will be notified of the allegation and your network access will be terminated until you have (i) removed the infringing material, (ii) taken a short quiz on copyright, and (iii) agreed to comply with copyright law and not engage in, among other things, illegal downloading, storing, and distribution of copyrighted materials. In the case of repeat infringement, sanctions become more severe, and the University may be required to prohibit you from accessing the University network. For more information on the DMCA, and disciplinary sanctions for copyright infringement, see http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/copyright-information-network-users. Summary of Civil and Criminal Penalties for Violation of Federal Copyright Laws Copyright infringement constitutes both a violation of University policy and a violation of the law. Under the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA), the University is required to inform you of the civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing. Those penalties include the following: Anyone found liable for civil copyright infringement may be ordered to pay either actual damages or “statutory” damages, which are set at not less than $750 and not more than $30,000 per work infringed. A court also has discretion to assess costs and attorneys’ fees. Willful copyright infringement also can result in criminal penalties, including imprisonment of up to five years and fines of up to $250,000 per offense. Proper use of the University’s electronic services and resources will enhance the quality of the University network and systems and foster a culture of respect for the intellectual property rights of both members of the University community and copyright owners in the larger creative community. University Policies Policies and regulations help guide members of the University community. The University Policy site is a central resources for a broad range of topics at Columbia. Included are policies that govern attendance, alcohol and drugs, equal opportunity and nondiscrimination, sexual assault, event protocols, partisan political activity, and leaves of absence, as well as the Policy on Access to Student Records under the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974. Essential Policies also contains consumer information for enrolled and prospective students. You are expected to read and familiarize yourself with the full text of these policies, which are available online. Campus Safety The safety and well-being of students, staff and faculty is a priority at Columbia. The Department of Public Safety publishes an annual report that includes crime definitions and statistics, as well as information on the University's Safe Haven program, to keep the community informed of incidents on and around campus. View the report online and visit the Public Safety website to learn about the many available services and resources to keep you and your property safe. The University's Emergency Management Operations Team also publishes the Preparedness website, where you can learn more about Columbia's planning and preparation for emergency situations. During an emergency the Preparedness site serves as a central source of information for the University. Emergency Text Messaging In the event of an urgent situation, the University's Emergency Text Message Notification System is the most convenient and reliable means of getting real-time up-to-date information to you. Some possible scenarios for Columbia choosing to send you a text message include weather emergencies, major transit interruptions and campus closures. Text message notifications will be used only in rare circumstances to notify you of critical information regarding urgent situations. To sign up: Log in to https://ssol.columbia.edu/ with your UNI and password Under "Text Message Enrollment," enter your mobile phone number Click "Save" The University conducts tests of the Text Message Notification System twice a year. Members of the community are notified of the test in advance. These tests will not require you to do anything, and will provide familiarity with the text message notification system in the event that we need to use it for urgent information. Sexual and Gender-Based Misconduct The University is committed to fostering a healthy and safe environment in which every member of the community can realize her or his fullest potential. As a member of the Columbia University community, it is important that you understand your responsibilities for complying with the University’s policies on sexual and gender-based misconduct. Policies You are expected to read and familiarize yourself with the full text of the following policies: Gender-Based and Sexual Misconduct Policies For Students Student Policies and Procedures on Discrimination and Harassment Policy on Romantic and Sexual Relationships Between Faculty/Staff and Undergraduate Students Policy on Romantic and Sexual Relationships between Faculty/Staff and Graduate Students Resources Sexual Respect at Columbia University Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Support and Advocacy Resources Sexual Violence Response Key Tasks for New Students Go Back to Main Page Activate your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Understand University Policies Helpful Videos Deadlines 30 Days Before Registration Submit immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) meningitis decision at least 30 days before class registration.* *If admitted less than 30 days before registration, your ability to register will be on hold until your immunization documentation is received and processed. 2 Weeks Before Your School Orientation Submit a photo online for your University ID card. You will be able to pick up your card when you arrive on campus. Complete the Health History Form. December 15, 2021 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance begins for Spring Term students. Confirm enrollment or request waiver/exception (if eligible). Minor Authorization form due for students under the age of 18. December 20, 2021 First Spring 2022 E-Bill statement emailed to students, estimated Spring term charges and anticipated credits, and an automatic $150.00 term late payment charge applied to any unpaid balance, 1.5% late payment charge on unpaid balances for each billing statement cycle. Late June 2022 Undergraduate students who will be living on campus for the Spring 2022 Term will receive their room assignments and assigned Check-In day and time. August 1, 2022 Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement. Failure to sign the Occupancy Agreement may delay your check-in or jeopardize your room assignment. August 28, 2022 Housing Check-In for new undergraduate residential students. January 28, 2022 (by 10pm for online payments) Payment Due Date for the First Spring E-Bill Statement. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing Schedule. February 1, 2022 Deadline to submit health insurance waiver/exception request to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended feeds. February 15, 2022 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance ends for Fall Term students. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close