Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home ID Card ID Center ID Center About your University ID Card The University ID Card is your passport to Columbia. It grants you access to the Library and secure campus locations, allows you to purchase services at campus cafes and the University bookstore, and enables you to take advantage of cultural discount programs in New York City. ID Center Location ID Center (Morningside) 210 Kent Hall New York, NY 10027 Updated Hours: The Student Service and ID Center in 210 Kent Hall will be open Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Tuesday, 9:00am to 4:00pm Of special note for the fall opening is that students, Faculty, and staff are now REQUIRED to upload ID photos prior to coming to Kent Hall to obtain their ID Cards. Photos cannot be taken at the ID center. This requirement is designed to reduce the numbers of people visiting the ID Center. Printed and digital transcripts and academic certifications can be ordered through Parchment in Student Services Online. All requests for such services can also be submitted to [email protected] or 212-854-4400. Apostille service is available by appointment ONLY - you may bring the document in person to 210 Kent, mail it to us, or scan and email documents to [email protected] to begin the process, which will require making an appointment with our notary who is not on site daily. Please note that we are closed on University Holidays. Email: [email protected] Campus Map Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close