Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home Official Documents Transcripts Transcripts Expand all Collapse all Ordering a Transcript Currently enrolled students and former students with access to Student Services Online (SSOL) should order secure electronic or paper transcripts using SSOL. Recent alumni: you can reset your UNI password for SSOL access by visiting http://uni.columbia.edu. Transcript requests that can be completed using SSOL will not be printed or mailed by the Office of the University Registrar. If you cannot gain access to SSOL, fill out, sign, and email the Request for Transcript form to [email protected]. For information regarding Library fines, please see the Butler Library Circulation website. Any requests for Columbia to send transcripts by express, next-day service to other parties must be accompanied by a prepaid FedEx shipping bill. Email your urgent request to [email protected] with "urgent" in the subject line. To create the prepaid shipping bill (Fedex only): Go to http://www.fedex.com/us/ Under Quick Access, click on Create a Shipment. Registered fedex.com users should log in with their password and login (on the left side of page); New fedex.com users should use one of the options on the right side of page to create the shipping bill. Once label is created, user should scan and email label to us for overnight shipping. Please note that this is for overnight shipping and should be processed the same day in order for the transcript/certification to get to the intended destination by next day. Take “Ctrl” of Your Transcript – Secure PDF Ordering in SSOL The Office of the Registrar's eTranscript service is available in SSOL to both current students and alumni. We’ve partnered with a premier electronic transcript vendor to provide a new application that allows you to electronically send secure, official PDF transcripts to the destination of your choice within minutes, in addition to standard services including online ordering and fulfillment of traditional paper transcripts. When you order a transcript through this service, you can track your request online and receive email notifications when the transcript is generated and delivered electronically (or mailed, based on the delivery preference). The tracking mechanism also allows you to monitor when an electronic transcript is actually opened by the intended recipient. Additional benefits of this service include: Accurate and speedy service for ordering and receiving transcripts The ability to deliver to any recipient with a valid email address worldwide Improved service and convenience to students and alumni Email confirmation of order receipt, processing, and delivery Available to students and alumni for placing transcript requests online 24 hours a day, 7 days a week To order, follow the instructions below. If you have any questions, please write to us at [email protected]. Electronic Transcript Generation for AMCAS Students and alumni/ae engaged in the process of medical school admission can request that their transcripts be transmitted electronically through secure, pdf transfer from SIS/SSOL directly to AMCAS (American Medical College Application Service). Students sending their electronic transcripts to AMCAS will log into Student Services Online (SSOL), click the “Transcript Ordering” menu option, then click the “Order Transcript” button, and, finally, select the “AMCAS Transcript (PDF)” option (see image below). Students will be prompted to enter their AMCAS ID number thereby ensuring that AMCAS can link the transcript request to the correct account. 212-854-4400 [email protected] Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close