Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home ID Card Obtain an ID Card Obtain an ID Card Expand all Collapse all Students New students from Columbia, Barnard, and Union Theological Seminary, may submit a photo online via the online submission tool. If you submit a photo, your ID card will be ready for you during your specific orientation period. You will be notified by your school with the details of your ID card pick up. You must be a currently enrolled student to be provided the general access to the buildings on campus. If you are not enrolled, your prior privileges will be shut off after the second week of the current semester/future semester. If you are returning from a Leave of Absence or time off, you will need to obtain a new ID card after you have officially registered for your semester courses. Please stop into the ID center 2 days after your initial registration. Students may pick up validation stickers from the Student Service Center (210 Kent Hall) or the ID center (210 Kent Hall) for the current semester. Alumni Alumni/Alumnus can obtain an Alumni Reading Card from the Library Information Office in Butler Library, Room 201. Please visit the Alumni borrowing privileges website for more details. Note: If you are a new student at Barnard or Union Theological Seminary, be sure to bring the appropriate form with you in order to be issued an ID card. Faculty & Staff New Columbia, Barnard and Union Theological Seminary faculty and staff may upload a photo via the online submission tool. All staff and faculty may pick up ID cards from 210 Kent Hall during normal business hours. If you are a newly hired faculty or staff member who does not already have a UNI, be sure that your department has entered you into the DIA database before you visit the ID Center. New faculty and staff who have UNIs (for example, students who are hired as full-time staff) may visit the ID Center as early as their first day of work. If you are a current faculty or staff member whose ID card has expired, there is no fee for a replacement. You may also have your photo re-taken at no charge when you renew your ID. Contractors, Casual Workers, University Affiliates, and Visitors The cost for contractor, casual worker, University affiliates, and visitor IDs is $20 each, payable using one of the following methods: MasterCard Visa University ARC chart string. If your department will be paying via ARC chart string, please have them download this form, fill it out and add it to departmental letterhead. Bring the completed form on letterhead with you to the ID Center. ID Center (Morningside) 210 Kent Hall New York, NY 10027 Email: [email protected] COVID-19 Guidelines Due to social distancing guidelines we are requiring new students, faculty, and staff to upload a photo before we will print an ID Card. https://ssc.columbia.edu/upload-photo New students should NOT visit the ID Center for their cards. Cards will be given to the schools for distribution to new students. Normal proceedings remain in existence for current students and staff. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close