Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home ID Card Replace an ID Card Replace an ID Card Lost/Stolen ID Card If you find an ID card you reported lost or stolen, please do not attempt to use it. Please take any lost ID cards to Public Safety. Any attempts made to use a lost/stolen ID card can and will result in criminal and/or university disciplinary action. As soon as you realize that your card has been lost or stolen, deactivate it through SSOL - Deactivate a Lost/Stolen University ID Card - or in person at the ID Center during regular business hours. Replacing an ID Card Please select your school for specific instructions. Columbia University Faculty, Staff, and Students Barnard College Faculty, Staff, and Students Union Theological Seminary Faculty, Staff, and Students St. Luke's and Other Hospital Staff Additional Information Columbia University Faculty, Staff, and Students Morningside Campus To replace a lost or stolen University ID card on Morningside campus, you must come to the ID Center in 210 Kent Hall during regular business hours with a valid photo ID. Any swipe access you had on your lost card will be deactivated and transferred to your replacement card. In some cases, this may take up to 24 hours to process. Lab or specialty access, and housing access may need to be reloaded onto the new ID card after the new replacement is issued. There is a $20 non-refundable fee for replacement of lost/stolen University ID cards payable by credit card (Visa or Mastercard) or charged directly to your University student account (Columbia University students only). Students must be registered for at least one course in the current term or the term following in order to replace a University ID card. Alumni Reading Cards To replace a lost/stolen Columbia University Alumni Reading Card, you must go to the Library Information Office at 201 Butler. There is a $5.00 fee for the replacement of lost/stolen Alumni Reading Cards (this includes replacement during renewal). Please visit the Columbia University Libraries website for more information. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory To replace a lost/stolen ID card at Lamont-Doherty, you must come to the ID Center in 210 Kent Hall on the Morningside Campus, where you will be issued a new replacement ID card. Barnard College Faculty, Staff, and Students To replace a lost/stolen Barnard College ID, students must go to the ID Center in 210 Kent Hall directly to have a new card printed. There is a $20 non-refundable fee for replacement of lost/stolen University ID cards payable by credit card (Visa or Mastercard). Union Theological Seminary Faculty, Staff, and Students To replace a lost/stolen UTS ID, students must go to the ID Center in 210 Kent Hall directly to have a new card printed. There is a $20 non-refundable fee for replacement of lost/stolen University ID cards payable by credit card (Visa or Mastercard). CUMC and Hospital Staff Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) Medical Center University ID cards are issued by the CUMC ID Office. Faculty, staff, and students must present a government-issued picture ID in order to receive a new card. For more information, contact the CUMC ID office at 212-305-0238, or visit their website at http://cumc.columbia.edu/id/ . St. Luke's Hospital If your appointment is still active according to the Office of Graduate Medical Education (GME), you will need to visit the CUMC ID office, at 212-305-0238, http://cumc.columbia.edu/id/, to be issued a replacement card. To find out about your status with GME, visit the Plant Building (room 2069) or call (212) 523-2154. Other Hospital Affiliates You must obtain an ID authorization form from the Affiliation HR office in room 6208 of the MLK Pavilion. If you have any questions, please contact them at (212) 939-1720. Once this has been done, you will need to visit the CUMC ID office, at 212-305-0238, http://cumc.columbia.edu/id/, with the signed authorization form to have your card replaced. ID Center (Morningside) 210 Kent Hall New York, NY 10027 Email: [email protected] COVID-19 Guidelines Due to social distancing guidelines we are requiring new students, faculty, and staff to upload a photo before we will print an ID Card. https://ssc.columbia.edu/upload-photo New students should NOT visit the ID Center for their cards. Cards will be given to the schools for distribution to new students. Normal proceedings remain in existence for current students and staff. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close