Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home New Student Resources New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Explore Campus Services Explore Campus Services The following information describes some of the services that are provided on campus. We hope this information will help you get settled into your new home quickly. Click on a topic below: Expand all Collapse all Columbia Bookstore The Columbia University Bookstore, located in Lerner Hall, is your source for course materials. Your professors will provide information about required materials on a course syllabus. You are able to rent or buy these physical or digital materials via the bookstore's website by looking up your course on Courseworks or by visiting the Bookstore course materials page. The bookstore will price match textbooks so you can shop with confidence! If you find a lower price on your textbook, price matching is simple. Computing at Columbia Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) provides Columbia University students, faculty and staff with central computing and communications services including email, PawPrint printing services, computer security and other software licensing, online course management, web publishing, and student information applications. CUIT manages Columbia’s high-speed Ethernet network, as well as the wireless network. CUIT also manages an array of computer labs, terminal clusters, and ColumbiaNet kiosks that allow you to use the Internet and electronic classrooms, and provides a variety of technical support services including the CUIT Helpdesk. For technical support, contact CUIT at 212-854-1919 or visit the CUIT website. Environmental Initiatives Columbia University is making great efforts to go green. There are lots of opportunities for you to do your part, even before you get to campus. To learn more, visit the Environmental Stewardship website. Columbia Transportation Columbia University provides a network of shuttle services among its campuses and the surrounding community. Shuttles are available to all Columbia University affiliates with a valid University ID, free of charge. To view routes, maps and detailed schedules, visit Columbia Transportation online. Evening Shuttle and Escort Service Powered by Via, the Evening Shuttle provides free on-demand service within specific zones surrounding the Morningside and Manhattanville areas for safe and convenient travel. The Evening Shuttle operates seven days a week every evening until 4:00 a.m. the following morning, including University holidays. Service begins at 6:00 p.m. in the summer and 4:00 p.m. in the fall and spring semesters. To start using the service, you'll need a promo code. Learn more on the Columbia Transportation website. For those who prefer, Public Safety’s walking escort service, which sends two specially trained students to walk you to your door, is also available seven nights a week from 7:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. Columbia students, faculty, and staff can call 212-854-SAFE (7233) to request this service. Please visit the Public Safety website for additional information regarding the evening walking escort service. University Apartment Housing Housing in University Apartment Housing (UAH) managed buildings is available for full-time students in housing-eligible programs. Please visit the University Apartment Housing website for additional information and details regarding eligibility. Key Tasks for New Students Go Back to Main Page Activate your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Understand University Policies Helpful Videos Deadlines 30 Days Before Registration Submit immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) meningitis decision at least 30 days before class registration.* *If admitted less than 30 days before registration, your ability to register will be on hold until your immunization documentation is received and processed. 2 Weeks Before Your School Orientation Submit a photo online for your University ID card. You will be able to pick up your card when you arrive on campus. Complete the Health History Form. December 15, 2021 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance begins for Spring Term students. Confirm enrollment or request waiver/exception (if eligible). Minor Authorization form due for students under the age of 18. December 20, 2021 First Spring 2022 E-Bill statement emailed to students, estimated Spring term charges and anticipated credits, and an automatic $150.00 term late payment charge applied to any unpaid balance, 1.5% late payment charge on unpaid balances for each billing statement cycle. Late June 2022 Undergraduate students who will be living on campus for the Spring 2022 Term will receive their room assignments and assigned Check-In day and time. August 1, 2022 Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement. Failure to sign the Occupancy Agreement may delay your check-in or jeopardize your room assignment. August 28, 2022 Housing Check-In for new undergraduate residential students. January 28, 2022 (by 10pm for online payments) Payment Due Date for the First Spring E-Bill Statement. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing Schedule. February 1, 2022 Deadline to submit health insurance waiver/exception request to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended feeds. February 15, 2022 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance ends for Fall Term students. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close