Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home Official Documents Diplomas Diplomas Diploma Replacement A lost or damaged diploma will be replaced for a $100 fee when you submit a notarized Application for Replacement of Diploma. IMPORTANT: Please click on the link above to complete the replacement diploma request. Once you have placed the order and received a confirmation email you must send an email, with the subject PARADIGM REPLACEMENT DIPLOMA, to [email protected](link sends e-mail) with the required proof of identification attached. You need to submit two (2) documents as proof of identification. Acceptable forms of identification are a passport, birth certificate, driver's license, or other government issued identification. Your email must include the required documentation for us to authenticate your identity and approve your order and payment. If we do not receive the documentation within ten business days your order will be cancelled and you will not be charged. Any subsequent effort to receive a replacement diploma will require placing a totally new order using the link above. Replacement diplomas display the signatures of the current Columbia University President and Dean of your school but show the original date of the award. Please allow approximately three weeks for a non-expedited domestic delivery of the diploma. Delivery times vary based on destination, expedition requests, and shipping options selected. Questions about ordering a replacement diploma can be emailed to [email protected](link sends e-mail). 212-854-4400 [email protected] Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close