Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home ID Card Submit a Photo for ID Submit a Photo for ID New Students/Faculty/Staff/Contractors Welcome to Columbia! If you are new to Columbia you must submit a photo online for your first University ID card. Before you submit your photo, please read the information provided below. To submit a photo, you must activate your UNI, then log into the secure site to submit your ID photo. You will be prompted to enter your login credentials. You will receive your University ID Card from your school at orientation. If you have questions about picking up your ID Card, please contact your school directly. Do not visit the ID Center for your ID card or to take a photo for your ID Card. ID Card Photo Requirements for New Students To get your Columbia University ID card, you are required to submit a current photo online. The photo should be passport-style and meet the following requirements: The photo should be a color, JPEG file The background should be uniformed and light-colored You must be facing forward, with your head and shoulders clearly visible No photos with sunglasses or hats will be accepted The file cannot exceed 100k in size Please note: The size of the photo must be less than 100 kilobytes. All photo submissions are reviewed before approval. Please note that this is a manual process and approval time is necessary. If you need to resize your photo before submitting, you may do so by using any one of the following applications. Desktop: Picasa, Photoshop, Microsoft Picture Manager (PC only), and iPhoto (Mac only) Online: Web Resizer Mobile: Students and Staff can take a picture of themselves (following the guidelines above) with their phone and upload it via the link above through their phone’s web browser. iPhones will prompt a resize when the photo is selected for upload and the size should be small to conform to the 100K limit. Samsung phones can resize photos in the gallery app. Choose the smallest option. Other Android phones may have different methods. There are also apps available to resize the photo. You can also upload a photo to Facebook or a similar networking site, resize it and then export it to your desktop. Please note this feature is available only to new students/faculty/staff/contractors at Columbia University or affiliated schools - Teachers College, Barnard College, and Union Theological Seminary. Anyone with an existing photo will not be permitted to upload another photo. ID Center (Morningside) 210 Kent Hall New York, NY 10027 Email: [email protected] COVID-19 Guidelines Due to social distancing guidelines we are requiring new students, faculty, and staff to upload a photo before we will print an ID Card. https://ssc.columbia.edu/upload-photo New students should NOT visit the ID Center for their cards. Cards will be given to the schools for distribution to new students. Normal proceedings remain in existence for current students and staff. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close