Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home Official Documents Apostille Process Apostille Process Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use Internationally Frequently, students and alumni need internationally certified copies of a diploma, transcript, academic certification, or other official document. In order to certify these documents for official use internationally, Columbia and other institutions rely on the New York State Department of State. The Department of State issues a Certificate of Authentication in the name of the State of New York for any public document submitted to it. This is also known as the “Apostille” process, and several steps are involved. 1. Your Columbia document must first be certified as genuine by an official in the Office of the University Registrar, 210 Kent Hall, and the signature of that official must be notarized by a notary in that office. There is no fee for this service. a) Apostille service is available by appointment- you or an authorized friend or relative may bring the document(s) in person to 210 Kent Hall, mail it to us, or scan and email to [email protected]. to begin the process, which will require making an appointment. b) We will mail it to an address you provide, or will hold it for you to pick it up. 2. Next, bring your document to the New York County Clerk at 60 Centre St., Room 141B, where the notarial signature must be authenticated. The Clerk’s office charges a small fee for this service. For more information, please see: http://ww2.nycourts.gov/courts/1jd/supctmanh/OfficialVON.shtml 3. Next, arrange for the Department of State to complete the process. Make sure steps one and two are complete, or the Department will reject your document. Again, there is a small fee. You may either: a) You or an authorized friend or relative can bring the document(s) to the New York State Department of State at 123 William St. in lower Manhattan, or b) Mail it to the U.S. Department of State or the NYS Department of State in Albany. For general information on the process, please visit the NYS Department of State website at http://www.dos.ny.gov/corps/apostille.html 212-854-4400 [email protected] Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close