Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home New Student Resources New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Your University ID Card Photo About the University ID Card The University ID card is your passport to Columbia. It grants you access to the Libraries and secure campus locations, allows you to purchase services at campus Dining locations and the University bookstore, and enables you to take advantage of cultural discount programs in New York City. Read more about the many University ID card features. Obtaining a University ID Card To get your Columbia University ID card, you are required to submit a current photo online for your first University ID card. Before you submit your photo, please read the information provided below. To submit a photo, you must activate your UNI, then log into the secure site to submit your ID photo. You will be prompted to enter your login credentials. You will receive your University ID Card from your school at orientation. If you have questions about picking up your ID Card, please contact your school directly. Do not visit the ID Center for your ID card or to take a photo for your ID Card. ID Card Photo Requirements for New Students To get your Columbia University ID card, you are required to submit a current photo online. The photo format should be passport-style and meet the following requirements: The photo should be a color, JPEG file. The background should be uniformed and light-colored. You must be facing forward, with your head and shoulders clearly visible. No photos with sunglasses or hats will be accepted. The file cannot exceed 100k in size. Please note: The size of the photo must be less than 100 kilobytes. All photo submissions are reviewed before approval. Please note that this is a manual process and approval time is necessary. If you need to resize your photo before submitting, you may do so by using any one of the following applications. Desktop: Picasa, Photoshop, Microsoft Picture Manager (PC only), and iPhoto (Mac only) Online: Web Resizer Mobile: Students and Staff can take a picture of themselves (following the guidelines above) with their phone and upload it via the link above through their phone’s web browser. iPhones will prompt a resize when the photo is selected for upload and the size should be small to conform to the 100K limit. Samsung phones can resize photos in the gallery app. Choose the smallest option. Other Android phones may have different methods. There are also apps available to resize the photo. You can also upload a photo to Facebook or a similar networking site, resize it and then export it to your desktop. Please note that this feature is only available to new students/faculty/staff/contractors at Columbia University or affiliated schools - Teachers College, Barnard College and Union Theological Seminary. Anyone with an existing photo will not be permitted to upload another photo. Questions Email the ID Center at [email protected]. Key Tasks for New Students Go Back to Main Page Activate your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement Consider Purchasing Property Insurance Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Be Prepared Helpful Videos Deadlines 30 Days Before Registration Submit immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) meningitis decision at least 30 days before class registration.* *If admitted less than 30 days before registration, your ability to register will be on hold until your immunization documentation is received and processed. 2 Weeks Before Your School Orientation Submit a photo online for your University ID card. You will be able to pick up your card when you arrive on campus. Complete the Health History Form. December 15, 2021 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance begins for Spring Term students. Confirm enrollment or request waiver/exception (if eligible). Minor Authorization form due for students under the age of 18. December 20, 2021 First Spring 2022 E-Bill statement emailed to students, estimated Spring term charges and anticipated credits, and an automatic $150.00 term late payment charge applied to any unpaid balance, 1.5% late payment charge on unpaid balances for each billing statement cycle. Late June 2022 Undergraduate students who will be living on campus will receive their room assignments and assigned Check-In day and time. August 1, 2022 Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement. Failure to sign the Occupancy Agreement may delay your check-in or jeopardize your room assignment. August 27, 2022 Housing Check-In for new (international) students. Bag drop for students who received previous confirmation from Columbia Housing. August 28, 2022 Housing Check-In for new (domestic) students. January 28, 2022 (by 10pm for online payments) Payment Due Date for the First Spring E-Bill Statement. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing Schedule. February 1, 2022 Deadline to submit health insurance waiver/exception request to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended feeds. February 15, 2022 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance ends for Fall Term students. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close