Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Service Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ID Card New Student Resources Registration Official Documents Tuition & Payments Browse by Audience ID Card Features Obtain an ID Card Replace an ID Card Submit a Photo for ID ID Center New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies New GS, Graduate, Visiting/Transfer, Postbacc & Certificate Students Activate Your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll or Request to Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign Up for Meal Plans, Dining Dollars, and Flex Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Helpful Videos All Using Student Services Online (SSOL) The Academic Calendar Planning Your Courses with Vergil Understanding Your School Expenses Financial Aid When to Expect Your Bill How to Pay Your Bill Authorizing a Payer Getting Direct Deposit Verifying Your Attendance Transcripts Certifications Diplomas Apostille Process Forms Third Party Ordering About Tuition and Payments Stipends Billing Schedule Making a Payment Payment Plan Students New Students Current Students International Students Administrators Parents Student Service Center You are here: Home New Student Resources New CC & SEAS Undergraduates Explore Campus Services Explore Campus Services The following information describes some of the services that are provided on campus. We hope this information will help you get settled into your new home quickly. Click on a topic below: Expand all Collapse all Columbia Bookstore The Columbia University Bookstore, located in Lerner Hall, is your source for course materials. Your professors will provide information about required materials on a course syllabus. You are able to rent or buy these physical or digital materials via the bookstore's website by looking up your course on Courseworks or by visiting the Bookstore course materials page. The bookstore will price match textbooks so you can shop with confidence! If you find a lower price on your textbook, price matching is simple. Computing at Columbia Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) provides Columbia University students, faculty, and staff with central computing and communications services including email, PawPrint printing services, computer security and other software licensing, online course management, web publishing, and student information applications. CUIT manages Columbia’s high-speed Ethernet network, as well as the wireless network. CUIT also manages an array of computer labs, terminal clusters, and ColumbiaNet kiosks that allow you to use the internet and electronic classrooms, and provides a variety of technical support services including the CUIT Helpdesk. For technical support, contact CUIT at 212-854-1919 or visit the CUIT website. Environmental Initiatives Columbia University is making great strides to go green. There are lots of opportunities for you to do your part, even before you get to campus. To learn more, visit the Environmental Stewardship website and read about Columbia Housing's Sustainability Initiatives. LED Bulbs When purchasing desk lamps for your room, we encourage you to buy LED bulbs. EcoReps EcoReps are a group of students who work in partnership with Columbia Housing, Columbia Dining and the Office of Environmental Stewardship to provide peer to peer sustainability resources for Columbia students. This means publicizing available environmental services to students, serving as a bridge of communication between students and the administration, and facilitating campus projects for a reduced university ecological footprint. CU EcoReps is one chapter of a national student movement. Applications for members open in early Fall and Spring each term, and first-year students are encouraged to apply. Visit the EcoReps website for more information Give + Go Green EcoReps, in conjunction with Columbia Housing and local charities, organize a campaign to help make donating your stuff to local charities easy during Check-Out. Students need simply bring their unwanted items to a drop-off location instead of throwing them in the trash. EcoReps take care of the rest. Donated items are sold to students at the Green Sale. Follow the EcoReps online for more details. Housekeeping and Maintenance Requests Columbia University Facilities handles housekeeping and maintenance requests for all residence halls and brownstones. To place a non-emergency maintenance request, go to the Housing website, select “Request Maintenance” and follow the instructions. Examples of maintenance requests include lock changes or repairs, missing furniture, malfunctioning plumbing, repair or replacement of safety equipment, and lack of heat or air-conditioning, if applicable. Laundry Laundry facilities are located in each residence hall and are accessible 24 hours a day. Using LaundryView Online, you can check for machine availability and cycle timing through the Housing website (go to housing.columbia.edu and click "LaundryView"). Laundry is free to undergraduate students living in the residence halls. Columbia Mail Undergraduate mail is coordinated by Columbia Mail. Mail service is available to undergraduate residents of Columbia Housing only. A student retains the same mailbox number for the duration of their residence in Columbia Housing, unless they take a voluntary leave of absence, withdraw from classes, or move off-campus. The U.S. Postal Service and couriers like FedEx deliver mail directly to the Student Mail Center in the lower level of Wien Hall. Address Format Columbia Housing residents use their UNI as the mailbox number to receive mail at Columbia. When letters and packages are sent to your campus address, it is important that the following format always be used: Student’s Full Name [Your UNI] Columbia Student Mail 70 Morningside Drive New York, NY 10027-7236 #### equals your 4-digit mailbox number. Important Notes The word “box” should never be used in the address. Mail should never be sent to a student’s residence hall address. Please make sure to include the +4-digit in the zip code. See more information on the Mail website. Packages When a package is delivered to the Student Mail Center, a notification email is sent to the student for pick up. When a student is shipped a package that is clearly marked “perishable,” an email entitled "Perishable Item" will be sent to the student for pick up. All parcels are kept for 14 days. If not picked up within 7 days, a second email is sent letting the student know his or her package is scheduled for return. The student then has 7 days before that package is returned. Perishable and oversized bulk packages will be held for no more than 7 days, as there is no refrigeration available. Receiving Mail Columbia Mail usually receives two deliveries of mail a day. Magazines usually arrive with the afternoon delivery. Mail received before 12 p.m. is boxed before the end of the business day, while mail received after 12 p.m. may carry over to the next day. Sending Mail and Packages Outgoing mail can be placed in a USPS mailbox or in one of the outgoing mail slots on the 3rd and 4th floors of Lerner Hall. The Student Mail Center provides FedEx shipping services to the Columbia community at discounted rates that are more competitive than FedEx online and in-store rates. The Student Mail Center also sells packing supplies and miscellaneous items. Note that the Mail Center does not sell stamps Columbia Mail Website Visit Columbia Mail online or email any questions to [email protected]. Phone Services Each residence hall is equipped with a hall phone for outgoing local, toll-free and emergency calls. There are no phones appointed in rooms. If necessary, students can request a room phone by emailing [email protected]. Property Insurance The University assumes no responsibility for a resident's personal property while they live in the residence halls. The University strongly recommends that students living on campus purchase property (renters) insurance on their own or ensure that they are covered by their parents’ or guardians’ property (homeowners) insurance. Insurance coverage is the responsibility of each individual student. Refrigerators Refrigerators are not provided in first-year residence halls. You may keep a refrigerator in your room as long as its volume does not exceed 2.5 cubic feet. Columbia Housing facilitates refrigerator-microwave combination unit rentals for students through MicroFridge. MicroFridge units are delivered to student rooms before their arrival. Note that other than MicroFridge combination units, which meet our size and energy requirements, microwave ovens are prohibited in rooms. If you do not wish to bring your own refrigerator, you may purchase one at the Columbia University Bookstore or at the EcoReps' Green Sale. Columbia Housing has provided this information strictly for your convenience. Students have the right and ability to select the vendor of their choice. Columbia Transportation Columbia University provides a network of shuttle services among its campuses and the surrounding community. Shuttles are available to all Columbia University affiliates with a valid University ID, free of charge. To view routes, maps and detailed schedules, visit Columbia Transportation online. Evening Shuttle and Escort Service Powered by Via, the Evening Shuttle provides free on-demand service within specific zones surrounding the Morningside and Manhattanville areas for safe and convenient travel. The Evening Shuttle operates seven days a week every evening until 4:00 a.m. the following morning, including University holidays. Service begins at 6:00 p.m. in the summer and 4:00 p.m. in the fall and spring semesters. To start using the service, you'll need a promo code. Learn more on the Columbia Transportation website. For those who prefer, Public Safety’s walking escort service, which sends two specially trained students to walk you to your door, is also available seven nights a week from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. Columbia students, faculty, and staff can call 212-854-SAFE (7233) to request this service. Please visit the Public Safety website for additional information regarding the evening shuttle and walking escort service. Key Tasks for New Students Go Back to Main Page Activate your UNI Submit Your University ID Card Photo Submit Immunization Documentation Enroll in or Waive Health Insurance Complete Student Health History Form Register with Disability Services Pay Your E-Bill and Understand Financial Aid Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement Consider Purchasing Property Insurance Plan Your Arrival Explore Campus Services Follow University Policies Be Prepared Helpful Videos Deadlines 30 Days Before Registration Submit immunization documentation for (1) measles, mumps, rubella; (2) seasonal influenza; (3) COVID-19; and (4) meningitis decision at least 30 days before class registration.* *If admitted less than 30 days before registration, your ability to register will be on hold until your immunization documentation is received and processed. 2 Weeks Before Your School Orientation Submit a photo online for your University ID card. You will be able to pick up your card when you arrive on campus. Complete the Health History Form. December 15, 2021 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance begins for Spring Term students. Confirm enrollment or request waiver/exception (if eligible). Minor Authorization form due for students under the age of 18. December 20, 2021 First Spring 2022 E-Bill statement emailed to students, estimated Spring term charges and anticipated credits, and an automatic $150.00 term late payment charge applied to any unpaid balance, 1.5% late payment charge on unpaid balances for each billing statement cycle. Late June 2022 Undergraduate students who will be living on campus will receive their room assignments and assigned Check-In day and time. August 1, 2022 Sign your Housing Occupancy Agreement. Failure to sign the Occupancy Agreement may delay your check-in or jeopardize your room assignment. August 27, 2022 Housing Check-In for new (international) students. Bag drop for students who received previous confirmation from Columbia Housing. August 28, 2022 Housing Check-In for new (domestic) students. January 28, 2022 (by 10pm for online payments) Payment Due Date for the First Spring E-Bill Statement. Visit the Student Financial Services website for the complete Billing Schedule. February 1, 2022 Deadline to submit health insurance waiver/exception request to ensure adequate time for processing and to avoid unintended feeds. February 15, 2022 Open enrollment for Student Health Insurance ends for Fall Term students. Student Service Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 ID Center (Morningside)210 Kent Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4400 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close