Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Dean's Message SSE Dean’s Hero Award Facts and Figures Mission Facilities Dean’s Office Staff Board of Advisors Endowed Chairs & Professorships Endowed Scholarships & Fellowships Other Endowed Funds Named Facilities ROTC SSE Newsletters Department Newsletters Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Graduate Prospective Students Departments Faculty & Staff Find Faculty by Department Find SSE Staff Faculty and Staff Resources Research Centers & Institutes Funding Opportunities Sponsored Projects Administration Seminars and Colloquia SSE Videos SMART REU Experience Outstanding Researcher Award Faculty Awards Alumni Alumni Awards Alumni News Alumni Resources Join the Council Council Members Giving SoE Legacy Site Hall of Fame Giving Give to SSE Capital Campaign Why Give? Impact Sustainers Contact Us Outreach K-12 STEM Education Outreach Public Service SMART REU Experience Start-Ups Industry Collaboration News SSE News 2020-2021 SSE News 2006-2018 E-Newsletter Archive Annual Report Archive Department Newsletters SSE Videos Events Calendar Graduation Events 2022 2022 Engineering Capstone Design Expo Tulane Engineering Forum (TEF) Lower Mississippi River Science Symposium Seminars and Colloquia Presentations Concerns Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... SCHOOL OF SCIENCE & ENGINEERING School of Science & Engineering Learn. Discover. Collaborate. Innovate. The Tulane University School of Science and Engineering combines the very best of a top tier research university with a strong commitment to high quality undergraduate education. Our faculty, who conduct research at the forefront of their disciplines, offer outstanding degree programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. The School of Science and Engineering generates millions in research dollars for the University, champions undergraduate research opportunities, and annually graduates the largest number of doctoral students at Tulane. The SSE is a proud recipient of the Bronze Award for the ASEE Diversity Recognition Program for 2020-2022 Science & Engineering News Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains Just do it – Runsdorf Award winners embody the spirit of public service Graduate learns to ‘keep going’ for herself and others Tulane geologist honored by National Academies of Sciences View School of Science & Engineering News Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions School of Science and Engineering 201 Lindy Claiborne Boggs Center 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118-5698 Telephone: 504-865-5764 Email: sse@tulane.edu News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University