Logon Sign in to your account Logon System Messages Don't be a victim! Employees of The Texas A&M University System continue to be targeted in "phishing" schemes by parties wishing to gain access to the A&M System's secure applications and your personal information. This site - https://sso.tamus.edu - is the ONLY site authorized to collect your SSO UIN and password. If you use a campus or agency federated logon, please educate yourself on the sites and systems authorized to collect that username and password. The best way to protect yourself from phishing is to use two factor authentication. If you use the SSO UIN logon, please enroll today. If you use a federated logon, contact your local IT organization and ask about two factor authentication. Visit the SSO news page for updates, to protect yourself from phishing, or to view a phishing email and another. UIN Logon UIN: Required!Invalid UIN! Password: Required! Your password contains invalid characters Trouble Logging In? New Employees – Set up your password I forgot my password Use your one-time (temporary) password All logon attempts are logged. Campus or Agency Logon If you are an active employee or affiliate, you can now logon using a Campus or Agency Logon like NetID or Island ID. More information... TAMU NetID Island ID HSC TAMUCT Tarleton AgriLife TTI Qatar PVAMU WTAMU TEEX TAMIU TAMFS Commerce Single Sign-On is the system which handles your logon access to web based applications which have chosen to use Single Sign-On as their authentication method. After logging in, you will be presented with a list of applications for which you may be authorized. If you are unsure of your password, choose one of the options below the Submit button, or contact your HR departmental representative or your central HR office. This computer system and data herein are available only for authorized purposes by authorized users. Use for any other purpose may result in administrative/disciplinary actions or criminal prosecution against the user. Usage may be subject to security testing and monitoring. Applicable privacy laws establish the expectations of privacy. System Enterprise Applications Office of Information Technology The Texas A&M University System Privacy Statement 5/19/2022 5:03:37 PM 5.3.0.30708