Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Brochure Staff Summer Employment Program Information Academics Campus Life Student Experience Admissions and Tuition Program Dates Application Steps Tuition & Fees Payment Information Scholarships Apply Now Application Deadlines Admitted Student Information Contact Us FAQS Connect with an Advisor About Program Information Admissions and Tuition Apply Now Admitted Student Information Contact Us Search About Brochure Staff Summer Employment Program Information Academics Campus Life Student Experience Admissions and Tuition Program Dates Application Steps Tuition & Fees Payment Information Scholarships Apply Now Application Deadlines Admitted Student Information Contact Us FAQS Connect with an Advisor Home AAA University of Miami Precollege Two- and Three-Week Sessions: July 3 - July 22, 2022 College for High School Students University of Miami Precollege Two- and Three-Week Sessions: July 3 - July 22, 2022 College for High School Students University of Miami Precollege Two- and Three-Week Sessions: July 3 - July 22, 2022 College for High School Students Apply Today! Still accepting applications for Summer 2022 Apply Today! Still accepting applications for Summer 2022 Summer Scholars | Three-week Credit Program The University of Miami Summer Scholars Program provides an exciting opportunity for current high school sophomores and juniors to explore their academic passions and experience what it's like to be a college student. This unique three-week precollege program allows students to earn college credit, interact with world class professors, make lasting friendships and grow as independent thinkers. July 3 - July 22, 2022 | Read more > Download Brochure Preview College Life "This program was the best three weeks of my life! I met amazing students from around the world and discovered that we share the same interests. I loved earning six credits in the major I want to pursue, and I gained valuable time management skills that I use every day. I had an amazing time, and I know others will too." Summer Scholars Student | Michael D. | Illinois Apply Now UM Summer Scholars 2016 from Trevor Green on Vimeo. Student arrival | July 3 WEEKS DAYS HOURS MINUTES SECONDS UM Academies | 2-Week Courses The Summer Scholars UM Academies offer two-week, non-credit enrichment courses for high school freshmen, sophomores and juniors. Take an in-depth look at some of the most powerful storms on this planet – hurricanes – in the Hurricane Academy in partnership with the University of Miami’s Department of Atmospheric Science; learn from entrepreneurs and bring your business ideas to life in the Business Academy, or strengthen your communication skills and gain proficiency in the Spanish Immersion Academy. July 3 - July 15, 2022 | Read more > Explore the fundamentals of Earth’s weather and climate system. A Taste of 'Cane Life “It was probably the greatest three weeks of my life!” says the New Yorker. “The level of responsibility I was given made me feel like an adult. It made me feel like I was already a part of the University of Miami community.” Zachary D. | Read more > Discovering My Passion for Marine Science “How my time as a UM Summer Scholar in the Tropical Marine Biology program has prepared me for college life, and a future career as a scientist.” Madison Z. | Read more > University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Summer Scholars Program 5050 Brunson Drive Room 111 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4000 305-284-4000 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices