Skip to content Contact Search About Mission & History The Connection Signature Centers & Initiatives Find People IT Support Locations & Facilities Research Applied Research, Evaluation & Engagement Project Collaboration & Proposal Development Lab-based Social and Behavioral Research Consulting & Training Partnerships Education Consulting & Training Bass Connections: EHD Theme Program for Advanced Research in the Social Sciences (PARISS) Master in Interdisciplinary Data Science (MIDS) Open Source Pedagogy, Research + Innovation (OSPRI) Social Science Research Lab Data Triangle Research Data Center (TRDC) Protected Analytics Computing Environment (PACE) Projects Community Health Disparities COVID-19 Education American South Data Science Bass Connections All Projects Community Improving Workplace Well-being among Pediatric Physicians Reports of physician burnout have reached alarming rates, and most interventions focus on the individual. Emphasis on burnout distracts from … Read More Outreach & Engagement News Events Diversity & Inclusion SSRI Grant Program 2022 Projects Grow Here Connecting researchers in the social sciences. Applied Research, Evaluation & Engagement We help develop campus and community programs and foster connections between Duke and the broader community. Get Training Master in Interdisciplinary Data Science MIDS is home for creative problem-solvers who want to use data strategically to advance society. About MIDS Signature Centers & Initiatives Faculty, researchers, students, and staff work together to focus on specific social science problem or issue. Collaborate Project Collaboration & Proposal Development Learn about new funding opportunities, how to submit a high-quality proposal and get funded, and collaborate with other researchers. Find Funding SSRI Grant Program Announces Awards The Social Science Research Institute (SSRI) invited grant applications from Duke University faculty to study social science research topics of their choice. The size of the grants range from $5,000 to $25,000. Social Scientists Get Funding DUPRI research team uses electronic health records to study population of Durham County children New research demonstrating the efficacy of using electronic health records (EHRs) to assess children’s population health. Using EHRs to assess health MTV partners with MIDS to study access to voting on college campuses MTV partnered with a team of students working on their MIDS capstone project to study access to voting on college campuses. Making Voting Easier for Students Robert Calderbank (MIDS) elected member of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Four members of the Duke faculty were elected SSRI Grant Program Announces Awards The Social Science Research Institute (SSRI) invited grant applications from Duke University faculty to study social science research topics of their choice. The size of the grants range from $5,000 to $25,000. Social Scientists Get Funding DUPRI research team uses electronic health records to study population of Durham County children New research demonstrating the efficacy of using electronic health records (EHRs) to assess children’s population health. Using EHRs to assess health MTV partners with MIDS to study access to voting on college campuses MTV partnered with a team of students working on their MIDS capstone project to study access to voting on college campuses. Making Voting Easier for Students SSRI News Duke Students Design Innovative Solutions to Wellness Challenges April 21, 2022 Read More Prove & Improve: Community Data & Evaluation Skill-Building Series April 18, 2022 Read More Register for Community-Engaged Research Mini-Course April 14, 2022 Read More Duke Demographers’ Tribute to James W. Vaupel (1945-2022) April 13, 2022 Read More Duke Programs Collaborate to Hire a Postdoc April 12, 2022 Read More MTV and MIDS Students Partner Capstone Project on Early Voting March 10, 2022 Read More Events@ Prove & Improve: Community Data & Evaluation Skill-Building Series May 24, 2022 11:00pm Are you wondering how to advance data-informed decision-making and understanding of impact? Curious about how to incorporate evaluation into your organization’s programming? Join us for a two-day skill-building series Introduction to Patient-Reported Outcome Measures June 14, 2022 1:00pm Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are widely used to evaluate the impact of interventions from the patients’ perspective. This workshop is designed to familiarize participants with opportunities for integrating PRO measures Qualitative Study Designs for Applications in Patient-Reported Outcome Measures June 15, 2022 9:00am In this workshop, we will explore why qualitative studies are fundamental for successful development of new PRO measures, and for integrating PRO measures into clinical studies. We will define Email: ssri@duke.edu Phone: 919.681.6019 Gross Hall, 2nd Floor 140 Science Drive Durham, NC 27708 2024 W. Main St. Durham, NC 27705 The Latest from SSRI Robert Calderbank (MIDS) elected member of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences April 29, 2022 Duke Students Design Innovative Solutions to Wellness Challenges April 21, 2022 SSRI Quick Links Find People SSRI Projects Affiliates Projects Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Privacy Statement | Site Map Privacy Statement | Policies | Site Map Copyright© 2022 Duke Social Science Research Institute Scroll to Top