retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Resources for Reps Get Involved Submit an Issue Search Search Who We Are Representatives and Districts Officers and Committees Who's My Representative What We Do Accomplishments Committee Reports Meetings Resolutions How we work Bylaws and SOP Issues Process Professional Development Resources for Reps Meetings News UT Staff Council 2019 UT Staff Council The UT Staff Council (UTSC) is comprised of elected representatives who are employed in classified and administrative and professional (A&P) positions. UTSC supports a variety of activities and initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life and effectiveness of the university’s dedicated and valuable staff members. The organization’s work is informed by the core values of advocacy, collaboration, and transparency. This set of core values informs the projects representatives work on, the way in which UTSC communicates with constituents and stakeholders, and the effort given towards cultivating and maintaining trust within the community. We encourage you to get involved and attend UTSC’s monthly meetings, either in-person or virtually. Our Core Values Advocacy - Serving staff by representing their best interests to the university community. - Fostering a pathway of communication between upper administration and our constituents. - Seeking diversity in membership, perspectives, and ideas when representing staff culture. Collaboration - Creating a sense of community by forging effective partnerships with campus stakeholders. - Executing projects that are valuable to the organization. Transparency - Maintaining honest and transparent communications and processes. - Remaining accountable to ourselves and to our constituents by holding open meetings and publicizing our decisions. - Intentionally sharing unbiased information with our stakeholders. Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events Latest News Join Us! May 2022 General Meeting and News from the Chair May 17, 2022 Join Us! April 2022 General Meeting and News from the Chair April 18, 2022 Join Us! March 2022 General Meeting and News from the Chair March 22, 2022 Join Us! February 2022 General Meeting Invitation Feb. 14, 2022 Join Us! January 2022 General Meeting Invitation Jan. 17, 2022 December 2021 News from the Chair Dec. 20, 2021 A Message from President Hartzell If you’ve had the opportunity to live, work or spend time on the Forty Acres, chances are you’ve had a profound experience of some kind here. It may have been in a classroom, or a lab, or a theater, or at DKR — really, anywhere where Longhorns change the world. And, both that “anywhere” and the life-changing experience itself were only possible because of the dedicated efforts of staff members who support UT’s mission at every level. Their work powers our campus and operations so that our community can do what it does best — discover, learn and teach. Then, we can all impact society. The UT Staff Council has a very important role to play in making sure that our staff members have a voice and platform to directly shape the policies and practices of the university. These elected representatives help guide leadership decisions and work closely with many university officials and me to ensure that we always keep the interests, opinions and concerns of staff members at the front of our minds. As President, I couldn’t be more grateful to have this special partnership with the Staff Council and I look forward to accomplishing great things together in the months ahead. To all members of Staff Council — and to the thousands of UT staff members across campus — thank you for bringing your heart, energy and unparalleled commitment to our great university each and every day. I appreciate you and am thrilled to be working for you. Jay Hartzell, President The University of Texas at Austin Benefits of UT Staff Council Membership Special access to programs, initiatives, and opportunities across campus Including information on professional development grants, free campus showers, etc. Opportunities to represent the interests and concerns to campus leadership Including your department and neighboring departments Opportunities to build relationships across the campus community Opportunities for strengthening your professional skills Including written communication, negotiation, strategy, project management, delegating, public speaking, building partnerships, and managing without formal authority. Opportunities to meet University senior leadership Including the university President and others that report directly to the university President. Opportunities to identify needs, devise solutions, and build programs Practice taking a leadership role in solving problems and responding to needs. Connect with Staff Council FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter Tweets from UTSC UT Austin Staff Council UTStaffCouncil #UTSC20for20: The @UTAustin Staff Emergency Fund was established in 2003 with help from #UTSC!… https://t.co/oVriJpaP6j 6 days 15 hours ago UT Austin Staff Council UTStaffCouncil Today's #UTSC20for20 accomplishment? Working with campus partners to help establish a @UTUnivOmbuds for Staff posit… https://t.co/GQobrAyoTO 1 week 6 days ago UT Austin Staff Council UTStaffCouncil Another #UTSC accomplishment? Collaborating with @BlantonMuseum to offer free museum admission to @UTAustin staff!… https://t.co/LfzgSYoFTX 2 weeks 6 days ago UT Austin Staff Council UTStaffCouncil Along with @UTAustin partners, #UTSC helped secure a campus-wide @LI_learning (formerly Lynda) subscription for pro… https://t.co/3l9hr62xwn 1 month ago ⇄ UT Austin Staff Council Retweeted UT Health Austin uthealthaustin Spring Cleaning? Remember to dispose of unwanted prescriptions too! April 30 is #NationalPrescriptionTakeBack day.… https://t.co/6qXfEeX6jV 1 month ago View all UTSC tweets Our mission is to promote a positive, collaborative work environment via assessment, prioritization, and communication of staff needs. Email: chair@utsc.utexas.edu FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Who's My Rep Get involved Submit an Issue UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022