Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU STAFF PORTAL Search Departments and Committees Departments and Teams Standing Committees Task Forces, Councils, Discussion and Advisory Groups Our Work Strategic Directions EDIBA Digitization Program DIBAR (wiki) ⇲ On-Campus Info for Staff (wiki) ⇲ Org Review (wiki) ⇲ Tools Brand, Voice and Logo Claim Your Staff Directory Profile Learning Object Library Stay informed Templates Events, Learning & Awards Staff Events Calendar ⇲ Fellowships and Awards Programs Public Events Calendar ⇲ About About Harvard Library ⇲ Staff Directory ⇲ Leadership and Governance HL and HCL Administration Organization charts Media and filming requests Internships News blog Welcome, Library Staff Find information on library strategic priorities, departments, committees, and news. Quick Links Harvard Library HR PeopleSoft IT Support Desk Financial Applications Concur Software Download, FAS Media Inquiry? Contact Library Communications LATEST COVID UPDATE COVID Update: Transition to Optional Testing Program April 25, 2022 Dear Harvard Library colleagues, As of this Thursday, April 28, COVID-19 testing will be optional for staff. Residential students will move to optional testing on May 10. Please see President Bacow's full announcement.... Read more about COVID Update: Transition to Optional Testing Program STAFF NEWS Discovery and Access Collaborates: Designing Digital Course Reserves During the Pandemic May 27, 2022 The need for an all-digital course reserves service provided a considerable challenge for staff when the libraries went virtual. ... Read more about Discovery and Access Collaborates: Designing Digital Course Reserves During the Pandemic See also: Discovery and AccessRead more Preservation Services Across Campus: Houghton Library May 17, 2022 ... Read more about Preservation Services Across Campus: Houghton LibraryRead more Erin Conor Appointed Richard F. French Librarian of Loeb Music Library May 12, 2022 Dear Colleagues — I am extremely pleased to announce that Erin Conor will be joining us as our new Richard F. French Librarian of the Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library. As the French Librarian, Erin will lead and manage the staff, budget, operations, and programs that support a diverse array of research and teaching activities centered in the Music Library’s collections. Erin brings an exceptional blend of experience, knowledge, and abilities to this role, along with a strong track record of success as a librarian, leader, and manager. Erin will begin her role at Harvard on September 1.... Read more about Erin Conor Appointed Richard F. French Librarian of Loeb Music Library See also: Loeb Music Library, Library LeadershipRead more Jidong Yang Appointed Librarian for Harvard-Yenching Library May 9, 2022 Dear Harvard Library Colleagues — I am very pleased to announce that Dr. Jidong Yang has been appointed to the position of Librarian of Harvard-Yenching Library, which he will assume officially on August 1, 2022. Jidong brings an exceptional blend of experience, knowledge, and abilities to this role, as well as a strong track record of professional leadership on the local, national, and international levels. Jidong Yang is currently serving as the Head of East Asia Library of Stanford University. His position has enabled him to work with a large and technologically... Read more about Jidong Yang Appointed Librarian for Harvard-Yenching Library See also: Harvard-Yenching LibraryRead more Take Note May 3, 2022 Take Note shares professional news about Harvard Library staff members. Have something to share? Please send it to the Harvard Library communications team at harvard_library@harvard.edu.... Read more about Take Note See also: Take NoteRead more More Contact Us Staff Directory Office of the Provost Library.Harvard HOLLIS HOLLIS Images HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Accessibility Privacy HarvardLibrary Happy birthday, #WaltWhitman! In celebration of the poet's birthday, sail away with his handwritten manuscript of Passage to India. Held at @HoughtonLib, but viewable online here: t.co/u4CvnqPJcf t.co/Dg3GOrnw61 1 day 2 hours ago. COVID19 CS 799883022d4cb62d5f9561deaf1ba647 805fdf17c885191d6471cc2d7df89dff cece9188235d22c0ddedab2287b1107f Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement