Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search More from us... Council of UC Staff Assemblies UCR Human Resources UC Riverside Staff Assembly Many Talents, One Mission Search Home About About Overview Annual Report Budget & Income Bylaws Council of University of California Staff Assemblies (CUCSA) Executive Board Information for Supervisors Minutes Mission, Purpose and Goals Past Boards Awards/Programs Awards & Programs Overview CUCSA Award Programs Outstanding Staff Awards Outstanding Staff Awards Nomination Form Get Recognized Get Recognized Nomination Form Professional Development Service Awards Staff Plaza and Memorial Garden Events UCR Staff Conference Events Overview Community Partner Week Google's Matt Sakaguchi on Teambuilding Halloween Costume Contest Holiday Party Outreach Promotion Quarterly General Meetings Staff Engagement Survey and Forum UCRSA Co-Sponsored Events Virtual 5K Get Involved Giving Giving Overview Corporate Sponsorship Opportunities Society '54 Scholarships/Aid Scholarships & Aid Overview Emergency Assistance for Staff Scholarships Previous Scholarship Recipients UCR Home More from us... Council of UC Staff Assemblies UCR Human Resources Watch the replays See Upcoming Events Previous Next Breadcrumb Enhancing the Staff Experience at UCR UCR Staff Assembly is an association of many employees dedicated to promoting the interests and welfare of all UCR staff. It seeks to inform, involve, connect and recognize staff in one of the fastest-growing campuses in the UC system. Want to get involved with Staff Assembly? Learn more about volunteering. Staff Assembly stands with our UCR staff See the letters of support we sent to the Board of Regents in June 2020 and September 2021, and to Chancellor Kim A. Wilcox. See the results 2021 Staff Engagement Survey UCR 2021 Staff Engagement Survey (short version) UCR 2021 Staff Engagement Survey (long version) All Sharable Data from the 2021 UCR Staff Engagement Survey FAQs for Engagement Surveys UC staff workforce profiles UCR HR Structural & Operational Assessment from January 2022 2021 Flexible Work Survey Staff Flexible Work Survey Results (June 2021) and Remote Work Information 2019 Staff Engagement Survey University of California 2019 Staff Engagement Survey Take the survey What solutions do you have to improve the campus culture at UCR? Tell us what you think The University of California Office of the President invites comments on a proposed Presidential Policy on Abusive Conduct/Bullying in the Workplace. The proposed policy covers abusive conduct/bullying and retaliation by and against members of the University community in the workplace. Learn more Three Pillars of Staff Assembly UCR Staff Assembly is built upon three main pillars: Recognition, Engagement and Professional Development. Recognition Milestone recognition held at our general meetings Monthly Get Recognized Program Outstanding Staff Awards Engagement Community Partner Fair Annual Holiday Event Departmental Outreach Staff Engagement Survey and Forums Professional Development Scholarships available to assist with degree attainment, books, conferences, workshops, etc. Join the Staff Assembly Mailing List Do you want to stay up to date with the latest information from UCR Staff Assembly? We invite you to join our Staff Mailing List. The list is opt-in and you may remove yourself at any time. Enter your name and email below and you will be taken through the subscription process. You will receive a confirmation email to confirm your subscription and as well as information on how to manage your account or unsubscribe. Your E-mail address: Your Name: Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UCR Staff Assembly Hinderaker Hall, B0105 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-6368 Staff Assembly Executive Board: staffassembly@ucr.edu Staff Assembly President: jeff.girod@ucr.edu Related Links Council of UC Staff Assemblies UCR Human Resources Follow US: UCR Staff Assembly on Facebook UCR Staff Assembly on Twitter UCR Staff Assembly on YouTube UCR Staff Assembly on Instagram UCR Staff Assembly on LinkedIn Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel