Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip Navigation UConn University of Connecticut Search University of Connecticut Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Search Stamford Menu Press enter to search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Aid Visiting Campus Admitted Students About Overview of Campus Maps and Directions Campus Administration Safety Faculty Directory Academics Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Programs Internships Academic Resources Student Life Student Resources Housing NY Metro Living Downtown Stamford Student Involvement Info For Current Students Faculty and Staff Veterans Alumni APPLY VISIT GIVE U-Kindness U-Kindness is a University-wide initiative intended to inform, engage, and connect with students throughout the University during the COVID-19 pandemic Learn More Academic Excellence At UConn Stamford, you’ll get all the benefits of a prestigious public research university in a small college setting. UConn Stamford was founded in 1952 and moved downtown in 1998, putting our students at the center of a robust business community and energizing city. Learning opportunities both in and out of the classroom dare you to achieve more than you ever imagined. Quick Train Ride To NYC Over 750+ Internships 12 Bachelor's Degree Programs Top 3 Reasons to Enroll Diversity Internships Community Campus Housing UConn Stamford is at the heart of it all. You can be, too. New apartment-style student housing puts UConn Stamford students at the center of this robust city, steps from the UConn Stamford campus, internship opportunities, cultural experiences, and more. Stamford Campus Housing Important Deadlines Priority First-Year Application Deadline for Merit Scholarship & Honors Consideration. Notification of Admission Begins March 1 Dec 01 FAFSA Financial Aid Eligibility Notification of Financial Awards Begins Mid-March Feb 15 Fall First-Year Student and transfer application Admission decisions are made on a rolling basis May 01 Spring First-Year Student and Transfer Application Admissions are made on a rolling basis Oct 01 New York City Easily visit New York City, which is just a quick train ride away — you can take the free campus shuttle to and from the train station. Our proximity to the city offers tremendous access to internships, field placements, and employment with Fortune 500 companies, investment and banking institutions, and community-based organizations; as well as all of the cultural and entertainment opportunities that NYC has to offer! UConn News Anne D’Alleva Appointed Interim Provost Gilman-McCain Scholarship Winner Is a First for UConn UConn Stamford Campus Director Named First-Generation Students Now Have Special Commencement Tradition Upcoming Events Jun 2, 2022 | 5:30 PM Stock Market Competition https://www.marketwatch.com/game/fmc-fall-21 Stamford Campus Jun 2, 2022 | 6:00 PM SGA: General Senate Meeting Stamford campus building Stamford Campus Jun 9, 2022 | 5:30 PM Stock Market Competition https://www.marketwatch.com/game/fmc-fall-21 Stamford Campus Jun 9, 2022 | 6:00 PM SGA: General Senate Meeting Stamford campus building Stamford Campus Stock Market Competition Jun 9, 2022 | 6:00 PM Stamford Campus - https://www.marketwatch.com/game/fmc-fall-21 06/02/2022 Want to test your stock market skill? Think you know what it takes to gain the market? Join us for our semesterly Market Watch Competition! Test your stock knowledge in a MarketWatch game with $100,000 starting funds. Top 6 players with the highest portfolios by the end of the competition get a prize! Competition begins the day after our first Fall '21 meeting on September 16th. Late entries permitted. Get trading! https://uconntact.uconn.edu/organization/financial_management Close SGA: General Senate Meeting Jun 9, 2022 | 6:00 PM Stamford Campus - Stamford campus building 06/02/2022 Hey Huskies! Be sure to join us during our SGA General Senate Meetings this semester! We hope to see you there! Close Stock Market Competition Jun 9, 2022 | 6:00 PM Stamford Campus - https://www.marketwatch.com/game/fmc-fall-21 06/09/2022 Want to test your stock market skill? Think you know what it takes to gain the market? Join us for our semesterly Market Watch Competition! Test your stock knowledge in a MarketWatch game with $100,000 starting funds. Top 6 players with the highest portfolios by the end of the competition get a prize! Competition begins the day after our first Fall '21 meeting on September 16th. Late entries permitted. Get trading! https://uconntact.uconn.edu/organization/financial_management Close SGA: General Senate Meeting Jun 9, 2022 | 6:00 PM Stamford Campus - Stamford campus building 06/09/2022 Hey Huskies! Be sure to join us during our SGA General Senate Meetings this semester! We hope to see you there! Close All Events » Home Admissions About Academics Student Life Info For Bring it Cable Box Request University of Connecticut Stamford Campus 1 University Place Stamford, Connecticut 06901 Phone: 1 (203) 251-8400 Follow us on facebook Follow us on instagram Follow us on youtube Follow us on twitter Info For Current Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Alumni Related Links Net ID HuskyCT Student Administration System Google Apps HuskyCT Email/Office365/Outlook Emergency Closing Announcements Other Important Links Events and Conference Services Facilities Request UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Accessibility Policies A-Z Index © 2022 University of Connecticut Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Aid Visiting Campus Admitted Students About Overview of Campus Maps and Directions Campus Administration Safety Faculty Directory Academics Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Programs Internships Academic Resources Student Life Student Resources Housing NY Metro Living Downtown Stamford Student Involvement Info For Current Students Faculty and Staff Veterans Alumni APPLY VISIT GIVE Press enter to search