Information Services » Status Dashboard All systems are operational Other Components Authentication Systems Operational Administrative Systems/Databases Operational Banner Operational Box Operational Bridge Operational Business Intelligence Operational Campus Map Operational Canvas Operational Citrix Apps Operational CORE Reporting Operational Email Operational Hyland OnBase Operational G Suite Operational Kaltura Operational Microsoft Teams Operational MyDegrees Operational MyOregonState Operational Network/Wireless Operational Office 365 Operational OSU Mobile Operational OSU Websites Operational Printing Operational Qualtrics Operational TeamDynamix Operational Telephone and Voicemail Operational VPN Operational Zoom Operational Stickied Incidents 27th May 2022 Banner Saturday, May 28, from 8am to 1pm — Oracle upgrade; interruption to Banner, other administrative services University Information and Technology will be installing patches to its Oracle databases on Saturday, May 28, between 8am and 1pm. Banner and many related OSU systems/services will be unavailable or have limited functionality during this time. Administrative systems such as Banner, Online Services, AWA and Degree Works may be affected and access to these systems will be interrupted during the maintenance window. The list of affected services includes: • Academic Catalog (CAT) • AWA • Banner • Banner Self-Service (Online Services) • Banner Workflow • Benny Hire • Benny Buy • Canvas (Some administrative functions not available) • Clean Address • Curriculum Inventory Management (CIM) • Degree Works (MyDegrees) • EvalS • FormFusion • MyOregonState (some links will be unavailable) • OSU Mobile (some data will be unavailable) • Schedule of Classes (New Scheduler) • TouchNet (will accept payments, however, payments will not be posted until Banner returns to service) • Applications that use API calls to obtain data from Banner will be unable to retrieve data during maintenance. This maintenance was successfully completed. Past Incidents 27th May 2022 Banner Saturday, May 28, from 8am to 1pm — Oracle upgrade; interruption to Banner, other administrative services University Information and Technology will be installing patches to its Oracle databases on Saturday, May 28, between 8am and 1pm. Banner and many related OSU systems/services will be unavailable or have limited functionality during this time. Administrative systems such as Banner, Online Services, AWA and Degree Works may be affected and access to these systems will be interrupted during the maintenance window. The list of affected services includes: • Academic Catalog (CAT) • AWA • Banner • Banner Self-Service (Online Services) • Banner Workflow • Benny Hire • Benny Buy • Canvas (Some administrative functions not available) • Clean Address • Curriculum Inventory Management (CIM) • Degree Works (MyDegrees) • EvalS • FormFusion • MyOregonState (some links will be unavailable) • OSU Mobile (some data will be unavailable) • Schedule of Classes (New Scheduler) • TouchNet (will accept payments, however, payments will not be posted until Banner returns to service) • Applications that use API calls to obtain data from Banner will be unable to retrieve data during maintenance. This maintenance was successfully completed. 25th May 2022 CORE Reporting CORE - Partial Outage for Finance and Pay Data We are currently experiencing an issue with the finance and pay data for the CORE reports. As a result, some finance and pay reports may not run or may return incomplete data. An example of this is PAY1560. We will post updates here as they become available. This has been resolved Banner Some Banner services down We have received reports of a "502 Bad Gateway" error in Banner. Impacted services include: Banner HRIS, Banner Student, and Banner Financial Aid. This issue is currently being investigated. Banner services have been restored. 24th May 2022 Administrative Systems/Databases DocuSign Currently Unavailable We are aware that DocuSign is currently experiencing an outage. This affects a number of processes at Oregon State, including unclassified and classified job changes and reappointments, summer hire processes, student SU approvals, BennyHire processes, late petition of registration, etc. DocuSign is aware of this outage and are working to resolve it. We will post updates here as they become available or you can follow the DocuSign status page for the latest updates: https://status.docusign.com/ DocuSign has addressed the issue and reports that their service is now operating normally. 16th May 2022 Authentication Systems Duo login with hardware token currently unavailable Duo login with a hardware token is currently unavailable. Please use other methods such as the Duo mobile app or a security key. Login with Duo token has been re-enabled as of 9:30am. 10th May 2022 Business Intelligence CORE OnBase/Nolij document viewer service outage Links to finance documents in OnBase from within CORE/GRS reports currently do not work at this time. UIT is investigating. Please contact https://beav.es/datahelp with questions. This issue is resolved. 9th May 2022 OSU Websites OSU Homepage Unavailable We are aware that some users are unable to access the OSU homepage. We are investigating and working to resolve the issue as quickly as possible. Another update once we have more information to share or the issue is resolved. The OSU Homepage is now available and working properly. 7th May 2022 Banner Saturday, May 7, from midnight to 5pm — Banner upgrade; interruption to Banner, other administrative services On Saturday, May 7, we will be performing our regular quarterly upgrades to Banner, beginning at midnight and ending at 5pm. During this timeframe, there may be a break in connectivity to Banner and other administrative systems. If you have any questions or concerns regarding this maintenance, please contact the Service Desk at beav.es/help or by calling 541-737-8787. The list of affected services includes: • Academic Catalog (CAT) • AWA • Banner • Banner Self-Service (Online Services) • Banner Workflow • Benny Hire • Benny Buy • Canvas (Some administrative functions not available) • Clean Address • Curriculum Inventory Management (CIM) • Degree Works (MyDegrees) • EvalS • FormFusion • MyOregonState (some links will be unavailable) • OSU Mobile (some data will be unavailable) • Schedule of Classes (New Scheduler) • TouchNet (will accept payments, however, payments will not be posted until Banner returns to service) • Applications that use API calls to obtain data from Banner will be unable to retrieve data during maintenance. This maintenance is complete. 5th May 2022 Kaltura Issues accessing My Media in Canvas We are aware of an issue with Kaltura that is preventing some users from accessing My Media in Canvas. Kaltura is investigating the issue and we will post an update once more information is available. The affected Kaltura services include Mediaspace, KMC, uploads, playback, New Live Sessions, and analytics. Kaltura has resolved this issue and is operating as usual. 25th April 2022 Issue with Network share drives, slow logins We are aware some users are unable to access CN-Share and CN-Home file storage. This issue may also be affecting users logging into their workstations and experience long loading times. We are investigating the issue and will post another update once we know more or the issue has been resolved. This issue has now been resolved. If you continue to experience any issues, please reach out to the Service Desk at beav.es/help or by calling 541-737-8787. 18th April 2022 Issues accessing Banner Admin We are aware that some users are experiencing issues with accessing Banner Admin pages as of around 10:30 am this morning (Monday, April 18). We are currently investigating the issue and will provide updates as needed. This issue has been resolved. 13th April 2022 Administrative Systems/Databases Oracle Production database issue impacting some services An Oracle Production database issue is impacting some services, including: Core reporting, ETL, and some features in MyOregonState. The issue affecting our Oracle database has been resolved and affected systems are now operating normally. MyOregonState Some Features of MyOregonState Remain Unavailable Some features of MyOregonState remain affected by the earlier Oracle database issues. Teams are working to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. More information will be posted here as it becomes available. This issue has been resolved and all functions within MyOregonState should be operating as usual. Business Intelligence Many data services degraded or unavailable On Wednesday, April 13, 2022, IAR became aware of database & connectivity issues impacting CORE, GRS, Jaspersoft and some Tableau dashboards. Yesterday's data was not picked up last night. We will start refreshing the data as soon as the system is available, and anticipate services slowly becoming fully or partially available by the afternoon. The IT Status page (https://beav.es/status) will be updated as services are restored. If you have questions about this outage, please contact IAR at https://beav.es/datahelp The issue affecting our Oracle database has been resolved and we are refreshing the data. 29th March 2022 OSU Websites OSU Blogs (WordPress) Experiencing Slowness and Intermittent Availability We are aware that the blogs.oregonstate.edu platform (WordPress) is having performance issues and is intermittently unavailable. We are investigating the issue and will share more information once it is available. This issue has been fully resolved and blogs.oregonstate.edu is operating normally. As of 6:45pm, we have stabilized blogs.oregonstate.edu and are continuing to monitor the situation. 28th March 2022 Issue with ONID Home Drives Beginning around 3pm, we have received several reports of issues accessing ONID Home Drives and applications.oregonstate.edu drives, and are performing emergency maintenance today (Monday, March 28), between 5 and 5:30pm. As of about 5:30pm, the issue affecting ONID Home Drive and applications.oregonstate.edu has been resolved and these services are now operating normally. 26th March 2022 3 to 5 AM - OSU Telephone system maintenance On Saturday, February 26, UIT Telecommunications will be performing an upgrade that improves how we connect to OSU’s dial tone provider. This process will cause a rolling outage for outbound phone calls between 3am and 5am. This means that all campus phones — including those at the Corvallis, OSU-Cascades, HMSC and Portland locations — will be unable to make calls to off-campus phone numbers, including calls to 911. However, campus phones will still be able to receive calls from off-campus phones as well as place calls to other campus phones, including Public Safety. In case of an emergency, you can either use your mobile phone to call 911 or contact Public Safety using your campus phone by dialing 541-737-7000 (Corvallis) or 541-322-3110 (OSU Cascades). Contact for more information: Telecom help line (541)-737-4357 opt 1 or telecom.help@oregonstate.edu 24th March 2022 Banner Interruption to Banner and other administrative services The emergency maintenance affecting Banner and other systems has been completed and was successful. Banner and the affected systems should be connecting as usual. 15th March 2022 Issue with Network Drives (CN-Home, CN-Share) Starting around 1:20pm on 3/15/2022 we have received several reports of issues accessing CN-Home, CN-Share and software.oregonstate.edu network shares. We are investigating this issue. As of about 9:30pm last night, the issue affecting CN file storage and software.oregonstate.edu has been resolved and these services are now operating normally. The issue is more intermittent now. Services may be working for some customers, but not for others, or not all the time. We are still investigating. We have determined that this is a network issue with the storage for some network shares. The network team is working on identifying where the issue is. 10th March 2022 Business Intelligence Some Finance and Pay reports may have missing data. On Thursday March 10, 2022 IAR became aware of data load issues impacting some Finance and Pay reports. Currently GRS, Jaspersoft and CORE are affected. If you have questions about this outage, please contact IAR at https://beav.es/datahelp Data has been reloaded and this service is now working as expected. 4th March 2022 Banner Banner Firewall Outage Affecting Many OSU Systems and Services Around 8:45am we became aware that several OSU systems and services are partially or completely unavailable. This is due to an issue with the Banner firewalls. We are working to switch over to our backup firewalls to restore these services as quickly as possible. We will continue to post updates here as we learn more. If you have any questions or concerns regarding this outage, please contact the Service Desk at beav.es/help or by calling 541-737-8787. As of 9:30am, all systems affected by this outage have been restored to service. We have successfully transferred to the backup firewalls and are beginning to bring affected systems back online. 25th February 2022 Qualtrics Qualtrics - Email Distribution Service Impact Qualtrics engineering is actively working to resolve a Spamhaus Domain Listing of qemailserver.com that is causing an elevated number of emails to be marked as spam or being rejected by some email providers. To address this issue, Qualtrics is pursuing the following actions: We are working with email recipient systems and block list providers to resolve these issues. Unfortunately, Qualtrics does not have direct control over these providers and we expect deliverability to improve in the coming days. We are improving our detection mechanisms to prevent low-quality, unsolicited, bulk or “spam” email distributions coming from the Qualtrics platform. We are more aggressively disabling email functionality for customers with very low quality email lists. Customers affected by this will be notified and only re-enabled once we’ve confirmed email best practices are being followed. We are continuing to scale our SMTP fleet to better balance SMTP traffic to our higher reputation SMTP nodes. In addition to the actions being taken by Qualtrics Engineering, some actions may be taken by the customer to help alleviate the email deliverability issues: For enterprise email systems, customers may wish to consider allow-listing the @qemailserver.com email domain. Email recipients may wish to review their Spam inbox and mark the message as “Not Spam” in their system. While bounced emails will not be resent, we recommend scheduling reminder emails once the issue has been resolved. Consider migrating to an External SMTP Relay. Documentation for using an External SMTP Relay can be found on our support page. OSU IT will post updates as they become available. The email distribution issue has been resolved. Qualtrics is fully opperational. 22nd February 2022 Business Intelligence Tableau Server Error - "Unable to Sign In" Tuesday Feb 22, 2022, Decision Support became aware of an issue impacting Tableau Server. Affected users will see an Unable to Sign In error when accessing the OSU Tableau Server. If you experience this error message, you will need to restart your computer, as that should resolve the issue. You may also use an incognito browser, if a restart is too disruptive. We are actively researching the root cause of this issue. Please let us know if you experience additional issues or have questions about this error: https://beav.es/datahelp. 5th February 2022 MyOregonState Some data not loading in MyOregonState We are aware that some users are not seeing some kinds of data (academic, financial, etc.) on their dashboard. We are aware and working to resolve this as quickly as possible. The issues have been resolved and data should be loading correctly. Dashboard RSS Atom