Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Science offers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduates can earn a BA in statistical science, social... Faculty Hiring Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Statistics Graduate Society Recently Published Papers Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News 2022 Graduation Information Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Science degrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search Department of Statistics and Data Science (SDS) Faculty Excellence Matteson, Smith Receive Faculty Excellence Awards Statistics and Data Science's David Matteson and Melissa Smith each received faculty excellence awards from Cornell Bowers CIS. Read More A New Building New Building to Create ‘Unified Complex’ for Bowers CIS Construction is scheduled to begin in early 2023 on a state-of-the-art academic building for the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Read More Commencement 2022 Commencement 2022 Reflect on your Cornell journey and celebrate your success with loved ones, classmates, faculty, and the wider Bowers CIS and Cornell communities. See Photos and Names The Department of Statistics and Data Science’s academic and research programs take advantage of Cornell University's extensive resources, drawing from many colleges and research groups. Specializations in our department are vast and include statistical science, social statistics, and biometry and range from computational statistics and machine learning to statistical methods for astrophysics, genomics, medicine, legal studies, and much more. CSCU Services The Cornell Statistical Consulting Unit (CSCU) is a professional service group that aims to strengthen research on campus by assisting scholars with using statistical methods in their research in the most optimal way. Our services are coordinated to provide statistical expertise to the entire Cornell community through consulting, teaching, and contract services. See our Statistical Services Available at Cornell page under Resources for more information on CSCU and other units that provide statistical research support. David Matteson Wins SUNY Chancellor's Award Matteson, Smith Receive Faculty Excellence Awards Celebrating the Class of 2022: Anna Effenberger Home About Us Contact Us Careers © Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall, 129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Facebook Twitter YouTube If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.