View campus updates and Coronavirus information and resources. × Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links Find People UC Riverside Stem Cell Center College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Search Home Stem Cell Center Stem Cell Core Facility I.E. Stem Cell Consortium News & Events News Events Events Archive Giving Contact UCR Home Quick Links Find People Welcome to the UCR Stem Cell Center Living the Promise. The mission of the UCR Stem Cell Center is to advance the stem cell field by fostering basic and translational research and engaging in education and outreach. Research at the Center focuses on understanding the basic mechanisms that control stem cell function and deciphering how the tremendous potential of stem cells can be used to improve human health. Researchers at the Center have expertise in many different fields including developmental biology, cancer biology, endocrinology, aging, nanotechnology, neuroscience and bioengineering. Learn More Stem Cell Core Facility The mission of the UCR Stem Cell Core is to facilitate the development of basic and translational stem cell and animal cell research by providing services and state-of-the-art equipment to researchers. Learn More IE Stem Cell Consortium The Inland Empire Stem Cell Consortium is comprised of researchers undertaking stem cell research at the University of California, Riverside (UCR), Loma Linda University (LLU), Western University, and California State University at San Bernardino (CSUSB). Approximately 40 laboratories belong to the Consortium. LEARN MORE October 05, 2021 UC Riverside receives $5M CIRM grant to train scientists in stem cell research The University of California, Riverside, has received a grant of $5 million from the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine, the state’s stem cell agency, to train young scientists and physicians in stem cell research. “We would like to increase the... Read More » April 09, 2021 UCR researchers develop a new method that expands the world of small RNAs "A team led by a biomedical scientist at the University of California, Riverside, has developed a new RNA-sequencing method— “Panoramic RNA Display by Overcoming RNA Modification Aborted Sequencing,” or PANDORA-seq — that can help discover numerous modified small RNAs that... Read More » November 16, 2020 California Voters Deliver a Victory for Proposition 14 The Passage of Proposition 14 Underscores Californians’ Commitment to Continue Investments in the Discovery of Groundbreaking Treatments and Cures for Chronic Diseases and Conditions Read More » August 19, 2020 Stem Cell Assistant Project Scientist awarded a School of Medicine Dean’s Postdoc to Faculty Fellowship Congratulations to postdoc, Maneeshi Prasad, PhD, for receiving a SOM Deans Research Fellowship! Dr. Maneeshi Prasad, an Assistant Project Scientist in the Division of Biomedical Sciences in the lab of Dr. Martin Garcia-Castro, has received a School of Medicine Dean’s... Read More » More News University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Stem Cell Center 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 501A Keen Hall tel: (951) 827-4954 email: stemcells@ucr.edu COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links CNAS Home Events/Seminars Research Facilities Contact Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel