Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia Stem Cell Initiative - CSCI News Contact Us Donate Jobs Search About Us Members Core Facilities Research Education Events CSCI Member Spotlight Tapping the Potential of Stem Cells for Human Health At the Columbia Stem Cell Initiative (CSCI) we are building a cutting-edge, premier stem cell program that integrates expertise in regeneration and precision medicine and shapes a novel basic and translational understanding of stem cells in health and disease for biomedical research. Learn More Learn More Who We Are Providing investigators with access to advanced equipment and resources for stem cell research. Meet Our Members Meet Our Members Core Facilities Providing investigators with access to advanced equipment and resources for stem cell research. Go to Our Core Facilities Go to Our Core Facilities Jobs Providing investigators with access to advanced equipment and resources for stem cell research. Browse Job Opportunities Browse Job Opportunities News Plug-and-Play Organ-on-a-Chip Can Be Customized to the Patient Source: Columbia Engineering News April 27, 2022 A team of researchers from reports that they have essentially created a plug-and-play multi-organ chip, which is the size of a microscope slide, that can be customized to the patient. Kelley Yan & Aaron Viny 2 of 15 VP&S Physician-Scientists To Receive Early-Career Funding to Support Research Source: CUIMC newsroom April 14, 2022 Kelley Yan and Aaron Viny among 15 who have been recognized as VP&S Promising Clinician Scientists and awarded grants from the Office of Academic Affairs to support their research. CRISPR/Cas therapeutic strategies for autosomal dominant disorders Source: The Journal of Clinical Investigation May 2, 2022 Here, we detail recent advancements in CRISPR therapeutics to treat a wide range of autosomal dominant disorders and discuss how they are altering the landscape for future therapies. View All News Announcements Spring 2022 Stem Cells, Genome Engineering and Regenerative Medicine Lectures The lectures will include general lectures on stem cell biology followed by student presentations and discussion of the primary literature. Chao Lu One of Two Columbia Scientists To Receive Hirschl Trust Research Awards Chao Lu, PhD has been awarded the prestigious 2022 Hirschl Trust Research Awards by the Irma T. Hirschl Trust Research Scientist Program. Announcing the 2021 CSCI Seed Fund Competition Winners Three projects led by CSCI Full Member faculty have been selected for the 2021 CSCI Seed Fund Program. The CSCI trainee council is excited to present ABCs: Academia – Babies – Challenges – Support We have invited faculty members and post-docs from the greater CSCI community to share with us their personal experiences, challenges, and tips balancing work in academia and having children. Join The CSCI Cell Cyclers Velocity Team! Your Velocity is about making a difference at Columbia’s Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Events Columbia Stem Cell Initiative Work in Progress Thursday, June 2, 2022 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM Venue Hammer Health Sciences Center, 701 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 LL204 View All Events Make a Gift Your generous support helps us make the research breakthroughs that will translate into medical treatments with a global impact. Donate Now Donate Now Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors Research Education Members About Us News Events Jobs Columbia Stem Cell Initiative (CSCI) 650 W. 168th Street William Black Building, Room 1109 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top