Skip to the main content Report an Incident Get Involved About For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser. We Stand Together At Texas A&M University, we stand together against sexual and dating violence, and sexual harassment. Our core values guide us in all we do, and that includes ensuring our campus is safe for everyone. It's up to us to do what Aggies do: Serve. Step In Stand Up is a great reminder that as active bystanders, we can Step In to prevent acts of violence and harassment, and we can Stand Up for survivors. We can protect ourselves and one another with steps like planning ahead, using the buddy system and asking for consent. Throughout our history, Aggies have stepped up to serve, achieving remarkable things. We can continue that tradition of service with safe practices, bystander intervention and survivor support – and we can do it, because we're Aggies. Sign Up to Stand Up Join Aggies everywhere as we Step In and Stand Up against sexual harassment and sexual violence. Show your support and help change the conversation and the culture. Sign the Pledge Get Involved Resources About This Campaign Putting a stop to sexual harassment and sexual violence begins with each one of us taking the collective first step toward change. Together, we step in to prevent these senseless acts and stand up to support the survivors. Together, we will change the perceptions, conversations and communities. Learn More Get Involved Stand with the entire Texas A&M community in creating awareness and action in an effort to prevent sexual harassment and sexual violence on our campus, in our community and throughout our country. See how you can Step In, Stand Up and get more involved. Learn More Texas A&M University View Full Calendar Texas A&M University Galveston View Full Calendar Step In Stand Up © Texas A&M University | Texas A&M at Galveston | Texas A&M at Qatar Site Policies | Contact