Skip to the main content Report an Incident Get Involved About For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser. Home Report TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY Texas A&M University Texas A&M University at Galveston If you or someone you know has been subjected to sexual harassment, sexual violence or any other form of sex-based discrimination under Title IX, you have a variety of ways report such misconduct. Report Directly to a University Official: Students and employees may report directly to the Department of Civil Rights and Equity Investigations at: Any complaint can be reported to the Title IX Coordinator: Jennifer M. Smith Title IX Coordinator Medical Sciences Library 202 Olsen Blvd, Suite 007 College Station, TX 77843 TitleIX.Coordinator@tamu.edu 979-458-8407 Jennifer M. Smith Title IX Coordinator Medical Sciences Library 202 Olsen Blvd, Suite 007 College Station, TX 77843 TitleIX.Coordinator@tamu.edu 979-458-8407 Electronic Reporting Option Individuals may submit a report online through the online report form. Reporters can provide contact information or submit the report anonymously. Reports submitted anonymously or with limited information may limit the ability to follow up on an incident. NOTE: Confidentiality cannot be guaranteed for reports submitted through this site. State law determines confidentiality. Confidential Resources In most cases, mental health providers are not required to report an incident that in any way identifies the employee or student concerned without their consent. However, if an imminent harm situation is present, the counselor must take action to protect whoever is at risk. Please visit the Support Resources page for more information on locating a mental health provider Reporting to Law Enforcement Individuals have the option of notifying law enforcement authorities including university police, local law enforcement, or law enforcement located in the city/location in which the incident occurred. An anonymous "Jane/John Doe" report can be filed with the police while deciding whether to pursue criminal charges. University Police Department 979-845-2345 Bryan Police Department 979-209-5301 College Station Police Department 979-764-3600 Brazos County Sheriff’s Department 979-361-4100 Reporting to a Federal Agency The United States Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) is a federal agency responsible for enforcing Title IX. Information regarding filing a complaint with OCR can be found online. If you or someone you know has been subjected to sexual harassment, sexual violence or any other form of sex-based discrimination under Title IX, you may report such misconduct or file a formal complaint with the Title IX Office or official contacts listed below: A university employee who witnesses or is informed about incidents of sexual discrimination, sexual harassment (including sexual violence), and/or related retaliation is responsible for promptly reporting the incident. Other members of the campus community and the public should also promptly report such incidents. More information about privacy and confidentiality of reports. If the Alleged Offender is a : Student (graduate, undergraduate, or professional) Faculty, Staff, or Unrelated Third Party with no known university affiliation Contact: Dr. Todd Sutherland Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Texas A&M University Galveston Campus Seibel Student Services Center #101G Galveston, TX 77553 sutherlt@tamug.edu 409-740-4598 Contact: Jennifer M. Smith Title IX Coordinator Medical Sciences Library 202 Olsen Blvd, Suite 007 College Station, TX 77843 TitleIX.Coordinator@tamu.edu 979-458-8407 Confidential Resources In most cases, mental health providers are not required to, nor may, report an incident that in any way identifies the employee or student concerned without their consent. However, if an imminent harm situation is present, the counselor must take action to protect whoever is at risk. Please visit the Resources page for more information on locating a mental health provider Reporting to Law Enforcement Individuals have the option of notifying law enforcement authorities including university police, local law enforcement, or law enforcement located in the city/location in which the incident occurred. An anonymous “Jane/John Doe” report can be filed with the police while deciding whether to pursue criminal charges. Texas A&M University at Galveston Police Department 409-740-4545 Galveston Police Department 409-765-3702 Galveston County Sheriff’s Department 409-766-2322 Reporting to a Federal Agency The United States Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) is a federal agency responsible for enforcing Title IX. Information regarding filing a complaint with OCR can be found online. Step In Stand Up © Texas A&M University | Texas A&M at Galveston | Texas A&M at Qatar Site Policies | Contact