Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance Menu About Events Research Blockchain Laboratory Cypher Accelerator Senior Advisors Mentors Digital Asset Incubator Podcasts & Articles Contact The Future of Finance The Stevens Center is the Premier Research, Education, and Thought Leadership Institution in the World for Financial Technology. Finance is a powerful force for good. Accelerating advances in technology are fundamentally transforming financial services and driving existential changes in business models — benefiting all. The Stevens Center is uniquely positioned at the forefront of these changes, preparing world leaders to revolutionize financial services. View Research Collaborate With Us Sarah Hammer & Sameer Gupta — Introducing Cypher, Penn’s New Blockchain Accelerator OUR APPROACH By engaging students, faculty, and industry, we are uniquely positioned to prepare world leaders for the future of finance. At the Stevens Center, students bolster classroom learning with guidance from Wharton faculty and real-world insights from financial institution leaders. Faculty engage in seminal research and projects leveraging cutting-edge datasets to explore questions critical to the future of finance. About us EDUCATE CONNECT COLLABORATE LEAD News & Events On June 30, 2021, Sarah Hammer Served as an Expert Witness in the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Hearing on Cryptocurrency. Ms. Hammer had the opportunity to testify about the importance of clarity and coordination (both domestic and international) in cryptocurrency regulation. She also shared her insights on investor protection and systemic risk. The hearing was broadcast on C-SPAN. Read More Stevens Center Launched It makes Wharton the leading business school in the world with a dedicated research center focused on the fintech industry. Read More Fintech: Foundations & Applications of Financial Technology Specialization launched The online course will introduce you to the fundamental building blocks of financial technologies and real-world applications through case studies of Wharton-led companies in the field. View Course VIEW ALL Stay Connected Join our community and get updates on events and available opportunities. Connect With Us First Name* Last Name* Email* Δ Contact Us Sarah Hammer Managing Director, Stevens Center Email: sarah21@upenn.edu WE ARE LOCATED IN Steinberg Hall-Dietrich Hall 3620 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 The Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance was established with the support and partnership of 1991 undergraduate alumnus Ross Stevens, founder and CEO of Stone Ridge Holdings Group. Ross’ vision and leadership will allow Wharton to continue to innovate at the exciting and ever changing intersection of finance and technology. Additional Links Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance About Events Research Blockchain Laboratory Cypher Accelerator Digital Asset Incubator Podcasts & Articles Contact Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Support Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help