Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance Menu About Events Research Blockchain Laboratory Cypher Accelerator Senior Advisors Mentors Digital Asset Incubator Podcasts & Articles Contact Accelerate Your Blockchain or Crypto Startup Today About Cohort 1 Advisors & Mentors FAQs Podcasts & Articles About Cypher The Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance at Wharton is proud to announce the opening of its Cypher Accelerator. We bring Wharton’s business and finance expertise, global reach, cutting-edge perspective, and operational support to launch the world’s leading blockchain and crypto companies. In doing so, we advance the blockchain ecosystem while supporting groundbreaking research and development in the space. Cypher is a remote, non-dilutive accelerator dedicated to startups building a decentralized future. Outside of the 5-7 hours of weekly programming we provide, founders should be working on their startups full-time. Over the three months of our program, we’ll help you develop your product, nurture key relationships, build your market strategy, showcase your brand, bolster operations, sharpen your value proposition, and prepare for a demo day with leading investors. Additionally, we offer a suite of resources for startups, including funding, mentorship and advising, full-stack blockchain support, and much more. What We Provide ❖ World-Class Advisors & Mentors ❖ Workshops Taught by Industry Experts ❖ Business Development Support ❖ Full-Stack Technical Support ❖ Connections with Legal Advisors ❖ Fundraising Preparation & Demo Day ❖ $5000 in Non-Dilutive Grants ❖ Credits for Storage, Nodes, etc. Cohort 1 Our cohort startups span across a wide range of topics, including AI, DeFi, Security, Digital Celebrity in the Metaverse, InsurTech, Web3 Infrastructure, Proptech, Healthcare, and Gaming. Cowboy Labs SaaS and product partnership company offering tools & services to make blockchain easy & scalable. Ensuro A decentralized capital provider for insurance risk. Metaverse AI Building the open metaverse with AI-powered virtual humans, digital celebrities & web3 applications Portabl Universal financial identity for all. Protego A decentralized trust & safety protocol to assess the risk of any interaction on any blockchain. Roofstock Radically simplifying single family rental investments. TYDEi Solving complex business problems in healthcare through our low-code, smart contract-enabled service platform. VIA Making communities cleaner and safer by bringing AI everywhere. VO₂ Be more than a fan. Carv Building a credential issuing protocol for web3 gaming citizens, enabling credential-driven benefits and interoperability across the gaming metaverse. Cypher Accelerator Team Our team at the Stevens Center will engage in hands-on work to help your startup thrive. SARAH HAMMER Managing Director CHONGWU DU Accelerator Manager SEBASTIAN MELENDEZ Accelerator Manager SHIVA MENTA Accelerator Manager SUDARSHAN SARATHY Accelerator Manager RISHIN SHARMA Accelerator Manager KHUSHI SHELAT Accelerator Manager Cypher Advisors and Mentors Senior Advisors Some of the world’s most prominent names in blockchain, financial technology, and investing are here to guide our accelerator and you. JEFF AMICO Partner, Andreessen Horowitz CHARLES BIRNBAUM Partner, Bessemer Venture Partners STEFAN COHEN Partner, Bain Capital MARK CUBAN Chairman, Cuban Companies TIM DRAPER Chairman, Draper Associates Check out our full list of senior advisors here → Mentors Our team of experienced mentors is here to support you along each step of the acceleration journey. JAMIE FINN Co-Founder and President, Securitize ARPAN GAUTAM Head of Business, Dexterity Capital DAVID GOGEL Head of Growth & Operations, dYdX CHRIS HANLON Head of Finance and Corporate Development, DirectBooks JEFF HASSELMAN Global Startup Lead Crypto, Blockchain, Digital Assets, AWS Check out our full list of mentors here → Corporate Partnerships Our corporate partners are here to support the development of your startup and connect you with key industry players. FAQs Why should I apply to the Cypher Accelerator? The Cypher Accelerator is one of few accelerator programs that offers you access to high-quality accelerator resources while also providing non-dilutive funding. As part of the Wharton School, we are in a unique position to give you access to our extensive network and cutting-edge perspective. What happens if I miss the application deadline? If you miss the application deadline, we can not accept your application for the current cohort, but we urge you to apply to the next cohort. Do I need to have a business plan? No, although it is encouraged because the program is fast paced and the more developed your business is, the more you will gain from the accelerator process. What kind of companies do you select? We want to further the blockchain ecosystem, and in doing so, our only requirement is that your company employs blockchain technology in some way. Do I need to be an alumni of the University of Pennsylvania to apply to the Cypher Accelerator? No, all applicant backgrounds are accepted. I am a current student. Can I apply for the program? Yes, although we will evaluate whether you have time to commit to the accelerator experience. Does the Cypher Accelerator accept companies with a single founder? No. We require that founders must be a part of a team of two or more. Do we need to be a US based company to apply? No. Because our program is virtual, companies from anywhere in the world can apply. Is this program in-person or virtual? Our program is run virtually, although we plan to host some in-person events and activities in various geographic locations. Does it cost money to participate in the Cypher Accelerator? No, our program is free of charge. What does Cypher look for in applicants? While we don’t have strict guidelines for accepting applicants, our main selection criteria is as follows: Founding team’s ability to build and iterate fast Founding team’s ability to work together Potential to support the blockchain and crypto ecosystem Originality of the innovation/idea Viability and scalability Connect with Us First Name* Last Name* Email* Message* Δ Team Accelerator Team Senior Advisors Mentors Partners About About Cypher Cohort 1 Contact Sarah Hammer Managing Director, Stevens Center Email: cypheraccelerator@gmail.com Have a Question? Connect with Us. Tangen Hall, Floor 5 15 S 40th St, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Senior Advisors Mentors Additional Links Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance About Events Research Blockchain Laboratory Cypher Accelerator Digital Asset Incubator Podcasts & Articles Contact Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Support Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help