See Temple’s coronavirus response. Current Students Alumni Industry Partners Skip to main content About STHM Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Search Philadelphia: Your Learning Lab See why Philadelphia is the best city to learn sport, hospitality and tourismDiscover Philadelphia About STHM Center For Industry Engagement Alumni Philadelphia + STHM Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan History Board of Visitors Connections Magazine Maps and Directions About The Center for Industry Engagement Industry Resources and Services Partner With Us Hire An Intern Share Knowledge Networking Opportunities STHM Alumni Alumni Association Share Your Story Make a Gift Connect STHM Internship Experience: NFL Films Learn more about senior Joey Glennon’s exclusive internship experience with NFL Films.Read More Undergraduate Graduate Professional Development Certificates PhD Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Event & Entertainment Management Bachelor of Sport & Recreation Management Bachelor of Tourism & Hospitality Management Minors & Certificates Apply Now Request Info Schedule A Visit Graduate Programs Master of Sport Business Master of Hospitality Management Apply Now Pre-Qualify Request Info Event Leadership Executive Certificate Destination Management Graduate Certificate Global Tourism Graduate Certificate Graduate Certificate in Event Management Service Excellence Graduate Certificate Tourism Analytics Graduate Certificate Certificate in Sport Leadership Why Travelers Choose AirBnB Discover what researchers from STHM say about the home-sharing phenomenon. Read More Faculty & Staff Sport Industry Research Center U.S.-Asia Center for Tourism & Hospitality Research Center for Hospitality Resilience Adjunct Faculty Mobile Payment: The Future of Travel & Tourism Discover what research published by the U.S.-Asia Center for Tourism and Hospitality Research says and how you can unlock the potential.Read More News & Stories Upcoming Events Graduation Main Menu Return About STHM About STHM STHM and Philadelphia History of STHM Partner With STHM Alumni Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan Academics Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Event & Entertainment Management Bachelor of Sport & Recreation Management Bachelor of Tourism & Hospitality Management Minors and Certificates Graduate Graduate Programs Master of Sport Business Executive Master of Sport Business Master of Travel and Tourism Master of Hospitality Management PhD Professional Development Certificates Event Leadership Executive Certificate Destination Management Graduate Certificate Global Tourism Graduate Certificate Graduate Certificate in Event Management Service Excellence Graduate Certificate Tourism Analytics Graduate Certificate Certificate in Sport Leadership Faculty & Research Faculty & Staff Sport Industry Research Center U.S.-Asia Center for Tourism & Hospitality Research Adjunct Faculty News and Events News & Stories Upcoming Events Graduation Current Students Alumni Industry Partners Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management Admission and Application Information Courses and Curriculum Minors and Certificates Transfer Student Resources Tuition and Financial Aid Apply Now Request Information Schedule A Visit Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management Bring the excitement of game day into your every day with a career in sport and recreation management. Discover the places your career can take you when passion meets opportunity. Schedule a Visit Apply Today Home > Undergraduate Programs > Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management Admission and Application Information Courses and Curriculum Minors and Certificates Transfer Student Resources Tuition and Financial Aid Apply Now Request Information Schedule A Visit Transform the Game Day Experience Learn in the City of Sport Fandom -- Philadelphia! Individualized Professional Development & Career Coaching Real-World Sport Industry Internship Opportunities The business of sport is a global multi-billion-dollar-a-year industry flourishing with opportunity. From ticket sales and sponsorships to game-day operations, this exciting industry creates memorable fan experiences every day. Let us help you start a career in the competitive global sport industry. With our Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management, you will gain the skills and experience needed to start a career in the fast-paced sport and recreation management industry. Look at the world of sports in a new way when you experience the business of professional sports teams, college athletics and recreational sports. With experience-focused curriculum and a vast industry network, STHM will give you one-of-a-kind access to the tools and resources you need to succeed. Top 10 Careers in Sport Management What can you do with a degree in sport management? There's no one way to use your sport management degree in the global multi-billion-dollar industry. Professional Sport Operations Collegiate Sport Administration Recreation Management Event & Venue Management Sport Analytics Sales and Promotions Sports Marketing Manager Account Manager/Account Executive Public Relations Fitness Director Check out our alumni success stories: Continue Reading Creating Opportunity for Real-Life Success “While being armed with the knowledge you learn in the classroom is great, nothing’s better than working with a team or media agency. Those requirements forcing you to get out there and get into the working world while you’re still in school—transitions you well for post graduation.” John Suchenski Senior Manager, Programming & Acquisitions, ESPN Alumni '04 “The staff and faculty at STHM granted me the opportunity to be where I am today in my career.” Alexis Sullivan Entertainment Representative, Philadelphia Phillies Alumni '17 “As a student at STHM, I was really fortunate to have a lot of awesome internship opportunities and as a result, I was able to turn them into full-time job opportunities after graduation. The school does a really good job of building relationships in the industry so students have that built in network while they’re here.” Sudha Suryadevara Recreation Superintendent, Upper Merion Parks & Recreation Alumni '05 Alexis Sullivan Alumni '17 Sudha Suryadevara Alumni '05 Customize your degree in sport management TAILOR YOUR BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN SPORT AND RECREATION MANAGEMENT TO FIT YOUR PASSIONS AND GOALS. In the competitive sport industry, you need to take advantage of every opportunity to set yourself apart from the competition. Our Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management program is designed to specialize your skill set and customize your experience to create a career path that matches your dreams. We provide a dynamic combination of industry-focused faculty and hard-to-get internships that offers hands-on experience and networking opportunities as well as the ability to tailor your degree to pursue a number of exciting careers, including professional sports, college athletics, public recreation and park agencies and youth sport agencies. Discover how this curriculum can help you do just that. 3 Ways to Customize Your Degree: 1. Concentrations STHM provides several concentrations allowing you to hone in on specific areas of the industry to help you enter the career of your dreams. Whether you’re looking to create an unforgettable game-day experience or reach the masses with a results-driven marketing campaign, STHM can help turn your goals into a successful, sustainable career. Governance and Policy Sport and Recreation Promotion Event Management 2. Minors STHM lets you customize your education giving you more marketable skills and providing you the opportunity to stand out from the pack during a job interview with a wide range of minors powered by the Fox School of Business. 3. Accelerated 4+1 Program Take the industry by storm with this unique opportunity. High-achieving students have the ability to complete both a bachelor’s and master’s degree in just five years. Learn more about the Bachelor of Sport and Recreation Management Curriculum View Courses Enrollment Information Ready to turn your passion for sports into an amazing career? Let's talk! To learn more about the Bachelor of Science in Sport and Recreation Management, contact STHM’s admission team or click the button below. Whether you have a few questions or would like to schedule a tour, don’t hesitate to reach out to us directly. Undergraduate Enrollment Management Email: askSTHM@temple.edu Schedule a Meeting Request Information Recent News Students Host Temple’s Sport Business Conference This April the Sport and Governance Association held the third Temple Sport Business Conference. Ater a two-year hiatus and the last-minute cancellation of the 2020 conference, SAGA returned triumphantly to host top industry professionals for a packed day of panels, interviews and networking. Doctoral Student Earns National Award for Athlete Branding Research STHM PhD Nataliya Bredikhina has won a highly prestigious student research competition presented by the North American Society for Sport Management (NASSM), a premier professional academic association in the field. View More News Stories Every Guest Experience Begins With You. Your Future Begins With Us. Request Info Apply Now Visit Campus About STHM About the School Philadelphia + STHM Board of Visitors Partnerships Alumni Maps and Directions Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Development Certificates PhD Faculty & Research Our Faculty U.S.-Asia Center Sport Industry Research Center News & Events Latest News Upcoming Events Current Students CSPD CSS Scholarships Graduation Resources 1810 N. 13th Street | Speakman Hall 106 | Philadelphia, PA 19122 | 215.204.8701 | sthm@temple.edu Copyright © 2022 School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management