See Temple’s coronavirus response. Current Students Alumni Industry Partners Skip to main content About STHM Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Search Philadelphia: Your Learning Lab See why Philadelphia is the best city to learn sport, hospitality and tourismDiscover Philadelphia About STHM Center For Industry Engagement Alumni Philadelphia + STHM Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan History Board of Visitors Connections Magazine Maps and Directions About The Center for Industry Engagement Industry Resources and Services Partner With Us Hire An Intern Share Knowledge Networking Opportunities STHM Alumni Alumni Association Share Your Story Make a Gift Connect STHM Internship Experience: NFL Films Learn more about senior Joey Glennon’s exclusive internship experience with NFL Films.Read More Undergraduate Graduate Professional Development Certificates PhD Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Event & Entertainment Management Bachelor of Sport & Recreation Management Bachelor of Tourism & Hospitality Management Minors & Certificates Apply Now Request Info Schedule A Visit Graduate Programs Master of Sport Business Master of Hospitality Management Apply Now Pre-Qualify Request Info Event Leadership Executive Certificate Destination Management Graduate Certificate Global Tourism Graduate Certificate Graduate Certificate in Event Management Service Excellence Graduate Certificate Tourism Analytics Graduate Certificate Certificate in Sport Leadership Why Travelers Choose AirBnB Discover what researchers from STHM say about the home-sharing phenomenon. Read More Faculty & Staff Sport Industry Research Center U.S.-Asia Center for Tourism & Hospitality Research Center for Hospitality Resilience Adjunct Faculty Mobile Payment: The Future of Travel & Tourism Discover what research published by the U.S.-Asia Center for Tourism and Hospitality Research says and how you can unlock the potential.Read More News & Stories Upcoming Events Graduation About STHM About STHM STHM and Philadelphia History of STHM Partner With STHM Alumni Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan Academics Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Event & Entertainment Management Bachelor of Sport & Recreation Management Bachelor of Tourism & Hospitality Management Minors and Certificates Graduate Graduate Programs Master of Sport Business Executive Master of Sport Business Master of Travel and Tourism Master of Hospitality Management PhD Professional Development Certificates Event Leadership Executive Certificate Destination Management Graduate Certificate Global Tourism Graduate Certificate Graduate Certificate in Event Management Service Excellence Graduate Certificate Tourism Analytics Graduate Certificate Certificate in Sport Leadership Faculty & Research Faculty & Staff Sport Industry Research Center U.S.-Asia Center for Tourism & Hospitality Research Adjunct Faculty News and Events News & Stories Upcoming Events Graduation Current Students Alumni Industry Partners Education that Drives Experience At the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management, our experience-driven education goes beyond the classroom into the city of Philadelphia and the world innovating the industry and moving it forward. Industry Partners Partner with STHM through customized educational programs, inventive consulting projects, finding creative new talent and more. Learn More Future Students Discover how an STHM education opens you up to a world of opportunity in growing, exciting industries. Undergraduate Graduate Moving education innovation forward Established in 1998, The School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM) has a distinguished tradition preparing leaders in the sport, recreation, tourism and hospitality industries. Our innovative approach to learning combined with our location in the heart of Philadelphia fosters transformational education experiences. Real-World Impact Connected to Industry Personalized Approach Your Work Experience Starts Here 7 Programs. Infinite Possibilities. A degree from STHM unlocks a world of endless possibility. Enhance the game-day experience with a career in sports management or curate a one-of-a-kind experience in a restaurant or hotel. See where your career can take you. Sport & Recreation Management Sport and recreation management is a multi-billion dollar industry in the United States. Take the next step toward your rewarding future in sport management: Learn More "It goes beyond basketball . . . It's all about the fan experience and being great community ambassadors. Every day, we strive to come up with memorable and unique experiences for our fans." - Larry Meli President of Delaware Blue Coats '94 STHM Grad Take the next step toward your rewarding future in sport management: Learn More Tourism & Hospitality Management Hospitality and tourism management is a trillion dollar industry in the United States. Take the next step toward your rewarding future in sport management: Learn More "As this industry evolves, people are paying for experiences not things. Trying to figure out how we work ourselves into the way people are thinking about travel is how we stay one step ahead of the game." - Giovanna Slaughter Director of Sales and Marketing, Kimpton Tryon Park Hotel '06 STHM Grad Innovate guest experiences in this exciting, creative industry: Learn More Why Study at STHM Experience the STHM Difference. Learn alongside a diverse student body and connect with industry leaders and professionals around the historic city of Philadelphia and the world. 25 Full-time Faculty 980+ Students Representing 20 Countries 5,000+ Alumni Connections Globally Education Beyond the Classroom 16,000+ Hotel Rooms 1,000+ Food Establishments 6 Major Sports Teams 9 College and University Athletics Programs in Philadelphia Recent News Students Host Temple’s Sport Business Conference This April the Sport and Governance Association held the third Temple Sport Business Conference. Ater a two-year hiatus and the last-minute cancellation of the 2020 conference, SAGA returned triumphantly to host top industry professionals for a packed day of panels, interviews and networking. Doctoral Student Earns National Award for Athlete Branding Research STHM PhD Nataliya Bredikhina has won a highly prestigious student research competition presented by the North American Society for Sport Management (NASSM), a premier professional academic association in the field. View More News Stories Every Experience Begins With You. Your Future Begins With Us. Request Information Graduate Undergraduate Apply Now Graduate Undergraduate Schedule a Visit Graduate Undergraduate About STHM About the School Philadelphia + STHM Board of Visitors Partnerships Alumni Maps and Directions Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Development Certificates PhD Faculty & Research Our Faculty U.S.-Asia Center Sport Industry Research Center News & Events Latest News Upcoming Events Current Students CSPD CSS Scholarships Graduation Resources 1810 N. 13th Street | Speakman Hall 106 | Philadelphia, PA 19122 | 215.204.8701 | sthm@temple.edu Copyright © 2022 School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management