Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Stone Center CCSI CIPR About Mission History Alumni People Academics Degree Programs Summer Programs Visiting Scholar Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Faculty Student Resources For Students For Faculty For Educators News & Events News Events Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... THE STONE CENTER The Roger Thayer Stone Center for Latin American Studies A comprehensive program with faculty in almost every region and discipline essential to understanding Latin America The Stone Center administers interdisciplinary B.A., M.A, and Ph.D. programs in which students may put together curricular selected from several departments or professional schools. Many students have found that such a program gives them flexibility and better access to the full resources of the university than can be had within the confines of a single department. The Center hosts a wide range of conferences, symposia, film series, and other activities. It also coordinates a number of the university's many research and study programs in Latin America. Summer in Panama: dispatches from the field with Sheccid Rodriguez Stone Center Spring Awards Ceremony 2022 Tulane Honors 2020 Graduates with Commencement and Crawfest View More News View News Archives Upcoming Events Academic Summer in Brazil Jun 11 The Stone Center Other Summer K-12 Educator Institute in Panama Jun 18 The Stone Center Academic Mayan Language Institute in Guatemala Jun 20 The Stone Center View Stone Center Calendar View All Events Latin American Studies at Tulane Degree Programs The Roger Thayer Stone Center for Latin American Studies provides programming and degree plans to a broad range of educational constituencies. Latin American Resource Center The Latin American Resource Center promotes the study of all subject matter relating to Latin America at the K-12, community, and university levels. Link to Tulane Home Page Stone Center for Latin American Studies 100 Jones Hall Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 Phone: 504-865-5164 Email: rtsclas@tulane.edu Maps & Directions About Programs Educational Resources Grants & Funding Latin American Studies Graduate Student Organization Get Email Updates News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University