Skip to content All Stories Magazine Issues Topics Admission Alumni Success Butler Beyond Campus Experiential Learning Innovation Student-Centered Newsroom Butler Experts Request For Expert Listing Contact Butler.edu Faculty & Staff Current Students Parents Alumni My.Butler Butler.edu Faculty & Staff Current Students Parents Alumni My.Butler Stories News From Butler University Search for: All Stories Magazine Issues Topics Admission Alumni Success Butler Beyond Campus Experiential Learning Innovation Student-Centered Newsroom Butler Experts Request For Expert Listing Contact Innovation Butler University is a Great Investment March 30, 2022 A Butler University degree has a Return on Investment (ROI) of $1.344 million over 40 years, according to a 2022 report from Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the Workforce (CEW). That ranks Butler at No. 260 out of 4,500 colleges nationally, and No. 5 in Indiana. CEW considers a number of factors in determining the value of an institution’s education, including costs, future earnings, and the length of time it would take to invest and earn a specific amount of money over various periods of time. Data was obtained from the U.S. Department of Education’s College Scorecard. The findings are published in CEW’s latest report, “Ranking 4,500 Colleges by ROI (2022).” “While some families may wonder if the cost of attending college is worth the investment, this data supports that doing so is a wise decision,” said Butler University President James Danko. “And it’s gratifying to see that, when it comes to return on investment, Butler University ranks alongside some of the most well respected universities in the nation.” The CEW rankings are consistent with what other surveys have revealed about Butler University. According to Payscale.com’s “College Salary Report,” Butler graduates with a bachelor’s degree and at least 10 years of experience earn a median salary of $109,100, which ranks No. 259 nationally. Butler has been ranked No. 1 for four consecutive years in US News & World Report’s list of Midwest Regional Universities, and has been ranked the No. 1 Most Innovative University for seven consecutive years in the same category. Butler has been listed in The Princeton Review’s annual college guide, The Best 387 Colleges, for four consecutive years. “We have made considerable improvements across our campus and in facilities in recent years, and those investments have helped us attract some of the nation’s top faculty and students,” President Danko said. “Butler University continues to trend positively in reputation and job placement across the nation, and the value of a Butler education is almost certain to increase over time.” Related Stories Butler University Names Julie Straub Senior Executive Director of Division of Professional Studies By: Mark Apple | May 20, 2022 INDIANAPOLIS – Julie Straub has been named inaugural Senior Executive Director of the Division of Professional Studies at Butler University. She comes to Butler from Miami University (Ohio), where she served as Co-Founder and Director of E-campus. Straub started in her new role with Butler on April 25, 2022. Butler’s Division of Professional Studies (DPS) […] Empathy as a Catalyst for a Life By: Cindy Dashnaw | May 13, 2022 A chance hospital visit sets Sarah Monesmith on a path to Butler Meet Current Student Madeline Freeman ’23 Learn more about Madeline’s student experience. Post navigation Previous: Butler University Aims to Help Universities Nationwide Improve Student Well-being Next: A Family Legacy: Dennis Dickos ՚72 Honors Parents Milt ՚44 and Theodora Through $5M Planned Gift Campus Directory Maps & Directions Parking Visit Virtual Tour Current Construction Bookstore Resources Human Resources Consumer Information Sexual Misconduct Resources Report A Bias Incident Strategic Initiatives Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Report An Accessibility Barrier Public Safety AED Locations Dawg Ride Police Escorts University Police Victim Assistance Media & Partners Newsroom Community & Corporate Partners Licensing Butler Blue IV Appearances “Hink” Appearances Student Success Experiential Learning Career And Professional Success Study Abroad Outcomes E-Tools Butler Email Canvas Moodle My.Butler Google Apps IT Help Desk BUTLER UNIVERSITY 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana 46208 • 800-368-6852 Butler University admits students of any race to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at Butler University. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. © 2020 Butler University