Skip to content All Stories Magazine Issues Topics Admission Alumni Success Butler Beyond Campus Experiential Learning Innovation Student-Centered Newsroom Butler Experts Request For Expert Listing Contact Butler.edu Faculty & Staff Current Students Parents Alumni My.Butler Butler.edu Faculty & Staff Current Students Parents Alumni My.Butler Stories News From Butler University Search for: All Stories Magazine Issues Topics Admission Alumni Success Butler Beyond Campus Experiential Learning Innovation Student-Centered Newsroom Butler Experts Request For Expert Listing Contact Empathy as a Catalyst for a Life Butler Pharmacy Graduates Earn Highest Pass Rate on the NAPLEX® Licensure Exam Butler’s Office of the President Earns Green Office Certification Butler University Names Julie Straub Senior Executive Director of Division of Professional Studies Mark AppleMay 20, 2022 INDIANAPOLIS – Julie Straub has been named inaugural Senior Executive Director of the Division of Professional Studies at Butler University. She comes to Butler from Miami University (Ohio), where she served as Co-Founder and Director of E-campus. Straub started in her new role with Butler on April 25, 2022. Butler’s Division of Professional Studies (DPS)… Empathy as a Catalyst for a Life cindy dashnawMay 13, 2022 A chance hospital visit sets Sarah Monesmith on a path to Butler Butler Pharmacy Graduates Earn Highest Pass Rate on the NAPLEX® Licensure Exam Mark AppleMay 12, 2022 If student outcomes ultimately define the quality and rigor of a college’s curriculum, as many people assert, then Butler University’s College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences (COPHS) has a claim to being the best of its kind in the nation. Graduates of Butler University’s prestigious Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) program passed the North American Pharmacy… Meet Current Student Madeline Freeman ’23 1 1 Meredith Sauter ’12May 4, 2022 Learn more about Madeline’s student experience. Butler’s Office of the President Earns Green Office Certification Mark AppleMay 4, 2022 Butler University’s Office of the President has earned Green Office Certification from the University’s Center for Urban Ecology and Sustainability (CUES). The certification was awarded based on the Office’s sustainability efforts. “When it comes to sustainability efforts, the Office of the President is leading by example,” Jamie Valentine, Assistant Director for CUES, said. “If other… Purdue and Butler Innovation Fellows host first project Chloe Starleaf ’14April 27, 2022 The Purdue and Butler Innovation Fellows program—a new collaboration between faculty and staff at the two universities—launched April 12 with the Food Project, an event highlighting food and sustainability projects, research, art, and cooking demonstrations. Authors Dr. Terri Jett and Dr. Ken Foster discussed their books “Food Justice” and “How to Feed the World”. The… Butler Announces Naming of Levinson Family Hall in Honor of $10M Commitment 1 Chloe Starleaf ’14April 25, 2022 Butler University President James Danko announced Saturday, April 23, the permanent naming of the new 44,000-square foot sciences expansion building as Levinson Family Hall in honor of a $10 million commitment from Frank ‘75 and Kristin Levinson to the sciences expansion and renovation project. The gift was announced during an event in Hinkle Fieldhouse to… Butler University Names Craig Caldwell Dean of Lacy School of Business 1 Chloe Starleaf ’14April 21, 2022 Craig Caldwell has been named Dean of Butler University’s Lacy School of Business. He has served in that role on an interim basis since July 1, 2021. In this role, Caldwell will serve as the chief academic and administrative officer for the Lacy School. His primary areas of focus will include: Growth & Program DevelopmentExternal… A Family Legacy: Dennis Dickos ՚72 Honors Parents Milt ՚44 and Theodora Through $5M Planned Gift jennifer gunnelsApril 4, 2022 Milt Dickos ՚44, a native of Peru, Indiana, had never been to Indianapolis when he first stepped foot on Butler’s campus in 1940. As he looked around the unfamiliar buildings, a fellow student drove by and asked, “Are you going to Butler? Then get in the car; let’s register and find a place to stay.”… Butler University is a Great Investment 1 Mark AppleMarch 30, 2022 A Butler University degree has a Return on Investment (ROI) of $1.344 million over 40 years. Butler University Aims to Help Universities Nationwide Improve Student Well-being Sam Varie ’21March 29, 2022 Butler’s Institute for Well-being launches national assessment to address all aspects of well-being. First-Year Student Gianna Bucaro Wins Weidner Altruism Scholarship￼ 1 Mark AppleMarch 28, 2022 Gianna Bucaro, a first-year Butler student from Bloomingdale, Ill., is the recipient of the 2022-2023 John Henry Weidner Endowed Scholarship for Altruism in recognition of her commitment to disability rights, children’s health, and volunteerism. ALL STORIES Campus Directory Maps & Directions Parking Visit Virtual Tour Current Construction Bookstore Resources Human Resources Consumer Information Sexual Misconduct Resources Report A Bias Incident Strategic Initiatives Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Report An Accessibility Barrier Public Safety AED Locations Dawg Ride Police Escorts University Police Victim Assistance Media & Partners Newsroom Community & Corporate Partners Licensing Butler Blue IV Appearances “Hink” Appearances Student Success Experiential Learning Career And Professional Success Study Abroad Outcomes E-Tools Butler Email Canvas Moodle My.Butler Google Apps IT Help Desk BUTLER UNIVERSITY 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana 46208 • 800-368-6852 Butler University admits students of any race to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at Butler University. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. © 2020 Butler University