Open in app Home Notifications Lists Stories Write Published in We Are Marquette Marquette University Follow Apr 12, 2021 · 1 min read Save Notable Alumni: Kareeda Chones-Aguam A conversation with alumna Kareeda Chones-Aguam about being a Notable Alumni and how Marquette shaped her life and career Kareeda Chones-Aguam was just named a 2021 Milwaukee BizTimes Notable Alumni. Chones-Aguam graduated in 1998 from Marquette’s Diederich College of Communication. Today she is the senior vice president of partner strategy and management for the Milwaukee Bucks and Fiserv Forum. Here in a video interview, she talks about what it means to be a Notable Alumni, how Marquette shaped her life and career and how she has forged a path as a woman of color in a male-dominated industry. Milwaukee BizTimes’ Notable Alumni Awards spotlight accomplished professionals in the region who make a difference in their workplace and the greater community, as well as the higher education institutions that attract and develop that talent. Chones-Aguam also received Marquette’s Young Alumna of the Year Award in 2016. -- 1 -- -- 1 More from We Are MarquetteFollow Stories of Marquette University students and alumni Read more from We Are Marquette Recommended from Medium Jack Rabbit Constructions of masculinity and femininity in Law define a concept of identity that privileges… Marquette University in We Are Marquette Dr. Jennica Webster honored with Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion Award Shalu Bajaj Ahuja in Change Becomes You We All Need to be DEI Literate Local Futures in Local Futures — Economics of Happiness The Flower of Transformation — blog Local Futures Marquette University in We Are Marquette Jeff Kranz honored with Excellence in University Service Award Marquette University in We Are Marquette Working well, inclusively Rushabh Shah Rape and Modern India: A story without morals? Damon Korb, M.D. A Shot of Compassion AboutHelpTermsPrivacy Get the Medium app Get started Marquette University 4.2K Followers #WeAreMarquette #BeTheDifference Follow More from Medium Nellie Medow ARE SMART GOALS REALLY SMART? Gekeatonparker Dual-screen display with RGB and STONE Intelligent TFT LCD Module Lokesh Lohani To create good Instagram content, there can be different approaches for different types of IG… Seth Williams in F1 Ocean The Birth of F1 Ocean Help Status Writers Blog Careers Privacy Terms About Knowable