Skip to main content ISU Extension County Offices Iowa State University | Extension and Outreach Extension Store Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Cart My Account Store Home Agriculture & Environment Crops Farm Management Livestock Rural Sociology Environment Pesticide Applicator Training Manuals Field Guides Families & Health Home and Family Food, Nutrition and Health Finances Housing Strengthening Families Program Economic Development Local Government Community Development Retail Planning and Zoning Yard & Garden Gardening Flowers Lawn, Shrubs, Trees Vegetables and Herbs Fruit Master Gardener Plant Diseases 4-H Agricultural Science Civic Engagement and Leadership Communication and Arts Healthy Living Marketing Member Resources STEM Volunteer Resources More Resources New & Revised Outreach MidWest Plan Service Spanish/Español Resources View All Topics Remaining Time: 1:59:59 Remaining Time: Timeout Warning Your shopping cart will expire in Redirecting to the homepage... Extending your session... An error has occurred, redirecting to the homepage... Featured Product Safe Mushroom Foraging This field guide provides information on mushrooms found throughout Iowa. It provides foragers guidance on the time of year each mushroom is available, its key characteristics, habitat and look-alike mushrooms. There is also information on common mushroom myths and best practices for searching for them in the wild. Full-color photographs also help hunters identify mushrooms they come across. Format Price Publication $4.00 Add to Cart PDF $0.00 Download Popular Products WL 6 Mammals of Iowa Field Guide This guide is a comprehensive reference to the basic ecology and identification of Iowa's wild mammals. The 134 page booklet contains full species account for 57 species found in Iowa today, and supplemental material about extirpated or rare species, living alongside mammals and scaled comparisons highlighting the wide variety of shapes and sizes of Iowa's mammals. Species accounts feature photos, range maps that highlight county distributions in the state, and information on the identification, habitats, breeding behavior and diets of each species. Development of the Field Guide to Mammals of Iowa was a collaborative project between Iowa State University Extension and Outreach and the Iowa Department of Natural Resources. Funding for the development of the guide was provided through grants from the Wildlife Diversity Program and the Resource Enhancement and Protection Conservation Education Program of the Iowa DNR. [more] Format Price Publication $4.00 Add to Cart PDF $0.00 Download FDM 1 Financial Decision Making Financial Decision Making improves student's understanding of financial management techniques. The course enables students to better analyze and manage their farming operations. Exercises cover the creation and analysis of financial statements. Quizzes test comprehension of materials provided in the course. Farmers make many decisions about the use of capital and credit. Making good financial decisions is often the difference between a prosperous, growing farm business and one that is constantly wondering how to pay the next bill. The Financial Decision Making course helps students build their capacity to answer the following questions about their farm businesses. How much to invest? Where to obtain capital? What mix of equity and debt to use? What credit rates and terms to negotiate? How much financial risk to take? Course questions can be sent to Patrick Hatting at: fdmcourse@iastate.edu FDM satisfies Iowa Farm Service Agency mandatory borrower education requirements. [more] Format Price Moodle eCourse $150.00 Add to Cart HS 101 Homebuyer Education eCourse: A Place of Your Own Purchasing a home is probably the biggest purchase you'll ever make. It’s an exciting experience and not a simple task. Many home loan programs require completion of a homebuyer course to qualify for a loan. A Place of Your Own is an online course to help homebuyers learn about the process of buying a home. The six lesson topics are: preparing for home ownership determining a budget shopping for a home securing a mortgage closing the loan being a homeowner Lesson activities include videos, worksheets, and quizzes. After completing the lessons, earn your homebuyer's certificate with a score of at least 70% correct on the final test. The course can be completed anytime, anywhere from any computer with Internet access. [more] Format Price Moodle eCourse $45.00 Add to Cart PMR 1009 Corn Growth and Development Corn Growth and Development is an updated and expanded publication and includes whole plant photography, detailed descriptions of vegetative and reproductive development, and dry matter and nutrient accumulation figures. Corn Growth and Development replaces the long-standing publication, How A Corn Plant Develops (SR 0048). Content related questions can be sent to the current Extension Agronomy point of contact Dr. Mark Licht at: lichtma@iastate.edu Large quantity discounts (100 copies+) are available. To inquire, please contact us by email (extstore@iastate.edu) or calling (515)294-5247. All images from this publication can be purchased by visiting our Digital Media section. Requests for permission to repost, reprint or use content of ISU Extension and Outreach publications. [more] Format Price Publication $14.00 Add to Cart ePub (for iPad/iPhone) $5.00 Add to Cart Kindle devices & apps $5.00 Add to Cart PM 1945 Soybean Growth and Development This publication can help soybean producers achieve better yields. It includes photos of soybean vegetative and reproductive stages and updated information about soybean plant growth and management. This publication replaces SR 0053 - How a Soybean Plant Develops. [more] Format Price Publication $8.00 Add to Cart CS 445 Core Manual - Iowa Commercial Pesticide Applicator Manual This certification manual is intended to provide the "core" or basic understanding of safe and responsible pesticide use needed to successfully pass the Iowa Core examination for commercial pesticide applicators. This manual serves as a study guide for the core exam which covers subjects relating to applicable state and federal laws and regulations; pest management; label comprehension; pesticides; safety; the environment; and equipment and application techniques. (Previously known as IC 0445) [more] Format Price Publication $25.00 Add to Cart AEP 1002 Online review course for the Iowa Certified Crop Adviser Examination This course prepares individuals for the Iowa Certified Crop Adviser (CCA) Examination. The course is divided into the four major exam competency areas. Within each competency area are modules that cover the subject matter. In total, there are 26 modules with nearly 8 hours of recorded programming. For individuals preferring text over audio, scripts are provided as an alternative. Each module includes a practice quiz of up to 10 questions randomly selected from a pool of questions for that module. Users may take each quiz up to three times. A practice exam covering information from all the modules is also available. It consists of 100 randomly selected questions. The practice exam may be taken a maximum of three times. Registration for the Iowa CCA examination is not included in the purchase price of this course. For examination information please visit the International Crop Adviser website. [more] Format Price Moodle eCourse $100.00 Add to Cart 4H 1450 STEM-Lit to Go! Iowa STEM-Lit to Go! is an innovative program that supports the development of STEM and literacy skills for K-3 youth. This program utilizes a unique instructional framework that integrates inquiry-based STEM activities and carefully selected children's literature. Through a variety of engaging topics including coding, space, and ice cream. Children explore key STEM concepts such as the engineering design process and how to plan and conduct investigations. Each lesson provides youth with a hands-on STEM experience and multiple opportunities to read, write, speak and listen about that experience. This exciting research-based program is designed to support the Next Generation Science Standards and the Common Core English Language Arts Standards. STEM-Lit to Go! has been successfully implemented in both out-of-school time settings and in K-3 classrooms. This complete curriculum can be purchased in full or as individual lessons. Please review our Introduction and enjoy a complimentary lesson, A Chair for Bear, below. Youth-serving organizations in Iowa are encouraged to contact their local Iowa State University Extension and Outreach county office to explore partnership opportunities in administering this program. Additional information on this program is available on the STEM-Lit to Go! webpage. [more] Format Price Complete Curriculum - All Lessons - PDF $29.95 Add to Cart Introduction - PDF $0.00 Download Lesson: A Chair for Bear - PDF $0.00 Download Lesson: Blast Off - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Code Across Iowa - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Hour at the Fair - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Marvelous Marshmallows - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Munching Mysteries - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Scream for Ice Cream - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Sound All Around - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Super Shapes - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Take a Chance - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Tricky Towers - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart Lesson: Wonders of Nature - PDF $4.95 Add to Cart CROP 3138 Herbicide Resistance and Weed Management Course Plan ahead. Dealing with herbicide resistance can be expensive. The United States Department of Agriculture estimates the cost of dealing with herbicide resistance once it occurs to be $20 to $60 per acre. Developing long-term weed management plans that reduce the chances of resistance developing will minimize the cost of resistance. However, it's a team effort - farmer, retailer, and industry - working together to delay herbicide resistance. This online, interactive and self-paced course contains narrated presentations, lesson activities and resources to provide farmers and agribusiness professionals the tools to develop long-term weed management plans to help delay the development of herbicide resistance. Those who complete the course are eligible for 3.0 integrated pest management Certified Crop Adviser continuing education units. In order to receive CCA credits, the entire course must be completed The materials for this online course were originally developed by Iowa State University and Outreach field agronomists along with weed scientists Bob Hartzler and Mike Owen for a series of face-to-face Weeds Week workshops. Additional course information can be found at: www.aep.iastate.edu/weeds. Course questions can be sent to: weeds@iastate.edu [more] Format Price Moodle eCourse $50.00 Add to Cart PM 2077 Guide to Designing a Small Red Meat Plant This guide offers insights and formulas for planning the layout of a small-scale locker-type red-meat processing plant. Two model designs are presented and were created by an experienced meat plant consultant. The plans are for initial design use and not for construction use. [more] Format Price PDF $10.00 Add to Cart HORT 3070 Introduction to High Tunnels eCourse This self-directed, online course covers all aspects of constructing, owning and operating a high tunnel. Throughout the course, you will learn how to properly select a site location, test your soils, determine what crops to grow in your high tunnel, expected costs and potential returns from your high tunnel and resources to help in the process. Each section of the course includes a worksheet for feedback from the course coordinators specific to your own operation. [more] Format Price Moodle eCourse $25.00 Add to Cart SSES 9 Healthy & Homemade Cookbook - A collection of recipes from Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Containing over 70 recipes from Main Dishes, Appetizers, and Desserts to Soups, Salads, Sides, and even Snacks. This 82-page cookbook will have you preparing healthy meals and smartly spending your dollars too! Makes a great gift as well! [more] Format Price Publication $5.00 Add to Cart HS 92 Financial Literacy Lesson Plans - Grades K-5 This curriculum provides four lessons for each grade level, K-5 to address Iowa's financial literacy content standards. Most lessons use storybooks as the main activity, supplemented by activities to extend learning and to initiate discussions at home. [more] Format Price Lesson plans + user guide $0.00 Download User guide $0.00 Download Kindergarten $0.00 Download 1st Grade $0.00 Download 2nd Grade $0.00 Download 3rd Grade $0.00 Download 4th Grade $0.00 Download 5th Grade $0.00 Download PM 2094 Iowa Meat Processors' Resource Guidebook A Guide to Building, Upgrading or Expanding a Small Meat Processing Facility in Iowa. [more] Format Price PDF $3.25 Add to Cart Back to top My Account Forgot Password? New User? Create An Account Extension Store Copyright © ISU Extension and Outreach Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners ISU Extension Dashboard My Account Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Search Tips PDF Help Ordering Information Terms and Conditions Facebook @ISUExtStore @isuextstore Pinterest