Open in app Home Notifications Lists Stories Write Published in We Are Marquette Marquette University Follow Jul 26, 2019 · 12 min read Save Research reach Creative ideas are helping Marquette researchers achieve at the NIH Grant level Marquette professors are finding success at the National Institutes of Health’s top funding tier — where impact is greatest on the treatment of cancer, stroke and other conditions By Allison Dikanovic, Stephen Filmanowicz and Guy Fiorita In her own words, Dr. Jennifer Evans was “a naive graduate student” in behavioral neuroscience — exploring the role of the brain’s master clock, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, in regulating sleep cycles, metabolism, insulin release and other bodily systems — when she struck gold with one of her ideas. Accounting for 27 percent of the external dollars awarded to Marquette researchers, NIH grants are a significant way for faculty members in health-related fields to advance promising research ideas. At the time, researchers studying the body’s circadian rhythms, and the potential havoc wreaked by disrupting them, were stymied by an inability to get inside a working brain to experiment on the clock. But Evans wondered: Could cellular components of the clock be induced to get profoundly out of sync and then removed from the brain? Could these master clock cells continue to function in a culture dish to help researchers understand how the cells communicate with one another? Could various harvested cell types be activated or impaired to yield insights on their roles in the clock’s workings? Dr. Jennifer Evans Evans sought out internships and a postdoctoral fellowship to give herself the technical knowledge to test these ideas. After promising initial findings, she presented them at conferences to impressed colleagues. By the time she joined Marquette’s College of Health Sciences in 2013, the sky was the limit — if only Evans could obtain the significant sums she’d need to hire graduate and undergraduate assistants, purchase equipment, activate a full research plan and have the financial flexibility to take necessary risks. “In my first one and a half years at Marquette, I must have submitted 20 grant applications,” she recalls. “I applied to every potential funder I could find.” Evans, now an associate professor of biomedical sciences, invested special care in her applications to the National Institutes of Health. Accounting for 27 percent of the external dollars awarded to Marquette researchers, the NIH is the university’s largest single source of research funding, a significant way for faculty members in health-related fields to advance promising research ideas. (The next largest funder, the U.S. Department of Education, accounts for 9 percent.) The numbers are impressive. NIH grants currently fund 35 faculty research projects at Marquette. These range from mentored K01 and R00 awards for post-doctoral fellows and new faculty members to a substantial $2.5 million award through the U01 program, which funds research conducted jointly by university and health care industry partners. Four R21 grants to Marquette fund high-risk exploratory research, while 14 projects across campus receive funding through the R15 program for midsize and smaller research universities. Then there are R01 grants, NIH’s gold standard, reserved for the projects with the strongest science and most significant potential health benefits. Marquette faculty members currently serve as lead investigators on projects funded by 12 such grants, nearly $20 million powering the impressive array of science profiled in these pages, the pursuit of novel solutions in critical areas such as cancer care, stroke recovery and cardiovascular disease treatment. Fortunately for Evans, two of the applications she submitted met with success, and one of those was an NIH R01 grant totaling $1.7 million. “Excitement, relief and a sense of accomplishment and pride in being able to compete at that stage” are emotions Evans recalls feeling when the news was confirmed. And to be sure, there was nothing easy about competing for this grant, which went through two rounds of consideration (and redrafting) before getting to “yes.” “Grant writing, in general, is a very exacting, demanding competitive sport. And NIH R01 grants are the big leagues,” she says. “It’s also a good process for getting the best science. That challenge causes people to think deeper about their science, to think about the best way to conduct the research and how it might translate and impact the world around you. They demand you tell them that, so you think about those things.” Besides putting Marquette on the map as a significant site for circadian rhythm research, the grant has opened an array of doors for Evans, including collaboration with a top scientist, her co-investigator Dr. Murray Blackmore, who is helping her develop new genetic approaches to manipulate master clock cells. With the number of active R01 grants climbing here recently, Marquette is aiming higher. In support of the ambitious goal in Marquette’s strategic plan to rapidly expand research funding, the university has established several initiatives to boost faculty NIH success, including: ● Facilitating grant-writing workshops, panels and institutes that teach best practices and provide mentorship. ● Sponsoring a set of five challenge grants per year to faculty members whose applications achieve high scores from NIH but miss out on approval. The $30,000 internal awards help the faculty members gather more preliminary data and strengthen follow-up requests for funding. ● Creating a summer cohort to help early- and mid-career researchers clarify their research aims and write more compelling applications for various grants inside and outside NIH, not necessarily R01s. ● Adding a grant-writer position to the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. ● Adding a research faculty fellow in the Office of Research and Innovation. Serving as the first research faculty fellow is Dr. Sandra Hunter, professor of exercise science and an accomplished researcher herself, who co-leads an R01-funded project with Dr. Robert Fitts, professor emeritus of biological sciences. When not in the lab or classroom, Hunter works as the fellow, facilitating collaboration among faculty members and providing resources and insight for faculty at different points in their researching careers. Drawing on lessons from her own NIH learning curve, Hunter mentors others on the importance of a well-managed timeline, effective collaborations, strong mentorship and a well-framed written proposal as necessities of a successfully funded project. One of her most important pieces of advice is to get past the mechanics of research methods and small-bore scientific questions and instead to “start with the why” — a clear expression of the larger purpose served in conducting this research. That’s what will excite decision-makers at the NIH and other large funding sources. Numerous professors have now benefited from the university’s challenge grants. “I can’t emphasize enough how important these internal grants are to help push people forward and allow them to apply for bigger grants,” says Dr. Allison Hyngstrom, who used a challenge grant to hone a well-scored proposal to use ischemic conditioning, a treatment incorporating a blood pressure cuff to improve blood flow to muscles during exercise, to help those struggling to walk after experiencing a stroke. “The seed money is really, really important to help you build momentum in a project.” In complete agreement is Dr. Edwin Antony, former assistant professor of biological sciences. The recipient this spring of a $1.2 million R01 award to study proteins involved in DNA repair, he asked Marquette research officials to inform the anonymous donor underwriting the internal challenge grants of the “critical role” these funds played in his recent NIH success. With their real potential to yield human health benefits now or down the line, NIH-funded projects help demonstrate how Marquette’s research aspirations are about more than improving the university’s reputation, says Katherine Durben, executive director of Marquette’s Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. They help advance Marquette’s mission as a Catholic, Jesuit university in pursuit of justice, she says. “Part of social justice is improving the quality of health for all. Clearly the NIH and Congress believe that goal is important as well, which is why researchers need to include the public health relevance of their projects in their grant proposals.” Dr. Taly Gilat-Schmidt Clearer spectral CT images — even in highly challenging cases For more than a decade, Dr. Taly Gilat-Schmidt, associate professor of biomedical engineering, has been driving advances in computerized tomography imaging, developing algorithms to improve the diagnostic value of CT images without increased radiation doses to patients. CT scanners in medical centers around the world, for example, incorporate software she co-developed that smartly selects the most motion-free images of cardiac arteries from the numerous images generated by a single scan. Two NIH grants — a previous exploratory R21 grant and a just-announced R01 grant — have Gilat-Schmidt and partners from the University of Chicago and the Medical College of Wisconsin working on the frontier where “spectral CT” technology makes use of X-ray energy information to better distinguish among materials in the body. Gilat-Schmidt’s lab at Marquette was one of the first to acquire a prototype of a photon-counting detector system, a promising spectral technology. And with her partners on the R21 grant, she developed a key algorithm that “extracts that spectral information from detectors and uses it to make better images,” she reports. With the new $1.4 million R01 grant, Gilat-Schmidt and her team are using that algorithm to solve a medical problem — the glare and distortions that metal objects such as orthopedic rods or screws create in CT images. Even with standard correcting algorithms applied (top left), the artifacts can obscure the exact size and shape of cancerous tumors. Applying the new algorithm to the image in a computer simulation yields a clear image (bottom left) that could allow oncologists to pinpoint and irradiate tumors with less damage to surrounding tissue. “We were shocked at how well our algorithm did. But this is a simulation,” says Gilat-Schmidt, whose challenge now is to achieve similar imaging results in real world conditions and to work with physicians at MCW to demonstrate the technology’s value in treating people with cancer. Dr. Murray Blackmore At a research crossroads, the path also taken Dr. Murray Blackmore arrived at Marquette in 2013 with a research project ready for top-level funding. With support from an NIH R01 grant, the then-assistant professor of biomedical sciences was soon studying a gene that could help damaged spinal nerves grow, with the potential of restoring movement to a body that had lost it. Several years into the project, Blackmore and his team were spurring “robust regenerative” spinal nerve growth using a technique called stem-cell bridging to insert the pro-regenerative gene, KLF6, harvested from a virus, into the DNA of mice with damaged spinal cords. “That was the good news. The bad was that the animals in the study were not seeing any benefits in increased function or mobility,” says Blackmore. Blackmore was at a crossroads, facing a choice between two possible solutions. The first involves improving the function of nerve fibers his team has already grown — possibly through rehabilitation or electrical stimulation. “Or maybe the axon has a targeting problem we need to correct, or it’s connecting to the wrong cell,” says Blackmore. The other path is to aim to grow more and better axons. Although the initial research used one transcription factor to do so, Blackmore says nature is more complicated. “If you want to turn on a bunch of genes in a cell, you need a combination of transcription factors. It’s a matter of finding the right combinations.” With the two research paths diverging before him, Blackmore offered both projects to the NIH and figured it would help him choose. With his expertise in the field and skill at crafting grant applications, Blackmore was elated to have both paths open up to him in the form of twin R01 grants, a $1.6 million R01 award late last year and a $1.9 milllion R01 award this spring. With the latter, Blackmore is researching a variety of ways to stimulate more nerve growth, including better gene delivery methods. “We’re finding new delivery vectors that can deliver a gene throughout the entire brain in one go instead of a specifically targeted region,” he says, “Basically, better genes delivered in a better way.” Dr. Nicholas Reiter Championing RNA, tackling cancer Among the three primary biomolecules of living cells, much attention has been lavished on DNA, with its elegant double-helical structure and role as part of the blueprint of our genome. Proteins are praised as workhorses, turning fuel into cell productivity. RNA, meanwhile, has often been described in humbler terms. “RNA was thought to be this flexible and unstructured molecule,” says Dr. Nicholas Reiter, assistant professor of chemistry. “It was thought to be this intermediary … a means to get to the real machinery of the cells.” Still early in his career, Reiter is among the leading scientists revealing the relationship between RNA’s newly discovered structural diversity and its involvement in myriad cell functions. It’s a role he’s played since his NIH-funded post-doctoral years, when he mapped out the near-atomic-level structure of an essential RNA-centric enzyme, ribonuclease P, that helps process all transfer RNAs, the key communicators of protein synthesis. The result showed that RNA, much like protein machines, has rich structural complexity and helped close the book on Nobel Prize-winning 1980s research that discovered catalytic RNA. Funded by a $1.55 million R01 award, Reiter is using X-ray crystallography to define the mechanism by which a non-coding RNA, TERRA, acts in genome surveillance at the ends of chromosomes. The TERRA RNA is made during times of cell stress and interacts directly with cancer-associated proteins that are overactive in the prostate, brain and other organs — largely in situations where “cancer cells seek to be immortal,” says Reiter. Knowledge of these RNA-protein interactions may help in the development of more selective therapeutics designed to curb cancer cell proliferation. Dr. Jennifer Evans, $1.74 million The disruption of circadian rhythms has been linked to diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, obesity and immunodeficiency. Evans, associate professor of biomedical sciences, is analyzing how suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons interact with each other to control circadian behavior. The insights are used to develop therapies for health risks linked to circadian rhythm disruption. Dr. Robert Fitts and Dr. Sandra Hunter, $2.8 million Do older adults fatigue faster because of inefficiencies in muscle fiber rather than central nervous system fatigue? Hunter, professor of exercise science, and Fitts, professor emeritus of biological sciences, address this question using a novel exercise-training program and fiber-differentiated cellular examination, while developing mobility-extending exercise regimens leveraging muscle fibers least susceptible to fatigue. Dr. Paul Gasser, $2 million Gasser, associate professor of biomedical sciences, and fellow neuroscience faculty members are examining the neurobiological mechanisms that contribute to increases in relapse vulnerability in cocaine addicts during periods of stress. The project focuses on the regulation of dopamine levels in specific brain regions by a transport mechanism that is blocked by glucocorticoid stress hormones. The findings will be used to improve treatment and management of addiction. Dr. James Kincaid, $1 million Kincaid, the chair and professor of chemistry, is using Raman spectroscopy, which provides a structural fingerprint for reaction intermediates that exist for only millionths of a second, to gain molecular-level insight into two enzymes involved in steroid biosynthesis, CYP17 and CYP51. A deeper understanding of their structure and reaction pathways may help to develop drugs for diseases like atherosclerosis and prostate cancer. Dr. John LaDisa, $1.5 million LaDisa, Eng ’00, Grad ’01, ’04, associate professor of biomedical engineering, is studying the connection between coarctation of the aorta, a congenital cardiovascular disease, and hypertension. Using fluid dynamics and associated cell culture analysis, LaDisa’s team characterizes changes to the aorta causing hypertension. Results will yield new treatment criteria. Dr. John Mantsch, $2.6 million The chair and professor of biomedical sciences is studying the neurobiological processes through which stress regulates prefrontal cortex function to promote drug use. Apart from helping to develop treatment methods for addiction, the findings will help explain how stress affects how we control impulses and make decisions. Dr. Brian Schmit, $1.6 million By measuring tendon tap reflexes, voluntary muscle activation, and blood flow below and above the injury, Schmit, Eng’ 88, professor of biomedical engineering, is studying the regulation of cardiovascular systems during muscle activity in people with incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI). The results will help develop new exercise training and therapy treatments for people with SCI. Dr. Robert Wheeler, $1.9 million Wheeler, associate professor of biomedical sciences, is examining with Mantsch how unpleasant experiences negatively affect people with underlying psychiatric disorders. The goal is developing behavioral and pharmacological therapies to help manage these effects. -- -- -- More from We Are MarquetteFollow Stories of Marquette University students and alumni Read more from We Are Marquette Recommended from Medium Katelynn Giordano in Teachers on Fire Magazine 🔥 Ready-Made Curricula Sean Farnum Day 3, January 3 SHEEO Governors Are Providing Leadership in Helping Students Succeed in Postsecondary Education Ash More in The Global Voice Student Loans and Rising Tuition Fees: A Looming Threat We Can’t Ignore C.J. Schmidt in #IntroRelUH – Religious Studies 1301 Frequently Asked Questions about Your Posts and the Exams Janhavi Deshpande How to score 118/120 in TOEFL NTACT: the Collaborative DEVELOPING SOCIAL SKILLS: OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE POST-SCHOOL OUTCOMES READ/DOWNLOAD#] The Art Teacher's Survival Guide f READ/DOWNLOAD#] The Art Teacher’s Survival Guide f AboutHelpTermsPrivacy Get the Medium app Get started Marquette University 4.2K Followers #WeAreMarquette #BeTheDifference Follow More from Medium Yana Voynique in Better Humans How to Fix Your Sleep Toby Moore Switch Your Focus Brad Williams Dispelling the ‘Night Owl’ Myth: How to Get the Rest You Deserve and Stop Wasting Willpower Renz Nicole Torres The Mistake We All Dreamed About Help Status Writers Blog Careers Privacy Terms About Knowable