Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University Strategic Plan From President Stanley | Mission and Values | Strategic Plan | Implementation | Downloads Strategic Plan From President Stanley Mission and Values Strategic Plan Implementation Downloads Empowering Excellence, Advancing Equity and Expanding Impact View Strategic Plan President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., M.D. Michigan State University is an extraordinary institution. As a leading research university among the world’s top 100, we have achieved much. But there is more to accomplish. Watch video Spotlight Neighborhoods Initiative Read more Partnerships for Innovation Read more MSU Extension Read more Green Campus Read more Excellence in Trauma-informed Communication Read more Diversity Research Network Read more See more Spotlight Stories Related plans and Initiatives DEI Plan The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan is a comprehensive assessment and plan that identifies potential synergies, inventories efforts, pinpoints existing gaps and creates a framework for establishing MSU as a national leader in this area. Learn more RVSM Plan The Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Strategic Plan stems from work by leading researchers and experts in the field to develop a plan for survivor services, prevention efforts and climate and culture change initiatives. Learn more Land-Grant Identity Focused inquiry during the strategic planning process is beginning to shape a more complete and inclusive narrative about MSU’s land-grant identity. Learn more View the Strategic Plan Quotes from the Steering Committee Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Libraries Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services (CAPS) Health4U MSU Health Care Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program CARES Act Funding Contact us MSU2030@msu.edu Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University