Skip to main content Strategic Planning Menu Close About Current Plan Past Planning Reporting and Resources News and Updates About Current Plan Past Planning Reporting and Resources News and Updates Strategic Planning Strategic planning ensures that NC State’s land-grant mission never wavers, yet fulfills our vision of a stronger university ready to lead into the future. Play Video Wolfpack 2030: Powering the Extraordinary Our new strategic plan exemplifies NC State’s mission, vision, values and goals, and affects every part of campus and everyone in the university community. Learn More Strategic planning is an active, vital part of how NC State builds a better future for our students, the state of North Carolina, our nation and beyond. Chancellor Randy Woodson The Impact of Strategic Planning Services for Success In the midst of countless changes during the COVID-19 pandemic, NC State’s focus on student success remains steadfast. This semester, the Academic Success Center opens to provide another avenue for the university to fulfill its mission. Read more Creating a Culture of Excellence In 2011, NC State launched the Chancellor’s Faculty Excellence Program, an initiative to create interdisciplinary clusters of faculty focused on addressing the world’s most pressing challenges. Read more Rewarding Faculty Leaders The Provost’s Office oversees the University Faculty Scholars Program, which was established by Chancellor Randy Woodson in 2012. The program recognizes and rewards emerging academic leaders who demonstrate significant achievement. Read more 85% six-year graduation rate NC State’s student success initiatives result in students graduating faster with reduced student debt. $1.4 billion endowment We’re among the top 90 largest higher-education endowments in the country. More than $398 million We secured a record amount for sponsored research awards for fiscal year 2020. About Learn more about strategic planning at the university and how it shapes NC State’s future. Read more Current Plan Take a look at Wolfpack 2030: Powering the Extraordinary and find out where it will take us over the next decade. Read more Past Planning Past successes inform current efforts — learn more about our strategic planning foundation. Read more Reporting and Resources Take stock of our measurable success with the latest metrics and stay engaged with a variety of helpful resources. Read more Stay Informed We value transparency in our communications and want to provide you with comprehensive information on strategic planning at NC State. Learn more Strategic Planning Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 CAMPUS MAP About Contact Us Current Plan Feedback Past Planning Privacy Statement Reporting and Resources © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.