Skip to main content Strategic Planning Menu Close About Current Plan Past Planning Reporting and Resources News and Updates About Current Plan Past Planning Reporting and Resources News and Updates News and Updates strategic Planning updates Strategic Plan Debuts At NC State, strategic planning is part of what we do every day. Read our new strategic plan, Wolfpack 2030: Powering the Extraordinary. Read more Strategic Planning Updates We’re ready to put our plan into action. Take a look at some of our strategic planning updates so far. Read more TOP STORIES Defining Student Success Doneka Scott, the new vice chancellor and dean of the Division of Academic and Student Affairs, brings her vision for student success to NC State. Read more Creating Community for Faculty and Staff More than 9,600 employees call NC State home. Many campus units and entities work together to make creating community possible. Read more SSC Stays the Course Along with many other campus entities, NC State’s Sensory Services Center necessarily pivoted due to the advent of COVID-19 and its impact on the university. Read more Navigating Virtual Higher Education The Office of Faculty Development wanted the 2021 Virtual Teaching and Learning Symposium to focus on “Celebrating Faculty Success and Resilience.” Read more Prioritizing Service Learning This month, Julieta Sherk, associate professor in the Department of Horticultural Science in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, talks about how faculty can integrate service learning into their teaching. Read more Women Making It Work Thousands of women at NC State have experienced the impact of the pandemic on a variety of levels. To honor women at the university living during this historic time, we asked some Wolfpack women to share their experiences of navigating the past year. Read more STRATEGIC PLAN NEWS 2021-2030 Strategic Plan Draft Now Available The final draft of NC State’s 2021-2030 Strategic Plan is now available. Strategic Planning Faculty and Staff Listening Sessions To Be Held In December, the university’s proposed goals, vision and values were shared with the campus community for review. Now, several listening sessions have been scheduled for this semester with various staff, faculty and students. Strategic Planning Update The Strategic Planning Executive Steering Committee has reviewed the content of task force reports and defined overlapping themes to create high-level strategic planning goals that will guide the university over the next 10 years. A high-level review of NC State’s proposed 2021-2030 vision, values and strategic plan goals is ready for review and feedback. We want to hear from you! Do you have strategic planning-related news from your college or unit? Let us know!Submit Your News Questions? Do you want to know more about the strategic planning process or strategic planning in general at NC State? Contact us at strategic-planning@ncsu.edu. Strategic Planning Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 CAMPUS MAP About Contact Us Current Plan Feedback Past Planning Privacy Statement Reporting and Resources © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.