Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Strategic Plan Main navigation Home Strategic Plan Home A Message From President Cabrera A Letter From the Co-Chairs Vision and Values The Georgia Tech Vision Our Values Focus Areas Strategic Focus Areas Amplify Impact Champion Innovation Connect Globally Expand Access Cultivate Well-Being Lead by Example About About the Plan Strategic Initiatives Timeline Open Search Search Search Living Our Values Every Day (L.O.V.E. GT) Breadcrumb Home Our Values Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Share the L.O.V.E. The Living Our Values Every Day (L.O.V.E. GT) campaign advances the values that are central to the Georgia Tech strategic plan, which drives us to increase the impact we have in the world – through ambitious goals and bold actions. To reach our goals, our community's actions must be firmly grounded in our shared values, including behaviors, practices, policies, processes, and rewards that demonstrate our commitment to Georgia Tech: Students are our top priority. We strive for excellence. We thrive on diversity. We celebrate collaboration. We champion innovation. We safeguard freedom of inquiry and expression. We nurture the well-being of our community. We act ethically. We are responsible stewards. The L.OV.E. GT working group, with the help of the campus community, is identifying practices and examples of how we should live our values every day in order to help us focus on our shared mission and achieve the goals envisioned through the Georgia Tech strategic plan. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Our values are foundational in everything we do. “The mission and the values are not just words on paper. They describe who we are and who we aspire to be every day.” — President Ángel Cabrera Introducing the 2020 Georgia Tech Clark Scholars The third cohort of Georgia Tech Clark Scholars arrived on campus this past fall during the middle of the global pandemic. Things were certainly different on campus for these new students, however, they quickly bonded and began their journey at Tech together. Read More Forum Addresses Inclusive Entrepreneurship Leaders in higher education, government, and venture capital gathered at Georgia Tech to look at how Atlanta can ensure and support inclusion in entrepreneurship. Read More Andrés García Receives Distinguished Professor Award The Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award is the highest honor given to a Georgia Tech professor. García is a global pioneer in developing biomaterials systems for translational applications in regenerative medicine. Read More Jackets Moving Forward The past year and a half tested us all in ways we weren’t expecting, and our community rose to meet the challenges by getting tested and following guidelines designed to keep us all safe and healthy. Watch Video Our values are our lodestar. "Our love for Georgia Tech is what will bring us together. Even where we have ideological differences, we have to find common agreement on how we live our values as an organization every day." — Sonia Alvarez-Robinson Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Communicating Our Progress December 2021: Survey Underway to Assess Georgia Tech Culture As a continuation of Georgia Tech’s focus on Living Our Values Every Day (L.O.V.E. GT), the Institute is soliciting feedback from faculty and staff on how well we are demonstrating the behaviors and practices set forth by our stated values. Students will be surveyed in January. For more information, read Survey Underway to Assess Georgia Tech Culture. April 2021: Share the L.O.V.E. Georgia Tech continues to advance our strategic values through a program called L.O.V.E. GT. In the coming weeks, members of the working group will be reaching out to the campus community to talk about incorporating those values into our work. For more information, read Share the L.O.V.E. Across Campus. Campaign Launch: Georgia Tech Brings Values to Everyday Life Last fall, Georgia Tech introduced a 10-year strategic plan, grounded in a new mission statement and nine strategic values. For the new year, Georgia Tech will seek to advance our values with a new campaign called Living Our Values Every Day (L.O.V.E. GT). For more information, read Georgia Tech Brings Values to Everyday Life. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Project Team Working Group Byron Fitch, Strategic Consulting, Lead/Project Manager Michelle Thackray, Strategic Consulting, Lead/Project Manager Samuel Ellis, Undergraduate SGA LaTrese Ferguson, Workplace Learning and Professional Development Quinae Ford, Staff Council Ivy Gardner, Employee Relations Gary LaRue, GTRI Jay McKinney, Graduate SGA Laura Pusateri, Employee Engagement Victor Rogers, Institute Communications Kyla Ross, Office of the Provost Kalie Sclafani, Alumni Association Kara Tucker, Ethics and Compliance Tamara Wilder, Institute Communications Nazia Zakir, Facilities Management Executive Steering Committee Frank Neville, Office of the President Sonia Alvarez-Robinson, Strategic Consulting Pearl Alexander, Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Kelly Fox, Administration and Finance Kim Harrington, Human Resources Renee Kopkowski, Institute Communications Ling-Ling Nie, Office of the General Counsel Key Partners Faculty Executive Board Student Government Staff Council Others to be identified Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Engagement Opportunities May 27 10 a.m. – noon Leading Our Values Every Day: Leading Congruently Part 1 Workshop to engage leaders in an interactive experience to reflect and prepare to live and lead our values every day. Register at tinyurl.com/7kj66nvb. 11 a.m. – 2 p.m. Staff Council: Safety First Georgia Tech staff members are invited to receive free PPE supplies at Harrison Square and Tech Green and hear more about how we can incorporate Institute values every day. May 26 Noon – 2 p.m. Leading Our Values Every Day: Leading Congruently Part 1 Workshop to engage leaders in an interactive experience to reflect and prepare to live and lead our values every day. Register at tinyurl.com/7kj66nvb. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Tracking Our Progress Percentage of employees and students who are aware of the Georgia Tech values. Percentage of leaders who have values-based goals developed for the calendar year. Increased understanding of the contextual meaning of the values (metrics to be determined based on culture/values assessment results). Number of employees who actively engage in interactive discussions and events for the L.O.V.E. GT engagements. Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in)