Site Penn State Home Campus and Community Events Licensing Programs University Public Relations University Marketing About The Team Contact Quick Links The Office of Strategic Communications As Penn State’s central public relations and marketing division, we strategically advance and protect the University’s reputation in ways that drive recognition and support; attract outstanding faculty, staff, and students; and build upon our strong reputation for research and educational excellence. We are public relations specialists, marketing experts, content creators, designers, writers, developers, media liaisons, photographers, social media strategists, and more, each bringing our individual expertise to achieve our shared goals. From developing research-based advertising campaigns to raising our national and global media profile, we communicate the best of Penn State and the difference our community is making in the world. Our Units // We approach everything we do with a clear purpose, a philosophy of integration, and an eye toward measurement. Collaboration across each of our functions—from events to media pitching to social media—is essential to telling our stories in the most engaging ways possible while maximizing our reach across channels. While we approach our work as one cohesive team, our office is organized into four units based on functional roles and areas of expertise. Campus and Community Events Licensing Programs University Public Relations University Marketing Campus and Community Events Campus and Community Events manages University events, including commencement ceremonies and awards ceremonies celebrating the achievements of students, faculty, and staff, as well as partnerships with community organizations. Licensing Programs Licensing Programs promotes and protects the integrity of the University's brand by overseeing the use of all University indicia (including names, trademarks, and symbols) that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. University Public Relations University Public Relations promotes public awareness of Penn State and its value to communities throughout the state, nation, and world. We also manage Penn State social media accounts, promote University research, and work closely with senior leadership on developing communications strategies. University Marketing University Marketing promotes the University's academic and research excellence. We accomplish this through the management of Penn State's brand and visual identity, developing creative advertising campaigns, and collaborating with campus partners on digital strategy. Penn State Office of Strategic Communications QUESTIONS OR FEEDBACK: websupport@psu.edu Privacy Non-discrimination Equal Opportunity Accessibility The Pennsylvania State University © 2022