Skip to main content Search search search search menu menu home home close close Search search Main navigation Home About Pillars Wildcat Journey Grand Challenges Arizona Advantage Arizona Global Institutional Excellence News Resources Resources Background Home Pause Video Play Video Wildcat Journey Preparing students with the skills and mindsets to lead in the 4th Industrial Revolution Grand Challenges Tackling society's biggest challenges by enabling discoveries that will fundamentally shape the future Arizona Advantage Advancing our land grant mission to drive social, cultural, and economic impact Arizona Global Setting the standard for a global university in the digital age Institutional Excellence Living our values and innovative culture to enable a high performing institution About The UArizona Living Strategic Plan is a bold and distinctive plan that has been refined in response to unforeseen challenges and unexpected opportunities. About the Plan News The strategic plan includes initiatives grouped into five distinct pillars that make the University of Arizona unique, all guided by the UArizona core values. See News Resources Reference materials, training materials, forms, templates and more are available for Pillar Owners, Initiative Owners and their teams. Find Resources Please forward questions or comments to strategicplan@arizona.edu. The Strategic Plan is guided by the University of Arizona core values. Purpose, Mission & Values News Image UArizona receives $1.18M for borderlands research and archive project May 25, 2022 The Ford Foundation has awarded UArizona $1.18 million to&nbsp;to create a community-led archive that offers a more comprehensive portrayal of the U.S.-Mexico border. Read more Image Teaching Ethical and Legal Frameworks to Support Healthy Aging May 17, 2022 An Innovations in Healthy Aging graduate program through the College of Law helps students better understand and advocate for older adults. Read more Image UArizona will develop and test balloon-borne payloads at new Mission Integration Lab May 17, 2022 Construction has begun on a tall, hangar-like "high bay" facility, where researchers can build and test hardware for experiments and missions designed to fly at extremely high altitudes sometimes referred to as the "edge of space." Read more Read all news Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Title IX / Non-Discrimination Campus Safety UAlert Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Colleges, Schools, Departments Diversity Environment & Sustainability Global Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Outreach & Extension Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources A-Z Index Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.