/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Science & Technology Studies Major Biology & Society Major Courses Graduate Program People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Graduate Alumni Research Science Studies Reading Group About Us Department Contacts Faculty Office Hours Equity and Justice Nordlander Lecture Series The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Department of Science & Technology Studies The Department of Science & Technology Studies (S&TS) at Cornell is concerned with understanding the larger ethical, social, and political dimensions of science-intensive issues. Science and technology are at the core of many of the most important concerns or topics of our day, from the control of military technology, to the ethics of assisted reproduction, to privacy on the Internet. The thread connecting these diverse issues is a shared understanding of science and technology as inherently social activities that are best studied from an interdisciplinary perspective. S&TS Events See all events The Department is saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, Trevor Pinch. Trevor Pinch, Distinguished Professor of Arts and Sciences in Science and Technology Studies in the College of Arts and Sciences, who helped found multiple areas of study related to science, technology and sound, died Dec. 16 after living with cancer for more than four years. He was 69. Read more here. Department Links of Interests Faculty Courses STS Major Biology & Society Major Graduate Program S&TS News Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence "These faculty members and graduate teaching assistants have made tremendous contributions for the benefit of our students, guiding their educational paths and molding their experiences." Read More 'I feel a sense of community and family as part of the track and field team' Kuunemuebari Donovan Mini is a Science and Technology Studies major. Read More 'I accomplished things that freshman-me would have never guessed' Annalisse Eclipse is an Environment & Sustainability major. Read More 'Cornell was the perfect place for me to study nature' Isabella Eclipse is an Environment & Sustainability major. Read More Victorian medicine shaped modern concepts of race Medical statistics compiled and published by the British military played an important role in introducing “race” as a categorical reality, Suman Seth argues. Read More 'This education is a privilege and can be used for good' Abena Gyasi is a Biology & Society and Psychology major. Read More 'I want to work to create a more just and equal healthcare system' Kim Pham is a biological sciences major. Read More All S&TS News Land Acknowledgement: Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. 303 Morrill Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of Science & Technology Studies 607-255-3810 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top