Protect Texas. Stay Informed » Covid-19 Updates Close University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Contact Team Give MENUMENU History Equitable Access and Support Graduation Rate Improvements Charting a Course for Success Student Programs Presidential Scholars & Texas Excellence University Leadership Network Campus Resources Senior Countdown News & Events History Charting a Course for Success Graduation Rate Improvements Equitable Access and Support Student Programs First-Generation Student Support Graduation Help Desk Fall Reset Presidential Scholars & Texas Excellence Scholarships Senior Countdown University Leadership Network UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars Campus Resources Graduation Help Desk Fall Reset MyUT Scholarships Senior Countdown Student Success Symposium Texas Advising Excellence News & Events Search Student Success Initiatives Ensuring Longhorns have the opportunity to complete a world-class education within four years is an essential part of The University of Texas at Austin’s commitment to serve the people of Texas. From scholarship programs with teams of dedicated student support staff to collaborative efforts with colleagues across campus, Student success initiatives at UT Austin are compromised of a wide range of data-driven, forward-thinking resources focused on enrollment, retention, timely graduation, and everything in between. Boldly championing success for all Longhorns at all stages of their college journey is central to the mission of the university. Graduation Help Desk The Graduation Help Desk consolidates all the tools available to help students stay on track to graduate and offers students assistance enrolling in classes required to fulfill degree requirements. Graduation Help Desk staff work with students, advisors, and faculty to resolve roadblocks to timely graduation. University Leadership Network A nationally recognized incentive-based scholarship program, the University Leadership Network’s comprehensive four-year plan involves leadership training, peer mentoring, and experiential learning opportunities, helping students develop skills consistent with graduating in four years. Texas Advising Excellence Texas Advising Excellence is a resource for academic advising staff across campus, providing professional support, sharing best practices and research, and more. UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars In partnership with The Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars aims to close the gap in college graduation rates across income levels by dramatically expanding ongoing, individualized support services for all Pell-eligible students. Give to Students Support our initiatives that help our students thrive academically and graduate in four years. Give Here Thank you to our donors! Houston Endowment | University Federal Credit Union | And More News Eli Lilly Make Life Better Scholarship Recipients Selected ULN Newsletter | December 2021 ULN Newsletter | August 2021 Making an Impact 2021 Student Success Advocate and Champion Award Winners Contact Us studentsuccess@utexas.edu 512-232-6866 FAC 2.116 (F8000) UT Austin Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information Policies Code of Conduct © The University of Texas at Austin 2022