Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Fall 2021 Important Dates, Deadlines, Billing, Payment and Late Registration Information Students registering on or before July 21, 2021 will have a billing statement posted on their Student Account and charges are due on July 28, 2021. Payment of billed charges must be received by the due date or your schedule is subject to cancellation. Late Registration begins on July 21, 2021. Students who register for the first time this term during the Late Registration period may be subject to a $100 Late Registration fee and will not receive a billing statement prior to the payment due date. However, charges are posted to your student account as you register and are viewable on your account Summary via MyPACK Portal. Find out more information about Late Registration fees. The schedule below will apply to all students registering during the Fall 2021 Late Registration period: Register on or before July 27 – payment is due by midnight on July 28, 2021 Register July 28 through August 5 – payment is due by midnight on August 10, 2021 Students wishing to register on or after August 6, 2021 will be required to pay in advance or have posted Financial Aid, an Authorized Third Party Sponsor, or a current Monthly Payment Plan. Please email studentaccounts@ncsu.edu to have your registration hold removed. You must pay your account balance, have posted financial aid, an approved sponsorship, or be enrolled in an authorized payment plan by the due date associated with your registration period or your schedule is subject to cancellation. Students who have been cancelled for non-payment will be required to pre-pay all charges plus a $100 Late Registration Fee before being allowed to re-register. Note that returning degree students who register during the late registration period are subject to a $100 Late Registration fee. Any student who registers after census (August 27) will be charged a $250.00 late registration fee. Mandatory Health Insurance If you have applied for the insurance waiver, but the credit has not applied to your account, you will need to pay the cost of the insurance. The insurance cost will then be refunded after the credit is received from the Student Blue. Payments To view your current Student Account information and make payment, select the “Student Accounts” tile from the Student Homepage. From the left-hand menu, select “Billing Statements” to view your billing statements. You will see your balance in the “What I Owe” section. Your approved Financial Aid will also be reflected. Select “Make a Payment” to pay with a no-fee draft from your checking or savings account. You may also use your Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express or Diners Club. There is a 2.75% fee for all credit /debit card transactions. Payments are not accepted in the Cashier’s Office at Harris Hall. Please make your payment through the MyPack Portal. 529 Checks Please mail to: NC State University University Cashier’s Office 2005 Harris Hall Campus Box 7213 Raleigh, NC 27695-7213 Please be sure the student’s nine digit ID number is printed on the check and that you allow sufficient time for mailing and processing the payment. Payment must be received by the due date or your schedule is subject to cancellation. Financial Aid Students whose aid award does not appear on the Account Summary page should contact their Financial Aid counselor. Aid appears on the student account under “Estimated Aid” only after it has been accepted in MyPack Portal. Any amounts not covered by the aid award must be paid directly to your Student Account by the due date. Financial Aid will not pay any prior term charges. Do not mail Scholarship checks to the above address. These payments must be sent to: Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Campus Box 7302 Raleigh NC 27695-7302 Monthly Payment Plan The Monthly Payment Plan option is available until August 31, 2021. The semester plan is available only for Fall 2021 charges, you may not include prior terms charges in your total. Prior term and past due charges must be paid directly to your Student Account by the due date. Please note that at the time of enrollment you will be required to pay the enrollment fee and all monthly payments per the schedule below: Enroll: # of Payments Due: Next payment due: June 01 – June 30 1 July 1 July 01 – July 31 2 August 1 August 01 – August 15 3 September 1 The fourth and fifth payments will be due on September 1 and October 1. See go.ncsu.edu/mpp for more information. GI Bill Students If you are VA Benefits-eligible, you can request access to the GI/Vets Monthly Payment Plan by contacting the Cashier’s Office (ncsu_vapymt@ncsu.edu). Sponsored Students If you have an authorized, off campus, Third Party Sponsor (Ex: Voc Rehab, Military, IBM) they must submit authorization prior to the billing due date. Third-party Student Sponsorship Information NOTE: Employee reimbursements are not considered a sponsorship. Payment is due by the deadline Students with on campus sponsorships (ex: Graduate Support Plan, Department) must have their Advisor/Graduate Secretary complete the proper authorization before the billing due date. Departments sponsoring students on GSSP will notify the Cashier’s Office. GSSP pays tuition only so you will need to pay the fees and any other charges posted on your account before the billing due date. Departments paying student charges not included in GSSP must submit a separate payment form. If you have questions or concerns about GSSP or department payments, you must contact your department. ROTC Sponsorships Please contact your ROTC office if the award does not appear on your account. The ROTC office is responsible for notifying the Cashier’s Office. Newly Admitted, International, Degree Students International students who have been recently been admitted to a degree program, are attending NC State for the first time this semester, and registering before August 6, 2021, are exempt from these deadlines. The due date for first semester international students is August 20, 2021. The Office of International Studies will notify the Cashier’s Office of the students eligible for this exception. New international students registering on or after August 6, 2021 will be required to pay in advance or provide proof of sponsorship. Failure to pay your student bill will result in late fees and will prevent further registration. This exception applies only to the first semester you are attending. You will be required to make payment for all future semesters by that term’s posted due date. NDS Students NDS students are not subject to a late registration (enrollment) fee. Students must first pre-pay for their anticipated charges prior to enrollment. After completing the prepayment transaction, please e-mail studentaccounts@ncsu.edu to have your hold released. The e-mail should state how many credit hours and the type of hours (distance education or on campus) they seek to enroll in. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.