Skip to main content Student Affairs Show hide search box Search Search Search Toggle navigation Menu Main navigation Topic Bias Response Career Exploration Dining At Duke Diversity Get Involved Living at Duke Resources Sexual Misconduct Prevention and Response Space Finder Student Wellness Voting Communities Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate & Professional Students International Students New Students Parents & Families Undocumented Students Veterans Department Campus Life Career Center Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity Center for Multicultural Affairs Center for Muslim Life Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Dean of Students Duke Dining DukeReach DuWell Housing & Residence Life International House (IHouse) Home About Us Scams Alert Int'l Undergraduate Students Int'l Graduate and Professional Students Int'l Scholars & Visitors Int'l Spouses and Partners International Orientation International Awards Program IHouse Programs IHouse Services Living Essentials Trainings and Workshops Medical Insurance On and Off-Campus Resources Transportation Student Groups Join an email listserv Volunteer Opportunities Language Tables Visa & Immigration Services Jewish Life at Duke Mary Lou Williams Center for Black Culture Office of the Vice Provost Student Conduct Student Health University Center Activities & Events Women's Center About Us Contact Us Get Help International House (IHouse) Flag of the Week: The Bahamas This week, we are visiting The Bahamas, an archipelago and country on the northwestern edge of the West Indies. Learn more about The Bahamas International Profile: Duygu Doğrucan Duygu Doğrucan is a Fulbright visiting scholar from Turkey. She is teaching Turkish at Duke for the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, and also an active participant in the International House English and Spanish Conversation Clubs. Learn more about Duygu Get the Latest Info for Spring '22 For information surrounding COVID procedures for the fall semester, visit Keep Learning and Duke United. We are here for you. We are here for each other. Keep Learning Duke United Previous 1 2 3 Next ... International House (IHouse) Dear Duke students and scholars, The International House is open for in-person office hours in the summer Mondays through Fridays, from 9 am to 5 pm. We are located at 2 Epworth Dorm Lane on Duke's East Campus. You can also email ihouse@duke.edu if you need any assistance. The International House advisors can assist you with any questions or concerns you may have. If you'd like to speak with one of the advisors over Zoom, you can make an appointment during our office hours using one of the following links: Kevin D'Arco, Ed.D, Senior Associate Dean of International Students: Make an appointment with Kevin Andromeda Connor, Assistant Director: Make an appointment with Meda Ling Jin, Assistant Director: Make an appointment with Ling About us Our Mission is to provide educational programs, services and advocacy to Duke global community on campus as well as outreach to the greater Durham area. We offer extensive cross-cultural information and training to enhance the mission of the university. International House is located at 2 Epworth Dorm Lane on Duke's East Campus. Our office hours are Monday - Friday, 9:00 am - 5:00 pm. You can drop by anytime during these hours, and an advisor will be available to assist you. Secondary Menu Home About Us Scams Alert Int'l Undergraduate Students Int'l Graduate and Professional Students Int'l Scholars & Visitors Int'l Spouses and Partners International Orientation International Awards Program IHouse Programs IHouse Services Living Essentials Trainings and Workshops Medical Insurance On and Off-Campus Resources Transportation Student Groups Join an email listserv Volunteer Opportunities Language Tables Visa & Immigration Services Connect with us: Twitter Facebook Blog Contact Us Donate DukeReach Bias response Job openings Duke in Durham Sexual misconduct prevention & intervention Facebook Twitter Flickr Instagram YouTube Blogs ©2022 Duke Student Affairs. All Rights Reserved.