Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Receive your Financial Aid Financial Aid information and records for current and incoming students can be found in MyPack Portal by selecting the Student Homepage and then the Financial Aid tile. Follow these steps to receive your financial aid: Step 1: Check MyPack Portal to review financial aid offer notifications. Entering freshmen and new transfer students typically receive notifications of initial financial aid offers by email and U.S. Mail in early April. All subsequent offers notices are emailed. All continuing, Veterinary and Graduate student financial aid offer notices are emailed, with the initial notification typically arriving by late June. Initial offers notification dates are dependent upon completion of the verification process. If selected, offers will not be made until this process is complete. Step 2: Visit MyPack Portal and verify that the financial aid offer information is correct. Be sure to read the materials accompanying your financial aid offer for conditions and responsibilities, the policy on satisfactory academic progress, and the financial aid update form. Verify that all offer assumptions are correct. Changes to enrollment status, housing plans, residency status, etc., may result in changes to the financial aid offer. If any of the assumptions are incorrect, submit the financial aid update form. To view your financial aid offer information in your portal: MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Financial Aid > Select Aid Year > Financial Aid Offer > Summary Log into MyPack Portal using your Unity ID and Password Open your Student Homepage Select the ‘Financial Aid’ tile Select the aid year you would like to view (This can be changed at any time within the Financial Aid tile by selecting the ‘Change’ button next to the aid year display in the top left corner of the screens) Open the ‘Financial Aid Offer’ folder from the left-hand navigation Select ‘Summary’ On the Financial Aid Offer Summary screen, you can view your Financial Aid Offer (as a PDF) along with a comprehensive list of all types of aid you have been offered, the type of resources (Grant, Loan, Scholarship, etc.), the offer status (Accepted, Declined, etc.), the Net Offer amount and the amount disbursed. Clicking on one of the financial aid rows will allow you to see aid and disbursement details. If you are unfamiliar with the financial aid terms in the notification, please visit the Glossary of Terms for Financial Aid Offers. Step 3: Notify the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid of the receipt of additional assistance via the Financial Aid Update Form. Report other financial assistance, such as sponsorship, Vocational Rehabilitation, tuition reimbursement, housing benefits for Resident Advisors and Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) benefits, etc. Report outside scholarships via MyPack. Step 4: Accept/Decline offers on MyPack Portal. Offered aid must be accepted or declined. Log in to MyPack Portal to view aid and take appropriate action. Unaccepted aid will not disburse or be reflected on your bill. To accept or decline aid: MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Financial Aid tile > Select Aid Year > Financial Aid Offer > Accept/Decline Log into MyPack Portal using your Unity ID and Password Open your Student Homepage Select the ‘Financial Aid’ tile Select the aid year you would like to view (This can be changed at any time within the Financial Aid tile by selecting the ‘Change’ button next to the aid year display in the top left corner of the screens) Open the ‘Financial Aid Offer’ folder from the left-hand navigation Select ‘Accept/Decline’ For desktop users, select the pencil icon to take action on your offers Select the ‘Actions’ button After you have made your decision, you MUST click ‘Submit’ After submission, you may only make changes to your offer decision by contacting the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Step 5: Complete the Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Entrance Counseling for any Federal loans you choose to borrow. First time borrowers of Federal Direct loans must complete an MPN and Entrance Counseling online at studentloans.gov. Step 6: Send scholarship checks to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. All outside scholarship checks should be made payable to NC State University and mailed directly to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid for proper credit toward your university charges. All scholarship checks will be equally divided between the fall and spring semesters unless specifically indicated as a single semester disbursement. To ensure proper administration of your scholarship, communicate the Important Information for Student and Scholarship Donor to your scholarship donor. Step 7: Review eBILL (Fall: July / Spring: November) and confirm aid is noted. An electronic billing statement (eBILL) will be emailed several weeks before the beginning of each semester. Estimated accepted aid will be reflected on the bill and any remaining balance must be paid by the stated due date. Step 8: Aid will be applied toward university charges typically during the first week of classes. Financial aid that is funded or administered by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (except Federal Work Study) is disbursed directly to the student account. Initial disbursements are made by the first week of classes. (Within 10 days of the first day of class, students receiving financial aid may charge textbooks purchased at the campus bookstore.) Subsequent or delayed disbursements are made once per week. Financial aid must be used first to pay any outstanding tuition and fees, room rent and meal plan charges and textbook charges, if applicable, for each semester. Note: A student may cancel a disbursed loan within 14 days of disbursement. Contact OSFA to cancel a previously disbursed loan. Step 9: Sign Up for Direct Deposit on MyPack Portal. If disbursed aid exceeds billed charges, a refund of excess financial aid may be due to the student or parent. Excess funds will be sent out at the start of the semester or as soon as possible after the semester has begun. To receive refunds as quickly as possible, enroll in Direct Deposit from MyPack Portal. A refund check will be mailed to the student address on record for individuals with no Direct Deposit information on file. To enroll in Direct Deposit: MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Student Accounts tile > View Direct Deposit Log into MyPack Portal Select your Student Homepage Select the ‘Student Accounts’ tile From the left-hand menu, select ‘View Direct Deposit’ Select the ‘Enroll in Direct Deposit’ button and follow the steps provided Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.