Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Enrollment Wizard Plan your classes and build your schedule each semester using the Enrollment Wizard tool in MyPack Portal. Are you enrolling in your first semester at NC State? View the New Student MyPack Portal tutorial video for a walkthrough introduction of MyPack Portal and how to enroll in classes. (Note that some features shown are only available for degree-seeking Undergraduate students). Watch Now What does the Enrollment Wizard do? Regardless of your degree, program, year or career, you will register for classes using MyPack Portal. Enrollment Wizard Overview Registering is made easy with the Enrollment Wizard! To access the Enrollment Wizard: Log into MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Planning & Enrollment tile > Enrollment Wizard Log into MyPack Portal with your Unity ID and password Select your Student Homepage Select the ‘Planning & Enrollment’ tile From the left-hand navigation menu, select ‘Enrollment Wizard’ The main features of the Enrollment Wizard include: My Schedule: View your enrolled and waitlisted class schedule. Shopping Cart: View classes you have added to your Shopping Cart and add them to your schedule with one easy click. My Events: Add your extracurricular activities and work schedule to your calendar for easy semester planning. Add to Cart: Search for classes using one of three customized search options. My Calendar: View all of your classes and extracurricular activities in one convenient calendar. Keep track of your busy schedule Add your classes, extracurricular activities and work hours to your calendar in the Enrollment Wizard. How to Add a Class Adding Classes Use the Enrollment Wizard’s “Add to Cart” feature to temporarily store classes in your Shopping Cart before adding them to your class schedule. You can add classes to your Shopping Cart prior to when you can begin enrolling. Adding a class to your Shopping Cart does not automatically enroll you in the class. Once you are able to begin enrolling, you can move classes from your Shopping Cart onto your schedule if there are seats available. Want to know if a class is available? Look for the following class status symbols: Open This icon will appear if there are open seats in a class. (Learn more about holds, prerequisites and restrictions.) Waitlist This icon will appear if the class is currently full but there are seats available on the waitlist. Closed This icon will appear if there are no open seats in the class. Waitlisted in a class? Waitlists are dropped on the 5th day of class each semester. Be sure to plan accordingly if you cannot be enrolled from the Waitlist. How to Drop and Swap a Class Dropping Classes Using the Enrollment Wizard, open your My Schedule section, then select the class you wish to drop and click “Drop.” Once you have confirmed the change, the class will be removed from your schedule. Swapping Classes Swapping gives you the option to change your schedule without having to drop and add classes. You can either swap one section of a class for another or swap to a different class entirely. To swap a class, click the “Swap” icon next to the class you wish to swap from. Then select the class you wish to swap into from the drop-down menu; make sure that the class you want to swap into has been added to your Shopping Cart. Swap to Waitlist Is your preferred class or section not available? The “Swap to Waitlist” feature may be the tool you need. When you swap for a Waitlisted class, you keep your seat in your enrolled class until a seat becomes available. When a seat becomes available, you will be enrolled from the Waitlist. Important Reminders and Policies Adding and dropping classes may affect your total enrolled credit hours, as well as other factors such as your tuition, billing, financial aid/scholarship eligibility, student program eligibility and progress toward degree. The following policies have detailed information that may be useful to you. Add/Drop Policy Course Load Regulation Need help registering for classes? If you are still having trouble with enrollment, contact us Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.