Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home VOICE Team Expands On-Call Services With RAINN Apr 13, 2022 | Atlanta, GA VOICE, Georgia Tech’s sexual violence prevention and victim-survivor support program, has been available 24/7 for several years. They are now expanding their services by partnering with RAINN, a national sexual assault hotline service with trained staff that will provide additional service to the Georgia Tech community. This expansion centralizes the support service to a single phone number (404.894.9000) instead of calling one number during the day and the Georgia Tech Police Department (GTPD) after hours. “Victims and survivors of sexual violence come from a diverse range of backgrounds, experiences, and identities. In order to effectively support them, we have to offer an array of options for them to reach out for assistance and support at Georgia Tech. This partnership with RAINN helps us expand beyond GTPD and other existing avenues for seeking help,” said Luoluo Hong, vice president for Student Engagement and Well-Being, who is herself a campus rape survivor. RAINN has a national reputation for its 24/7/365 hotline that is used by peer institutions as a university-branded service. RAINN volunteers responding to calls will identify themselves as representatives of the VOICE hotline. They receive extensive training in the areas of sexual violence, trauma, and crisis intervention. They also receive training about Georgia Tech and Atlanta-specific resources. If students need to access additional services such as transportation to a rape crisis center or police department, assistance with a time-sensitive academic accommodation, or resolution of safety concerns, RAINN will convey those needs to the VOICE Advocate. As part of Georgia Tech Health Initiatives, VOICE is a confidential resource, independent from law enforcement or the Title IX Office. During the summer of 2020, VOICE moved to enhance its system so that all students would feel safer and more comfortable accessing VOICE services. VOICE will continue to provide the same services to students who experience any form of sexual violence, including sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner violence, or stalking. Classmates, friends, family members, and others who support survivors can also reach out for services and information on how to help. VOICE commemorates Sexual Assault Awarness Month (SAAM) in April with Teal Ribbon Day today, April 14. All Yellow Jackets are invited to pick up a teal ribbon on Tech Green and wear it on April 14 in honor of all sexual violence victims and survivors. For more information about Georgia Tech VOICE : https://voice.gatech.edu. To connect with a VOICE Advocate any time of day or night, call 404.894.9000. For More Information Contact Sara Warner Sara.warner@gatech.edu Related Links VOICE Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login