Division Departments Student Resources About the Division Staff Give Now Get Help Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Division of Student Affairs Texas A&M University Menu Division of Student Affairs Texas A&M University Header Right Give Now Search website... Students Resources Student Conduct Office Diversity & Inclusion Involvement & Engagement Leadership & Service Wellbeing & Safety Division Departments About the Division Office of the Vice President Strategic Plan Organizational Charts Committees Awards Staff News Events Event Photos Calendar GET HELP PRIVACY AND SECURITY POLICY The Department of Information Technology in the Division of Student Affairs respects your privacy. We are providing this privacy and security policy to ensure that we make every effort to respect your privacy and to inform you of what information we collect, how we use it, how we protect it, when we can release it, and how you are entitled to access it. INFORMATION COLLECTION, USE, AND RELEASE When you visit our website to read or download information, we do not collect personal information about you. In particular, we do not use “cookies” to collect or store personal information. However, we do collect and store technical information about your visit in server logs. We use information from server logs to evaluate accessibility or gauge the popularity of various features on our websites. We also use that information for general reporting and management functions. Specifically, we use log analysis tools to generate statistics, determine technical design specifications, and identify system performance issues. Occasionally, we acquire, record, and analyze portions of the data that you enter, store, or transmit through our websites or email you send us. We release this information – only when legally required – to help law enforcement investigations, legal proceedings, or internal investigations of Texas A&M University rule and regulation violations. These groups would use the information to track the electronic interactions back to the source computer(s) or account(s). Except for education records governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), all information collected from our website, including server logs, and information collected from web forms, or email you send to us, may be subject to the Texas Public Information Act. This means that while we do not actively share information, in some cases we may be compelled by law to release this information. COOKIES A cookie file contains unique information that a website can use to store such things as passwords, or pages you have visited, or the date you last looked at a specific page. Cookies can also identify your server session at a particular website. We do not use cookies to collect or store personal information. SERVER LOGS We store the following information in our server logs: User/client hostname – The hostname or IP address of the user/client requesting access HTTP header, “user-agent” – The user-agent information includes the type of browser, its version, and the operating system on which it is running HTTP header, “referrer” – The referrer specifies the page from which the client accessed the current page System date – The date and time of the user/client request Full request – The exact request the user/client made Status – The status code the server returned to the user/client Content length – The content length, in bytes, of the document sent to the user/client Method – The request method used Universal Resource Identifier (URI) – The location of a resource on the server including web pages, images, and other files Query string of the URI – Anything after the question mark in a URI Protocol – The transport protocol and version used INFORMATION SECURITY We employ extensive security measures consistent with the Texas Administrative Code (TAC) “Information Security Standards” and Texas A&M University Rules and Standard Administrative Procedures to protect against unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, or destruction of the information under our control, as well as the loss, misuse, or alteration of our websites and/or associated electronic information resources. The information resources that support our websites undergo an annual information security risk assessment that assesses the security posture of information systems and measures compliance with information security standards. INFORMATION ACCESS The Texas Public Information Act, with a few exceptions, gives you the right to be informed about the information our website collects about you. It also gives you the right to request a copy of that information, and to have the university correct any of that information. You may request to receive and review any of this information, or request corrections to it, by contacting the TAMU Public Information Officer or the TAMU Office of Open Records, 1181 TAMU, College Station, Texas, 77843-1181, at 979-862-7777. QUESTIONS If you have any questions about this privacy and security policy, the practices of our website, or your use of our website, please send an email to the webmaster or by postal mail to: Student Affairs Department of Information Technology ATTN: Webmaster 1256 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1256 Site Footer Texas A&M University Division of Student Affairs JOHN J. KOLDUS BUILDING Suite 117 | 1256 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1256 Sign Up to Receive Division Update Phone: 979.845.4728 Fax: 979.845.3320 vpsa@tamu.edu Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy Copyright 2022 • Division of Student Affairs | Texas A&M University • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT Scroll Up