Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth E.E. Just Program E.E. Just Program Contact Us EE.Just.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Overview About E.E. Just People EEJP in the News Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview Dartmouth Adventures in STEM Fellowships & Internships Undergraduate Fellowship Summer Internship Marine Biological Laboratory Internship Program Events Back to Top Nav Graduate Faculty News Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Dartmouth Adventures in STEM Dartmouth Adventures in STEM is a week-long, summer pre-orientation program that unlocks the imagination of students by taking them to the frontiers of science. (Photo credit: Lars Blackmore) Pioneering Neurosurgeon visits the E.E. Just Program Dr. Odette Harris ’91 (Prof. of Neurosurgery and Director of Brain Injury, Stanford University), speaks with students in the E.E. Just Program, Health Professions Program and Geisel Medical School. Dr. Harris is the first African-American female tenured professor of neurosurgery in the United States. (Photo credit: Lars Blackmore) Our Fellows E.E. Just Undergraduate Fellows are selected from among a talented group of applicants to receive two years of funding and mentoring to support their research under the direction of a Dartmouth faculty member. Learn more about the program, our fellows, their research projects, and their mentors. (All photos by permission of subject) NASA @ E.E. Just Spring Banquet Vanessa Wyche, Deputy Director of the Johnson Space Center, speaks with (from left to right) Amara Gordon ‘19, Princilla Minkah ‘21 and Jolene Bernagene ‘19 before delivering her keynote address at the E.E. Just Spring Banquet. (Photo credit: Lars Blackmore) PreviousNext Internships & Fellowships We offer our scholars part-time and full-time research opportunities. learn more About E.E. Just Learn more about this pioneering African-American biologist, academic and science writer. Program Events Our scholars have many opportunities to meet experts, present their research and engage with faculty.learn more Main menu Dartmouth College E. E. Just Program About Overview About E.E. Just People EEJP in the News Undergraduate Overview Dartmouth Adventures in STEM Fellowships & Internships Undergraduate Fellowship Summer Internship Marine Biological Laboratory Internship Program Events Graduate Faculty News Ribbon Footer People Director Craig Sutton Craig.J.Sutton@Dartmouth.EDU Program Coordinator Kath Stanton Catherine.Stanton@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1627 Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address E.E. Just Program (HB 6201) Wilder Laboratory, Rm. 113 Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Map Phone: (603) 646-1627 HB: 6201 Email: EE.Just.Program@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback