Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Main content start Content Warning The following section contains content surrounding the history and current presence of homophobia, transphobia, biphobia, and other anti-LGBTQ+ rhetoric and prejudice. This content may be sensitive to people who identify as LGBTQ+. Page Contents Please use the following links to access relevant content. Definitions What is happening? Why is this happening? What can I do? Definitions Homophobia: hatred and aversion towards gay people, or people perceived as being gay. This can sometimes manifest in hateful humor and comments, rigid adherence to and policing of gender roles and expression, and social exclusionary processes. Homophobia also manifests in targeted physical, emotional, interpersonal, legal, and institutional violence. Transphobia: hatred and aversion towards transgender (trans) people and/or any other gender expansive people regardless of identity. This can sometimes manifest in the subtle and/or overt denial of the gender identities of individuals, intrusive questions, comments and microaggressions, and fetishization of trans folx. Transphobia pervades all spaces: LGB+ spaces, the healthcare system, prisons, academic institutions, etc. Transphobia also manifests in the targeted physical and interpersonal violence, sexual violence, and murder of trans people. Biphobia: hatred and aversion towards bisexual people as well as other folx who hold attraction to more than one gender. This can sometimes manifest in denying the existence of bisexuality, the endorsement of bisexual stereotypes, and the fetishization of bisexual people. Due to experiencing homophobia, transphobia, biphobia, and other forms of hatred and oppression, queer people are exposed to greater mental health and physical health disparities than the general population. Keep reading for more specifics on these disparities. What is happening? Currently, folx who are part of the LGBTQ+ community face increased physical and mental health disparities due to discrimination, both structural and interpersonal. Queer folx as a community are exposed to additional harms that increase suicidality, depression and anxiety, substance use, homelessness, violence, and more. These harms exist within a range, from family rejection to hate crimes to legislative discrimination. Certain groups with intersectional identities experience increased harm and discrimination. For example, Black trans and non-binary folx are more likely to be incarcerated, homeless, assaulted, and murdered. These issues do not solely exist outside of the Stanford bubble. Queer, trans, and non-binary students at Stanford face social, mental health, physical, and financial barriers in navigating prejudice from peers, faculty, staff, and family members. Navigating housing systems, administrative forms, athletic teams, mental and physical health systems can be extremely taxing for those who are not represented structurally and socially. Transgender and gender-nonconforming students are more likely to be targets of sexual violence on campus. Queer, trans, and non-binary faculty and staff also are exposed to prejudice and/or discrimination and may not disclose their identities, thus affecting their mental and emotional health and consequently work. Despite positive movement in terms of social awareness of LGBTQ+ issues, political and social systems continue to exclude, neglect, and harm those in the queer community. Why is this happening? We’wha, a Zuni lhemana: John K. Hillers, Image Courtesy of: Smithsonian Institute. Source In order to explain why this is currently happening, it’s important to retrace our steps and look at queerness through history. Despite current and widespread prejudice, queerness and gender diversity has existed and persisted across time and culture. From the highly respected gender diverse individuals in some Native American tribes to rituals of same-sex relationships in ancient Grecian cities and African tribes to the gender transformations and same-sex relationships of ancient Hindu gods, history has shown the diversity of love, attraction, and gender across cultures. Saints Maurice and Theofredus, about 1460–80, Frate Nebridio. The J. Paul Getty Museum, Ms. 91, recto. Source Multiple factors contributed to the oppression and erasure of these cultures. The rise of patriarchy and particular monotheistic institutions that condemned same-sex relationships and gender role fluidity was followed by early psychology’s pathologizing of same-sex attraction and science’s embrace of natural selection. With these belief systems being enforced throughout the world by European/white imperialism and colonialism, much of the world’s queer traditions, peoples, and cultures were eradicated and erased from both existence and historical narratives by white colonization. Though U.S. culture has continued to evolve, our ideas of gender, sex, and attraction still stay rooted in these prejudicial and oppressive forces. While aspects of queer liberation in the U.S. has gained momentum over the past century thanks in large part to the civil rights movement and queer activists of color, we continue to find ourselves in a battle between queer freedom and oppression. While same-sex marriage has been legalized, protections for trans and non-binary individuals continue to be stripped away. While queer communities continue to reconnect and reclaim queer history and ancestry, U.S. mainstream culture and government continues to erase this existence in classrooms, history books, media coverage, and social structures (sometimes called straightwashing). The lives and experiences of queer folx, especially trans people of color, continue to be targeted by systems still impacted by religious prejudice, imperialist erasure, and social stigma. The sister of Layleen Polanco, a transgender woman who died in Rikers Island jail last year, speaks to a crowd gathered outside the Brooklyn Museum for a rally and march for Black transgender lives in New York on Sunday, June 14. 2020. Sekiya Dorsett. Source What Can I Do? It is imperative that these systems are changed, and even dismantled, in order to protect the lives and experiences of queer, trans, and gender non-conforming members of our U.S. communities. We can stop the discrimination and murders of LGBTQ+ individuals, protect those who do not fit into archaic binary conceptualizations of gender and attraction, and move towards a culture of care that celebrates diversity of connection and expression and the intersectionality of race, sex, class, and gender identities. In order to get there, we must work individually, interpersonally, socially, systemically, and legally. Honor Intersectionality Being in solidarity with a community against oppression requires both an intersectional lens and ongoing praxis. We know from the main anti-hate landing page that oppressions intersect. To fight one type of oppression would be incomplete without continuing to learn about and fight the other interlocking oppressions that target and magnify the harm experienced by individuals and communities. For example, to fight for queer rights would also include fighting for racial justice since those who are most impacted in the queer community by oppressive systems are queer and trans folx of color. Second, to fight against these systems takes continued learning and continued self-care; social justice work necessitates humility, ongoing education, and self-preservation. Taking care of ourselves ensures that we can continually and sustainably strive for liberation. Educate yourself PHOTO: INSTAGRAM/@MUSEUMMAMMY First and foremost, continue to educate yourself on aspects of identity around gender, sex, and attraction. Start with this Queer 101 video to learn about current conceptualizations of identity in the U.S. Follow queer educators and activists of all different disciplines and backgrounds in your social and traditional media. Learn about queerness through time and culture. Learn about the stories of queer people of multiple racial and spiritual communities. Diversify your media and entertainment so it includes a wide range of representations of love, sex, attraction, gender, race, ability, class, etc. Continue to learn, fight your own internalized prejudice, and be humble in your process. Show solidarity Second, commit yourself to solidarity with all parts of the queer community. The queer community is expansive, permeating all cultures, nations, religions, and societies, and exists on a spectrum. Solidarity with the queer community entails being an active upstander when hearing prejudicial speech or witnessing discrimination towards any part of the queer community, not just those who are in our racial/ethnic, socioeconomic, etc. circles. It means having conversations with others so that queer folx don’t always have to be the ones to shoulder that burden. It means modeling appropriate and inclusive language and practices in your community, work, family, and faith. Reallocate, center, and elevate Third, help to reallocate attention, resources, and power. While being an ally is important, elevating and centering the voices and experiences of LGBTQ+ folx is key to shifting systems. Donate time, money, and energy to organizations and movements focusing on queer issues and communities. Make sure that the organizations and businesses you support with your money have diverse queer representation, initiatives, leadership and mentorship, inclusive language, etc. Fight for inclusive changes in the structures you’re a part of, like making bathrooms where you work accessible for all genders, changing language on forms and materials to be gender inclusive, advocating for initiatives highlighting queer issues and experiences, and seeing more clearly how heteronormativity and the gender binary system show up in your personal and professional spheres to exclude and invisibilize LGBTQ+ folx. Share news and entertainment centering queer folx of all backgrounds. Amplify the voices of queer folx, encouraging privileged folks to decenter their experiences and step back in conversation. Create spaces of visibility where folx can gather in community, protected from outside harm. Vote Finally, vote to change the legislative structures that harm the queer community. From the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell to the passing of same-sex marriage, key legislative victories have shown that every single vote makes a difference. Listen to the policy suggestions from intersectional queer organizations and civil rights groups and vote accordingly. Vote in leaders who also listen to these policy suggestions. Put pressure on current leaders and systems by communicating via town halls, email and mail, op-eds, and through social media. 24 LGBTQ+ Organizations You Can Support Right Now Contribute to these non-profit groups and organizations to help combat racial, gender, and sexuality-based injustice and violence. Learn More Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top