Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Main content start What’s Happening Now Loneliness and social isolation have been top of mind for many of us during the pandemic. Our very basic human need for connection with family, loved ones, and community members can feel at odds with physical distancing, avoiding gatherings, and stay-at-home orders. But a growing body of literature suggests that loneliness has long been pervasive, both here in the United States and globally, even before the pandemic. Vivek Murthy, 19th and 21st Surgeon General of the United States, documents a pandemic of loneliness in his most recent book Together: The Healing Power of Human Connection in a Sometimes Lonely World. Murthy details three types of loneliness: intimate, relational, and collective loneliness, asserting that the cure must be tailored to each type. While loneliness at its core is an adaptive human emotion that leads us to seek connection and form communities in its extremes, it decreases our quality of life and insidiously can lead to even more loneliness. The good news is that with awareness about what loneliness is and what causes it we can find creative ways to reconnect and build resilience. The first step is the recognition that human connection is as critical to our well-being as food and water. This graphic was created to help visualize the interplay of isolation and connectedness. Each area includes some illustrative statements to help get a sense of where you most resonate. What might you consider as you look at this model? There are healthy and unhealthy experiences of both connectedness and isolation. There is not a singular way of experiencing any of these; in fact, you may experience different paths at different points of the day. Your identities, cultural background, and personal history will influence how you think about connectedness and isolation. You’ll be in the best position to meet your own needs if you consider both your cultural/family lens and your individual boundaries. Loneliness & Connection The experience of loneliness can vary between people, but a common thread is the absence of sufficient connection with others and self. Learn More What We Can Do About Loneliness Explore what you can do personally when experiencing feelings of loneliness. Learn More Resources Where you can go for support. Connect at Stanford RAs & CAs These upper division students and graduate students who live in each residence want to listen and help. They are available whenever you have a problem and can provide valuable insights from their own Stanford experiences. The Bridge Peer Counseling Center Stanford’s student run peer counseling center offers anonymous and confidential 24/7 counseling to members of the greater Stanford community. Peers are available to listen, explore feelings, help sort out issues and uncertainties, or just to talk. Well-Being Coaching Well-Being Coaches are experts in the change process and serve as skilled partners to help you make shifts in beliefs and behaviors to improve your overall well-being, or simply offer support when you’re struggling. CAPS CAPS clinicians provide outreach and support in the form of short-term therapy, medical evaluation, or assistance with connecting students to community partners, providers or resources. CAPS also provides 24/7 crisis support, referral assistance, and workshops. Community Centers Seven community and cultural centers are available on campus and grounded in values of justice, equity, and belonging to empower you to be a bold collaborator and innovative leader with the most vulnerable in mind. Weiland Health Initiative Weiland Health Initiative seeks to promote mental health and wellness across the spectrum of gender identities and sexual orientations through education, training, and clinical services at Stanford and beyond. Office for Religious and Spiritual Life (ORSL) This office seeks to guide, nurture, and enhance spiritual and religious life by fostering space where all feel welcome, included, and represented. Spiritual counseling, including one-on-one support, is available. Office of Recreation & Wellness Stay physically active by participating in a variety of recreation and wellness classes both at Stanford facilities and online. Office of Student Engagement This office houses and manages all the student organizations on campus: there are over 600. Joining an organization helps form a sense of community and belonging while building leadership skills for both new members to presidents and everything in between. Read 1. Together: The Healing Power of Connection in a Sometimes Lonely World (Book) 2. The History of Loneliness The New Yorker (10 minutes) 3. 4 Ways to Soften Loneliness The Calm App (2 minutes) 4. How to Create Meaningful Connection with Almost Anyone Medium (8 minutes) Listen 1. Vivek Murthy and Brene Brown Unlocking Us (50 minutes) 2. Is there Really a Loneliness Epidemic? Freakonomics (36 minutes) 3. Meditations on Loneliness NPR’s Ted Radio Hour (48 minutes) 4. No Coincidence, No Story This American Life (Six 10 minute segments) Watch 1. “Unlonely” Film Festival The Foundation for Art & Healing (35 films under 10 minutes each) 2. “How Compassion for Others Can Combat Loneliness” (5 minutes) 3. “Do You Ever Feel Lonely?" Nick Cho, TikTok’s Korean Dad (40 seconds) 4. Three Components of Connectedness Let There Be Health (2 minutes) Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top