Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Mental Health Resources at Stanford Main content start We know that you will experience new and unexpected challenges during your time at Stanford. Below, you can find a list of mental health resources to help you navigate these times. Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Get Immediate Help Now For life threatening emergencies, call 911 (or 9-911 from an on-campus phone) for immediate help or go to the nearest hospital emergency room. Immediate Mental Health Crisis Assistance For immediate mental health crisis assistance call Counseling and Psychological Services at 650.723.3785 any time, including evenings and weekends. A clinician will be available to speak with you, assess your situation and offer support and/or recommendations for follow-up. Resources to help a student in distress There are many ways for friends, family, faculty and staff to help a student you may be concerned about. Below are some campus websites with resources to consult with you and assist students who may be in distress. Please request a grief processing group tailored to your group’s needs by providing more information here. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Grieving at Stanford Office for Religious and Spiritual Life Resources for Our Communities Red Folder (for faculty, staff and student leaders) Well-Being at Stanford Office of Substance Use Programs Education & Resources Office of Accessible Education Academic Advising Protected Identity Harm Reporting Office of the Ombuds allcove The Jed Foundation Undergraduate Residential Staff Resident Directors (RDs), Resident Fellows (RFs), and Resident Assistants (RAs). Trained professionals and student staff who can advise you about personal issues and assist with emergencies. Email Access Resource Graduate Residential Staff Graduate Deans, Community Associates (CAs). Staff and fellow Stanford graduate students who provide information, advice, assistance and, if needed, referrals, for academic and personal issues. Tel: For 24/7 urgent support, call 650.723.7288 Page ID #25085 Email Access Resource Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Support center for all aspects of personal and professional development and life at Stanford for postdoc trainees. We support postdocs in all aspects of their training as they develop their independent careers. Tel: 650.725.5075 Access Resource Bridge Peer Counselors Offers peer counseling by trained students. We offer anonymous 24/7 counseling to members of the greater Stanford community. Staffed by trained undergraduate and graduate Stanford students, we are here to listen and support. Tel: 650.723.3392 Access Resource Well-Being Coaches Your partner in helping you make shifts in beliefs and behaviors to improve your overall well-being, or simply offer support when you're struggling. Well-Being at Stanford Coaches are experts in the change process and serve as skilled partners to help you make shifts in beliefs and behaviors to improve your overall well-being, or simply offer support when you’re struggling. Email Access Resource Weiland Health Initiative (CR) Promotes mental health and wellness across the spectrum of gender identities and sexual orientations through education, training and clinical services. Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about our current projects: Tel: 650.723.2005 Email Access Resource Confidential Support Team (CR) Offers support to Stanford students impacted by sexual assault and relationship violence, including domestic abuse, intimate partner abuse, stalking, and sexual or gender-based harassment and discrimination. The CST is staffed by licensed psychologists and a licensed clinical social worker. Tel: 650.736.6933 or for 24/7 urgent support, call 650.725.9955 Access Resource Counseling and Psychological Services (CR) Offers individual consults, skills workshops, process groups, seminars, psychiatry services, community referral resources, crisis intervention, and 24/7 support. Students, regardless of where they live, should reach out to CAPS to help find the support they need. Tel: 650.723.3785 or for 24/7 urgent support, call 650.723.3785 Access Resource Emergency Services & Crisis Hotlines 911 Emergency Services: Call 911 (or 9-911 from a university phone) Crisis Text Line: Text HOME to 741741 National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1.800.799.SAFE (7233) National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1.800.273.TALK (8255) Santa Clara County Suicide & Crisis Hotline: 1.855.278.4204 The Trevor Project: 1.866.488.7386 CAPS: Seeking Mental Health Support at Stanford CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services) is a confidential mental health resource for Stanford students. It offers free short-term counseling and psychological services as well as workshops, group counseling sessions, referrals, and resources for long-term help. Learn More Red Folder Guidance for faculty and staff supporting student well-being in a virtual campus environment. Learn More New WPO Therapy Option for Students In an effort to increase mental health resources for Stanford students this year, CAPS is offering an additional therapy option for students via a new, one-year pilot program called WPO. Through this program, students can receive up to 5 free virtual therapy sessions (or in-person sessions if wanted and available) with a therapist, paid for by CAPS. WPO clinicians can also provide single-session therapy right at the time of your call. To access this new therapy service, call: 1.866.212.6113 (enrolled Stanford students currently located in the U.S.) +1 984.239.2309 (enrolled Stanford students currently located outside of the U.S.) Downloadable Poster & Wallet Card Access downloadable files by tapping on graphic. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top