Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Our Most Important Work Main content start In fall 2017, Susie Brubaker-Cole succeeded Greg Boardman as vice provost for Student Affairs. Under Susie’s leadership, Student Affairs began the process of building upon Greg's successful “Future of Student Affairs” groundwork to develop priorities for the next three to five years. Called “Our Most Important Work,” this effort was designed to be highly interactive and action-based. Our Process and Statement of Work In developing the “Our Most Important Work” priorities, we heard from other Stanford community and educational leaders, including then Harry J. Elam, Jr., senior vice provost for education, Jane Shaw, then dean for religious life, Patricia Gumport, then vice provost for graduate education, and others. We also analyzed data from recent student surveys and demographic studies; worked with Stanford's Office of Institutional Research & Decision Support to understand that research; and reviewed recent student presentations on the most important issues facing the student community. We then intensively discussed and culled the ideas that surfaced. As we engaged in this process, we realized that our priority focus was on six key areas, which align with the mission statement we had developed in the “Future of Student Affairs.” Our Most Important Work Priorities In our next phases, we looked to people across the division to take collective responsibility for including these priorities in their work. Our belief is that there will be core practices, defined by evidence of success at Stanford and nationally, that we will all need to engage in to improve and advance student learning and the student experience at Stanford. Through alignment of practices across the division, we can create collective impact and a whole that is greater than the sum of the parts. Community and Belonging Our Goal: Foster experiences, relationships and environments to ensure that every student feels a firm and abiding sense of belonging and contributes to the good of our community. Our Challenge: Surveys suggest that many students feel a lack of belonging within the Stanford community. Undergraduates’ satisfaction with the climate for racial and ethnic minorities on campus has steadily declined over the last several years. Equity and Inclusion Our Goal: Design experiences and systems to ensure that students have equitable access to opportunity. Engage students, faculty and staff in critical thinking and practice around identity, diversity and inclusiveness. Our Challenge: Students, particularly those from historically underserved populations and graduate students, indicate to us that they often do not experience equitable access to opportunities and that they encounter systems and attitudes that isolate, exclude and marginalize. House in Order Our Goal: Ensure that each department in Student Affairs embodies excellence in its core functions. Our Challenge: Given the pace of Student Affairs’ dedicated student-focused work, it can be difficult to focus on core administrative functions, such as policies, protocols, budgets, management practices and organizational design. Integrative Learning Our Goal: Enhance opportunities for students to engage in purposeful learning that is mutually enhancing with the classroom. Our Challenge: There is unrealized potential to connect the realms of learning and development across domains of Stanford’s educational landscape. Integrated learning currently occurs too often through chance rather than through intention and careful design. Mental Health and Well-Being Our Goal: Develop and strengthen the foundational conditions that support students to be engaged, powerful learners. Our Challenge: Many undergraduates enter Stanford with low or vulnerable mental health and well-being. This worsens at Stanford and a sense of feeling overwhelmed is particularly pronounced for our first-generation college students. Supporting Academics Our Goal: Provide systems, services, and guidance that support student success and ease the academic journey from application to graduation and beyond. Our Challenge: Today students must navigate through decentralized and disconnected applications, technologies, and services to explore, plan, enroll in and engage with their classes, programs, and experiential learning opportunities. This creates stress, inequity, and barriers to success. Download a copy of the OMIW priorities Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top