Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Mental Health Resources Campus Resources Georgia Tech Police Department Emergency: Call 911 | 404-894-2500 Vice President for Student Life & Dean of Students Office 404-894-2565 | studentlife.gatech.edu The Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students provides a number of services to assist students with medical and personal emergencies. In the event of an after-hours emergency, individuals should contact the Georgia Tech Police Department at (404) 894-2500 and request that the “Dean on Call” be contacted. There is an emergency “Dean on Call” at all times to assist students in need. After-Hours Assistance Line & Dean on Call 404-894-2500 In the event of an after-hours emergency, individuals should contact the Georgia Tech Police Department at (404) 894-2500 and request that the “Dean on Call” be contacted. There is an emergency “Dean on Call” at all times to assist students in need. Center for Assessment, Referral and Education (CARE) 404-894-3498 | care.gatech.edu Georgia Tech now has a single point of entry through which students will access mental health resources and services on campus and in the community. Located on the first floor of the Smithgall Student Services (Flag) Building, CARE is the primary resource for mental health support at Georgia Tech. Students seeking assistance from the Counseling Center or Stamps Psychiatry need to visit CARE first for a primary assessment and referral to on and off campus mental health and well-being resources. Counseling Center 404-894-2575 | counseling.gatech.edu The Counseling Center offers a full range of counseling and psychological services to help facilitate lifelong personal development, promote mental health, and prevent or reduce stress. Services include: individual, group or couples counseling, workshops, emergency & crisis services, testing & assessment, referral services, Collegiate Recovery Program, and the Peer Coaching Program. Stamps Psychiatry Center 404-894-1420 | health.gatech.edu/services/psych Psychiatry provides general psychiatric services to undergraduate and graduate students and their spouses. This includes thorough psychiatric evaluations and medication management for depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, substance abuse, and other mental health issues. These services are provided by board-certified psychiatrists and care coordinators who collaborate with the Georgia Tech Counseling Center to ensure that students receive comprehensive care. Thrive@GT studentlife.gatech.edu/content/thrivegt Wellness portal of mental health and well-being resources provided in partnership through the University System of Georgia's Mental Health Initiative. Students will find articles and resources that compliment the programs and services offered at Georgia Tech and provide additional resources for their mental health and well-being journey. Collegiate Recovery Program 404-894-2575 | counseling.gatech.edu The Georgia Tech Collegiate Recovery Program provides support and a safe environment to help students achieve growth and success in their recovery and academic journey. LGBTQIA Resource Center 404-385-4780 | lgtbqia.gatech.edu The Center coordinates a range of programs and events throughout the year aimed at educating faculty, students, and staff about LGBTQIA issues, providing safe spaces for LGBTQIA students to build community and explore their identities, and facilitating conversations about LGBTQIA diversity, equity, and inclusion. VOICE 404-894-4462 | 24/7 Info Line: 404-894-9000 | voice.gatech.edu VOICE provides support to victim-survivors of sexual violence and those supporting survivors as well as educates the campus community about healthy relationships and sexual violence. Women’s Resource Center 404-385-0230 | womenscenter.gatech.edu Founded in 1998, the Women's Resource Center serves the needs and interests of female students at Georgia Tech, as well as promotes understanding among the Institute's diverse community. It offers a wide range of programming on women's issues and interests, helping female students expand their networks, develop leadership skills, and come togheter for social and service events. Veterans Resource Center 404-894-4953 | veterans.gatech.edu The Veterans Resource Center at Georgia Tech is dedicated to serving students who are veterans, military, reservist, guard members, and dependents by providing comprehensive support services that enhance and complement the academic experience. Community Resources Georgia Crisis and Access Line* 1-800-715-4225 | mygcal.com The crisis line is staffed with professional social workers and counselors 24 hours per day, every day, to assist those with urgent and emergency needs. Trevor Project* 1-866-488-7386 | thetrevorproject.org Trained counselors are available to support anyone in need 24/7. National Suicide Prevention Lifeline* 1-800-273-8255 | suicidepreventionlifeline.org A national network of local crisis centers that provides free and confidential emotional support to people in suicidal crisis or emotional distress 24/7. Georgia State Psychology Clinic* 404-413-2500 | psychologyclinic.gsu.edu The clinic offers high quality and affordable psychological services to adults, children, adolescents, families and couples from the greater Atlanta area. Additional Training Opportunities QPR Training QPR stands for Question, Persuade, and Refer—the 3 simple steps anyone can learn to help prevent suicide. The most widely taught gatekeeper training in the world, QPR is designed to help any and every one learn how to recognize the warning signs of suicide, offer hope, and help save lives. Participants will learn how to intervene with an individual at-risk, persuade them to get help, and guide them to the appropriate resources. Learn More Safe Space Training Safe Space is Georgia Tech’s LGBTQIA ally training program for faculty, staff, and affiliates. Training sessions are open to all employees and GT affiliates who have a sincere interest in learning more about how to practice allyship to the LGBTQIA community. Are you an undergraduate or graduate student? Sign up for one of our Safe Space: Peer Education sessions instead. Learn More Mental Health Resource Folder Additional copies of the Mental Health Resource folder are available through the Division of Student Life. To request additional copies, send an email to studentlife@studentlife.gatech.edu and include your name, department, number of copies requested and mailing code for delivery. Click this link to download a copy of the Mental Health Resource Folder. Emergency Resource Postcard Download a 4x6 campus resources reference card. Faculty How to Guide: Traumatic Events As faculty, you may be the most constant figure in students’ lives. When tragedy strikes – whether it is a student death, social justice cause, car accident, fire or hurricane, students will look to you to help them sort out their feelings and thoughts about the situation, the meaning it might have in their lives, and how to deal with the aftermath. And remember that a student doesn't need to be connected to the tragedy to be affected. Download our quick guide for supporting students through traumatic events. Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login