Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Groups Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Student Groups You are here: Home About the Directory About the Directory Important information about eligibility for and inclusion in the Columbia University Student Group Directory. Expand all Collapse all What does it mean to "sponsor" a site? Faculty and administrative advisors sponsor a site by approving of the student group request to own a website on the Columbia Sites platform and by signing a service level agreement, and signing a scope of work if necessary. A service level agreement outlines the services available through the platform and identifies those the group has chosen. It also identifies all parties to the agreement, along with the responsibilities each owes to the other parties regarding the platform. The basic level of service is free. A scope of work identifies and defines any custom work agreed to by all parties to the service level agreement and indicates the cost of such work. All work requiring custom development is a paid add-on. Who is responsible for the directory? The directory is a partnership between Columbia University Information Technology, the Office of Communications and Public Affairs, the Office of the Provost, and the Office of University Life. It is maintained by the Office of University Life. How do I suggest a change? Email suggested changes to [email protected]. What should I know about policies and guidelines for using the platform? A number of University policies and guidelines inform the appropriate use of the platform and the directory. Some of these are: Acceptable Usage of Information Resources User Guide to Safe Computing Information Security Charter Read about other important polices and guidelines. Contact Us Office of University Life 208 Philosophy Hall, MC 1234 1150 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 [email protected] Office of University Life208 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close