Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Scholarships Scholarships are funded by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) and by each of the 10 colleges of NC State University. In addition, the university is privileged to offer distinctive programs, such as the Park and Caldwell Scholarships. We also accept scholarships from other organizations and foundations. Types of Scholarships: Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid College-based scholarships Employer-affiliated scholarships Rising freshmen distinctive scholarships Current student distinctive scholarships Graduate student funding Miscellaneous funding Frequently asked questions Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid offers scholarship opportunities to enrolled students. To apply visit go.ncsu.edu/packassist. New students can apply upon acceptance. Applications received by February 15 will receive priority consideration. College-Based Scholarships Each college at NC State offers scholarship opportunities to students enrolled in its academic programs. To apply for scholarships with the colleges listed below, visit go.ncsu.edu/packassist. The application opens December 1. New students can apply once admitted to the university. Agriculture & Life Sciences Education Engineering Exploratory Studies Humanities & Social Sciences Management Sciences Veterinary Medicine Design Natural Resources For the following college, consult the college website for specific criteria, application materials and important deadlines. Textiles Employer-Affiliated Scholarships Eligibility for employer affiliated scholarships requires the applicant’s parent(s) to have a particular employment affiliation. Frequently the FAFSA is also required. Students are considered for employer affiliated scholarships based on their Pack ASSIST application responses. Participating employer affiliated scholarships include: Balfour Beatty Construction Scholarship Carrier/Bryant Dependent Scholarship City of Raleigh Dependent Scholarship Cross & Chalice J. Smith Capel Scholarship Finance & Administration Scholarship George and Reba Worsley Scholarship NC State Employee Dependent’s Tuition Scholarship News & Observer Scholarship Smithfield Foundation Scholarship Southeastern Gas Association Dependent Scholarship Student Action for Farmworkers Scholarship Tom Glover Memorial Scholarship Rising Freshmen Distinctive Scholarships NC State offers a limited number of competitive scholarships for entering freshmen in an effort to recognize and encourage academic ability and talent. To be considered, students must apply for admission by November 1 and indicate ‘early admission’ on the application. Park Scholarships – Prestigious, competitive academic scholarship program for students who demonstrated exceptional academic ability, potential in leadership and service, and exemplary character. General Hugh Shelton Leadership Initiative Scholarship – Competitive academic scholarship program to promote the mission of the Shelton initiative, “to inspire, educate and develop value-based leaders committed to personal integrity, professional ethics and selfless service.” Chancellor’s Leadership Scholarship – Program for students who demonstrated leadership potential, academic achievement, personal talents, unique work or service experience, and financial need. Applicants should demonstrate an understanding and appreciation of diversity. Goodnight Scholars Program – The Goodnight Scholars Program is a unique scholarship for outstanding students in the STEM and education disciplines. It is available to students from low- and middle-income North Carolina families, and is valued at $20,500 per year for up to four years. A comprehensive professional development program allows students to grow into tomorrow’s leaders, innovators and entrepreneurs. Current Student Distinctive Scholarships Caldwell Fellows – The Caldwell Fellows program invests in students selected during their first year at NC State who share a passion to learn, grow and serve others. The Caldwell program provides extensive programming and leadership training, as well as fosters collaborative interaction with alumni, faculty and community partners. Graduate Student Funding Qualified graduate students pursuing master’s or doctoral degrees may apply for fellowships, assistantships and other resources offered through individual colleges and the Graduate School. Prospective and current students wishing to be considered for fellowship and grant opportunities should contact Dr. David Shafer, assistant dean of the Graduate School. Please note that some fellowship programs require students to submit GRE scores to be considered for graduate resources. Miscellaneous Funding Gatling Grant – The Gatling Grant was established by alumnus John Gatling to fund educational opportunities for students who are born with the last name Gatlin or Gatling. NC VA Scholarship – Students receiving a NC VA Scholarship should submit a copy of the NC VA financial aid offer to the university’s Cashier’s Office and submit the NC VA Scholarship Notification Form to the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid. Federal VA Benefits – Students receiving VA benefits should refer to the university’s Cashier’s Office and Veteran’s Education for instructions. ROTC – Students participating in ROTC should ask their ROTC campus contact to submit their benefits information to the university’s Cashier’s Office. Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship – Offered to Pell Grant eligible students whose parent or guardian was a public safety officer or fire police officer and died in the line of duty. Students must be under 24 years old or enrolled in college at least part-time at the time of their parent or guardian’s death. Frequently asked questions When can I begin applying for scholarships for the 2022-2023 academic year? NEW students: Use the Pack ASSIST application to apply for most NC State scholarships. Once you have been admitted, you can access Pack ASSIST and apply for scholarships to NC State. For first consideration, submit your application by February 15, 2022. To apply for the Goodnight Scholarship, click HERE. To apply for the Park Scholarship, click HERE to access the Park Application, which is available during early September and due by November 1. CONTINUING students: The Pack ASSIST application opens for continuing students on December 1. For first consideration, submit your application by February 15th. When is the application deadline? There is no deadline; however, students who complete the application by February 15th are given first consideration when the scholarship selection process begins on February 16th. What if I miss the priority date, will I still be considered? Yes, you will be considered if you submit a scholarship application after February 15th; however, students who submit their application by February 15th will have first consideration. Do I have to complete the General Application every year? Yes, the General Application must be completed each year for scholarship consideration. There are several NC State Scholarships – do I have to apply for each scholarship? Use the Pack ASSIST application to apply for most NC State scholarships. Once you complete it, you may be presented with additional questions from your department. When your application is submitted, you will be auto-matched to the scholarships for which you meet the minimum requirements. Scholarship committees will then review individual applications in order to make selection decisions. NEW students: Use the Pack ASSIST application to apply for most NC State scholarships. Once you have been admitted, you can acces Pack ASSIST and apply for scholarships to NC State. For first consideration, submit your applcation by February 15, 2022. To apply for the Goodnight Scholarship, click HERE. To apply for the Park Scholarship, click HERE to access the Park Application, which is available during early September and due by November 1. CONTINUING students: The Pack ASSIST application opens for continuing students on December 1. For first consideration, submit your application by February 15th. I only want to apply for departmental scholarships, how do I do that? You will need to complete the general application and any departmental specific questions to be considered for departmental scholarships. Departments will NOT be able to consider you without completing the general application. Do I have to complete a FAFSA in order to be considered for a merit scholarship? Completing a FAFSA is typically not a requirement for a merit scholarship; however, in order to maximize your scholarship and financial aid eligibility, we recommend that you complete the FAFSA. Do scholarship committees have access to the answers on my admissions application? No, the Pack ASSIST application is independent of the admissions application. We encourage you to complete the Pack ASSIST application in its entirety. If you selected an admission essay smilar to the Pack ASSIST essay, you may copy and paste that essay into Pack ASSIST. NEW students: Use the Pack ASSIST application to apply for most NC State scholarships. Once you have been admitted, you can access Pack ASSIST and apply for scholarships to NC State. For first consideration, submit your applcation by February 15, 2022. To apply for the Park Scholarship, click HERE to access the Park Application; the Park Scholarships selection committee will review some admissions materials. CONTINUING students: The Pack ASSIST application opens for continuing students on December 1. For first consideration, submit your application by February 15th. Do I need to save my application as I work on it? Yes, you should save your application frequently by clicking Save and Keep Editing at the bottom of the page. The system will time you out after 30 minutes of inactivity so be sure to save frequently! What factors are considered for scholarship eligibility? Our selection process is comprehensive and considers several factors such as a student’s high school GPA, extracurricular involvement, and essay responses. Are ACT/SAT test scores required in order to be considered for scholarships? No, ACT/SAT scores are not required for merit scholarships. Applications will be evaluated using a comprehensive review process that takes into consideration factors such as a student’s high school GPA, extracurricular involvement, and essay responses. I completed my General Application, but now see a section called “Other Recommended Opportunities” – what are these scholarships? You may be presented with a few additional scholarship opportunities after submitting the General Application. Unlike most scholarships at NC State, these scholarships require a separate application in order to be considered for them. After I submit my application, can I make changes to it? Yes, you can update your submitted application. How will I know if you received my application? You will receive an email confirmation from scholarships@ncsu.edu once your application is submitted. If you do not receive this email, you have not completed the application process and will not be considered for applicable scholarships. When will I be notified if I am selected for a scholarship? Most departments and scholarship committees will notify newly admitted students by April 1st and continuing students after Spring grades are final. You will only receive a notification if you are offered an award, as we do not send regret emails. I am a newly admitted student- if I accept a scholarship, is that the same as accepting admission to NC State University? No. You must accept your admission to NC State University via the instructions provided in your admission decision letter. I have questions about the application, who should I ask? If your questions are regarding the general application contact your scholarship counselor. If your questions are regarding your college specific application, contact your department. Please note, in addition to the criteria noted for each individual opportunity, all scholarships at NC State University require the following criteria: Maintain full time enrollment Meet Satisfactory Academic Progress Total financial aid resources cannot exceed the Estimated Cost of Attendance Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.