Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation The Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance Student One Stop Search form Search this site × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Main menu How to Report Investigation Processes Support & Resources Employee Responsibilities Title IX Policies About Us Statement of Non-Discrimination The University of Oregon is committed to ensuring that all students have access to a quality learning experience and the opportunity to pursue their academic goals in a safe, supportive learning environment. Any form of discrimination or harassment, including sexual harassment or sexual violence, that interferes with a student’s ability to be an engaged learner is contrary to the community values of the institution. Discriminatory harassment, including sexual harassment, regardless of the relative power of the harasser, is disruptive of workplace and campus life, and denies its subject equal opportunity as a student, employee or campus community member. For questions or concerns about prohibited discrimination or harassment contact the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance. Sexual harassment is a form of discrimination on the basis of sex. The University of Oregon does not tolerate discrimination on the basis of sex—this includes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating and domestic violence, gender-based stalking and bullying, and other forms of harassment. Questions regarding sex or gender based discrimination and harassment Title IX may be referred to the University of Oregon’s Title IX Coordinator, who is located in the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights. Nicole Commissiong Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov About Us Our Team Notice of Privacy Practices Institutional Assessments Messages Statement of Non-Discrimination To report an act of gender discrimination, sexual assault, sexual violence, dating or domestic violence, or stalking contact any of the following campus and community resources: UO Police Department 541-346-2919 or DIAL 9-1-1 2141 E. 15th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 Office of Civil Rights U.S. Department of Education, Western Region 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Report a Concern Website Maintenance (Internal use only) Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene , OR 97403 Office: PeaceHealth North Building P: 541-346-3123 Contact Us oicrc@uoregon.edu Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation How to Report Investigation Processes Support & Resources Employee Responsibilities Title IX Policies About Us Our Team Notice of Privacy Practices Institutional Assessments Messages Statement of Non-Discrimination Take Action Apply Visit Give Quick Links Student One Stop