Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Ending your isolation period Main content start Step-by-step instructions for all students You can only be cleared to leave Stanford isolation under medical guidance from Vaden Health Services (or the Sports Medicine team for varsity athletes). Rapid tests will be made available to students in isolation as follows. Instructions Vaden will send you a message, via its patient portal, as you approach Day 7 in isolation. You are required to respond to this message to report that you have met the requirements to leave isolation. The message will provide the following guidance: Your isolation period will end on Day 7 if you test negative with a rapid test on Day 7; you are symptom free or have much improved symptoms; you have not had fever (measured or felt) for at least 48 hours without medication; and you would like to leave isolation on that day. You will be required to upload an image showing your negative test result and ID when you respond to the Vaden message. Otherwise, your isolation period ends after Day 10. Rapid tests will be made available to students in designated quarantine/isolation spaces or isolating in their room as follows: If you check into isolation space You will receive a rapid test kit when you check in to the Q/I desk. Students isolating in their rooms and receiving meal delivery from R&DE A rapid test kit will be delivered to you. If you have not already done so, complete this form to report your positive test results and to begin receiving support services such as meal delivery. Then read this information to become acquainted with the expectations and resources in place for you. Students on campus receiving meal delivery from Uber Eats Pick up a rapid test kit at the Quarantine/Isolation Housing Front Desk located at 143 Ayrshire Farm Lane, Apartment 104, Stanford, CA 94305. The Q/I Desk hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. Students not receiving meal delivery from R&DE or Uber Eats Pick up a rapid test kit at the Quarantine/Isolation Housing Front Desk located at 143 Ayrshire Farm Lane, Apartment 104, Stanford, CA 94305. The Q/I Desk hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. Varsity athletes You will receive a rapid test from the Sports Medicine team. Students isolating in non-Stanford housing Here are options in your community. On day 7 of isolation, if you are picking up a rapid test kit at the Q/I desk, you will be asked to show ID and the Vaden message inviting you to test out of isolation. Please remember to wear a face covering, preferably KN95 or N95. Return to your room to take the test and follow the instructions above. Other requirements and information Return your key and access card! If you are in a university isolation space, return your key and access card to the key return drop-box next to the Quarantine/Isolation Housing Front Desk (143 Ayrshire Farm Lane, Apartment 104) key pick-up window. Note the access points (red stars on map) from either Campus Drive or Escondido Road. Parking is limited, but available directly in front of EV 143 for students to drop off keys. Instructions will be present at the front door/entry. The cards are cleaned/sterilized and made ready to be reissued to the next student housed in that location. These cards are a premium and need to be returned or deactivated for security reasons. If you don't return your key and card, you may be charged a fee. Questions? Contact the Q/I desk or 650.784.5961). Do not test for 90 days with Color The CDC does not recommend retesting using a viral diagnostic test like Color within 90 days because a positive result without new symptoms more likely represents persistent shedding of viral RNA, rather than an active infection. Your Health Check badge has been adjusted to reflect the 90-day testing exemption. You do not need to participate in weekly surveillance testing for 90 days. We've created this hub, Resources for Our Communities, as a way to connect individuals to a variety of services, guidance, and more. Take time to care for yourself and connect with friends, family and other support. You do not have to experience anything on your personal journey on your own. Please continue to take good care of yourself! Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top