Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Living Learning Communities Contact Us Instagram LivingLearning@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About People Back to Top Nav Communities First-Year Opportunities Thriving Through Transitions LLC LLCs Open to First-Years Global Village About the Global Village Great Issues Scholars in Residence Arabic Language Program French Language Program Italian Language Program Japanese Language Program Identity-Based Communities Asian and Asian American LLC Hillel LLC LALAC House Native American House Shabazz Center for Intellectual Inquiry Triangle House Language Communities Chinese Language House La Casa Max Kade German Center Shared Interest Communities Entrepreneurship LLC Foley House Interfaith Floor Sustainable Living Center Back to Top Nav Get Involved How to Get Involved Undergraduate Students Faculty Staff Post-Docs and Graduate Students LLC Live-In Advisors Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search First-Year Opportunities Global Village Identity-Based Communities Language Communities Chinese Language House La Casa Max Kade German Center Shared Interest Communities Share Max Kade German Center The Max Kade German Center offers comfortable, spacious living accommodations for American and international students who share an interest in the language and culture of German-speaking countries. The exterior of Maxwell Hall, which houses the Max Kade German Center. PreviousNext About the Community Both English and German are spoken at the Max Kade German Center, and advanced German language skills are not required. Students live in individual rooms in one of four co-ed apartments, and each group of four shares living and cooking facilities. In addition, the Max Kade German Center includes conference, classroom, office, and kitchen facilities and a lounge for social gatherings. The Center also provides quiet study space, the use of its library for Center activities, and a gathering place for activities of the German Club (Germania). The Max Kade German Center has a live-in advisor, a Fulbright Language Teaching Assistant from Germany, who assists with planning a variety of cultural programs and encourages residents to develop and use their German language skills. While German language proficiency is not required of Max Kade German Center residents, and English is spoken much of the time, all Max Kade German Center residents are encouraged to participate in the community's activities. The Max Kade German Center, Germania, and the German Studies Department work together to host events such as the Pantoffelkino film series, Kaffeestunde, Stammtische, lectures, and parties. The Max Kade German Center was built with funds donated by the Max Kade Foundation and is sponsored by the Department of German Studies. Residency Expectations Residents are expected to participate in at least 50% of the Max Kade German Center activities. Faculty Advisor Nicolay (Nick) Ostrau Live-In Advisor Carla Harold Application Prompts What is your present level of proficiency in German? If you do not speak the language already, do you plan to study at Dartmouth? What experience, if any, have you had with other aspects of German culture? Why do you want to live in the Max Kade German Center? Are you willing to participate in at least 50% of the extracurricular activities held there? What contributions do you feel you will make to community living at the Max Kade German Center? Location The Max Kade German Center is located in Maxwell Hall. View floor plans on the website of the Office of Residential Life. Main menu Dartmouth College Living Learning Communities About About People Communities First-Year Opportunities Thriving Through Transitions LLC LLCs Open to First-Years Global Village About the Global Village Great Issues Scholars in Residence Arabic Language Program French Language Program Italian Language Program Japanese Language Program Identity-Based Communities Asian and Asian American LLC Hillel LLC LALAC House Native American House Shabazz Center for Intellectual Inquiry Triangle House Language Communities Chinese Language House La Casa Max Kade German Center Shared Interest Communities Entrepreneurship LLC Foley House Interfaith Floor Sustainable Living Center Get Involved How to Get Involved Undergraduate Students Faculty Staff Post-Docs and Graduate Students LLC Live-In Advisors Ribbon Footer People Associate Director for Living Learning Programs and Academic Initiatives Abi France-Kelly livinglearning@dartmouth.edu Find Us Address Undergraduate Housing North Massachusetts Hall 14 Massachusetts Row HB 6231 Hanover, NH 03755 Residential Education Robinson Hall 6 North Main Street, 3rd Floor HB 6112 Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 603-646-0080 HB: HB 6112 Email: LivingLearning@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Instagram Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback