Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Engagement and Well-Being Main navigation Home About the Vice President Mission & Vision Org Chart Campus Services Student Life Hours of Operation Student Services and Support Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion Engagement, Activities & Community Health, Wellness & Recreation Leadership Opportunities Student Advocacy & Responsibilities Open Search Search Search Home While a dedicated focus on academic pursuits is key, success in college is also determined by a student’s level of connection and involvement with the campus community, as well as how much they practice the various dimensions of wellness. The newly created Division of Student Engagement and Well-Being complements the classroom experience and promotes student success at Georgia Tech through a comprehensive portfolio of activities, functions and programs that: facilitate life transitions enhance and support learning cultivate leadership and civic responsibility respond to the holistic needs of students from various backgrounds and identities. Campus Services Campus Services facilitates the creation of a vibrant learn, live, work, play community and enhances the quality of campus life for students, faculty, staff and guests through the delivery of extraordinary services, programs and facilities. Learn More Student Life Student Life prepares students for their future by fostering learning beyond the classroom through innovative and transformative experiences. Programs and services focus on student transition, learning, leadership, wellness and success, as well as student and parent engagement. Learn More Health, Wellness & Recreation Engagement, Activities & Community Student Advocacy & Responsibilities Leadership Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion Campus Life Conversations with Cabrera – Dr. Luoluo Hong With three decades as a student affairs professional, Luoluo Hong’s commitment to Tech students, their success, and their well-being is profound — and personal. VP's Student Communications Self-Care Strategies & Sexual Assault Awareness Month I can hardly believe that we are near the end of another academic year! With only a few days left of the semester, I want to take this opportunity to applaud you for getting to this point of your academic journey; it took perseverance and tenacity to do so. I hope you each take the time to remember the obstacles you’ve overcome in the past months, as well as celebrate your successes, both big and small. April 24, 2022 Tips for Finishing the Semester Successfully Happy Spring! I hope you were able to take some time off to relax during Spring Break. Whether you chose to travel away from Atlanta or enjoyed a staycation, it will be important for you to recharge and prepare for the remainder of the semester. March 28, 2022 Covid-19 At-Home Test Kits on Campus To provide students with options for immediate testing needs, Student Engagement and Well-Being has procured a limited supply of at-home testing kits to facilitate self-care for students who are experiencing symptoms or illness that could be Covid-19 related. February 10, 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN