Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Departments The Division departments and the Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students assists students in the resolution of problems, provides information about, and referral to campus resources, and promotes initiatives that address students’ needs and interests. Center for Assessment, Referral and Education (CARE) The Center for Assessment, Referral and Education (CARE) is Georgia Tech's resource for a primary assessment and referral to on and off campus mental health and well-being resources. Learn More Civic Engagement Promotes global awareness to nurture the development of responsible citizens who are committed to building community in a complex and diverse world. Programs include Alternative Service Breaks, Jumpstart, MLK Day of Service, and EngageATL. Learn More Counseling Center The Counseling Center offers a full range of counseling and psychological services to help facilitate lifelong personal development, promote mental health, and assist students in preventing or reducing stress for currently enrolled Georgia Tech students. Learn More Development and the Parents Fund The Office of Development for Student Life helps ensure that Georgia Tech students continue to benefit from an active campus environment through cultivating financial support for student programs, organizations and activities. Learn More Disability Services This office helps ensure that students with documented disabilities receive the access and accommodations needed for a rich and engaging student experience. Learn More Fraternity & Sorority Life The Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life helps Georgia Tech Greek organizations and their members thrive by providing a comprehensive range of leadership, administrative and governance support. Learn More Georgia Tech Arts Georgia Tech Arts weaves art into the learning and research of students and faculty across the Institute and invites the entire community to join in these encounters. Through a blend of professional performances, exhibitions, installations, residencies, and support for student and faculty ideas, Georgia Tech Arts places art at the epicenter of supporting the Strategic Objectives of the entire Institute. Learn More Health Initiatives Health Initiatives provides upstream, innovative, and relevant programs, services and initiatives to help students and employees thrive. The team creatively designs prevention and education efforts to promote, nurture, and enrich the Georgia Tech community of health, well-being, and caring. Services include health and well-being educational programs, events and workshops, nutrition counseling, and sexual violence prevention, education and response. Learn More Leadership Education & Development The Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) program offers a thoughtful and intentional series of academic, and co-curricular activities to help students prepare for leadership in a rapidly evolving global society. Learn More LGBTQIA Resource Center This center coordinates a range of programs and events throughout the year aimed at educating the community about LGBTQIA issues, providing safe spaces, to build community and explore their identities, and facilitating conversations about LGBTQIA diversity, equity and inclusion. Learn More New Student and Transition Programs This office coordinates a variety of programs and services to support the orientation, transition, and academic success of new students. New Student & Transition Programs (NSTP) offers a combination of valuable information, community building activities, time-honored Georgia Tech traditions, and leadership opportunities. Learn More Parent & Family Programs Parent & Family Programs helps families stay connected to their students through helpful resources, involvement opportunities, and timely information so families can share in this exciting and important time in their student's life. Annual events include: Sibs Day in the Spring and Family Weekend in the Fall of each year. Learn More Research and Assessment The Office of Research and Assessment continuously collects, analyzes, interprets and reports data for the purpose of improving departmental programs and services. Results are used to inform data-based decision-making and demonstrate evidence of institutional effectiveness. Learn More Student Diversity Programs The Office of Student Diversity Programs furthers Georgia Tech's strategic commitment to inclusive excellence by offering educational and co-curricular opportunities that enhance interaction and learning across diverse groups. Learn More Student Integrity The Office of Student Integrity helps ensure that the standards of excellence are upheld through education and adjudication. Learn More Student Media The Office of Student Media helps students communicate both within the campus and to the larger community while gaining real-world experience in journalism and creative skills. Student organizations include: The Technique, The Blueprint, The North Avenue Review, The T-Book, Erato Magazine, WREK-Atlanta 91.1FM, and The Tower. Learn More Student Organization Finance Office The Student Organization Finance Office (SOFO) plays an integral role in helping more than 400 chartered student organizations and the Student Government Association with financial administration and accounting. Learn More Student Organizations Promotes and strengthens student involvement and engagement through leadership development opportunities within more than 500 student organizations. Learn More Veterans Resource Center The Veterans Resource Center supports Georgia Tech's growing student veteran population to transition and thrive in the academic arena. The center strives to foster an environment where student veterans will make the most of their academic and non-academic experiences. Learn More Women's Resource Center The Women's Resource Center serves the needs and interests of female students, faculty and staff at Georgia Tech as well as promoting understanding among Georgia Tech's diverse community of men and women. Learn More Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login