Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Academic Support OSA coordinates a range of academic support services - from course and exam preparation to one-on-one learning skills consultations. Sub Navigation In This Section Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Academic Support OSA coordinates a range of academic support services - from course and exam preparation to one-on-one learning skills consultations. The Office of Student Affairs facilitates workshops and panel presentations regarding study skills, time management and balancing priorities while in medical school. We provide resources to students for the purposes of course preparation, licensing exam preparation, and other academic matters, including issues relating to learning strategies and wellness. Accommodations The Warren Alpert Medical School values diversity and inclusion both in and outside the classroom. We believe that variability amongst our learners and neurodiversity are important considerations in academic support. Our goal is to partner with our adult learners to provide a physically and educationally accessible environment to all students. For those students with documented learning issues or physical disabilities, accommodations are available by request. Requesting Accommodations Students are responsible for requesting accommodations in a timely manner so that the administration has ample time to make appropriate arrangements. Complete and submit an Accommodations Request Form. Ensure that all relevant documentation has been submitted to Lorrie Gehlbach. Make an appointment to discuss your request with Lorrie Gehlbach. Other Student Responsibilities AMS partners with students to best ensure academic success. Students are responsible for proactively seeking accommodations and taking advantage of appropriate academic and personal support when necessary. This may include meeting with our Learning Specialist consultant and taking advantage of peer tutors. Basic Information for Students with Disabilities The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), building on Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, mandates that: no qualified person with a disability shall, on the basis of disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity which receives or benefits from federal financial assistance. According to federal regulations, otherwise qualified students with documented disabilities are entitled to equal treatment at institutions of higher education, and to reasonable accommodation if needed. The academic program at Alpert Medical School represents essential core curricula. Students admitted should be capable of completing the full curriculum of required courses and electives under the established university policies. All students and applicants must be capable of meeting the technical standards for medicine for their program of study with or without reasonable accommodation. Accommodations can be made for disabilities, but all students must be able to perform in a reasonably independent manner. While aids and intermediaries may be accommodated they may not substitute for essential clinical skills or supplement clinical and ethical judgment. Thus, accommodations cannot eliminate, replace or stand in the stead of essential program elements. Students in the medical school have the right to file grievances/appeals alleging that they are being subjected to prohibited discriminatory treatment in a program or activity of the university based on their disability status. Confidentiality Disability information is held in the strictest confidence. All documentation and correspondence concerning a student's disability are kept in a locked file at the Alpert Medical School. Once appropriate accommodations have been granted, those tasked with implementing those accommodations do not have access to a student’s diagnostic information. All questions about accommodations should be directed to Lorrie Gehlbach at Lorrie_Gehlbach@brown.edu. Learning Specialist Learning and Accessibility Specialist Lorrie Gehlbach is available for consultation and educational services. Students may choose to meet with her once or multiple times to address learning difficulties and strategize efforts to improve. Lorrie works to help students with: Assessing academic progress and developing strategies for improvement Designing specific study plans based on individual needs Common issues that are addressed include: Study Skills Test-Taking Skills Time Management Building Test Confidence Neuropsychological Assessment Students experiencing ongoing difficulty with medical school academics may be offered a referral to a community provider for a neuropsychological evaluation. The neuropsychological evaluation may provide documentation of a learning disorder or disability that would enable the student to apply for accommodations such as extended exam time or a reduced distraction room in which to take an exam. Student referrals to neuropsychological assessments are private. To make an appointment with Lorrie Gehlbach, please contact her at Lorrie_Gehlbach@brown.edu. Preparation for USMLE Exams Students are generally very well prepared for the USMLE licensing exams by the medical education curriculum here at AMS. However, we also assist students in their preparation for these exams through content review sessions, tutoring, student panels, and group and individual planning meetings with the administrators in charge of preparation programming. For more information, please contact your individual Step advisor. Tutoring Tutoring is available through the Office of Medical Education. More information is available in Canvas. Canvas Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academic Support Open details for Academic Support Bookmark this Page