Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Search Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Travel Registration Withdrawal Policy About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Travel Registration Withdrawal Policy About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Home Students Withdrawal Policy AAA Withdrawal Policy Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Travel Registration Withdrawal Policy Students must decline their space on a study abroad program in writing within 2 weeks of acceptance. If a student does not withdraw within this time period, the student will be subject to the withdrawal policy. Students receiving financial aid who withdraw from a program should discuss potential aid implications of withdrawal with the Office of Financial Assistance and Student Employment before withdrawing. Voluntary Withdrawal Voluntary withdrawals refer to all student-initiated withdrawals, including reasons outside of the student’s direct control (visa, medical, etc). Students must notify the Study Abroad office via email of their withdrawal. Students are required to communicate their withdrawal to studyabroad@miami.edu with the subject line “Withdrawal from [name of program]”. This notification must come from the student and include the full name of the study abroad program and reason for withdrawal. Students will receive a reply from Study Abroad confirming message receipt and outlining any remaining steps the student must take. Date of withdrawal: the withdrawal date will be recorded as the date the email was received, unless sent after business hours or over a weekend or holiday in which case the withdrawal date would be recorded as the next business day. Involuntary Withdrawal Study Abroad reserves the right to withdraw students due to academic or disciplinary issues; students may also be withdrawn due to non-responsiveness or non-compliance with program requirements. Students will be informed via email sent to their UM email address of their withdrawal from a program. Date of withdrawal: The date of withdrawal will be the sent date of the withdrawal notice email. Host institutions reserve the right to not accept students or rescind admission. Students will be informed of their withdrawal either by the host institution or the UM Study Abroad office. Date of withdrawal: The date of withdrawal will be the sent date of the withdrawal notice email. Fee Obligations and Timetable The fee timetable below applies to all withdrawals regardless of whether the withdrawal is voluntary or involuntary. Non-recoverable costs refer to costs paid out on the student’s behalf for the program abroad (i.e. health insurance, ground transportation, lodging, provider fees, etc). UM Fees: Any refunds or charges will be processed in CaneLink and payment can be made/received accordingly. Faculty-Led Programs: Depending on the program, non-recoverable costs may exceed the full program fee. 90-31 days prior to program start date $500 + any non-recoverable costs 30 days or less prior to program start date $1000 + any non-recoverable costs Program start date through end of program Full program fee or $1,000 (whichever is greater) + any non-recoverable costs Programs with a Program Fee (U Programs and Seville): Depending on the program, non-recoverable costs may exceed the full program fee. 90-31 days prior to program start date $500 + any non-recoverable costs 30 days or less prior to program start date $650 + any non-recoverable costs Program start date through end of program Full program fee + any non-recoverable costs Programs without a Program Fee (UM Partner Semester Programs and Summer Direct Enroll Programs): 90-31 days prior to program start date $150 30 days or less prior to program start date through end of program $500 UM Tuition: Any refunds or charges will be processed in CaneLink and payment can be made/received accordingly. Students receiving financial aid who withdraw from a program should discuss potential aid implications of withdrawal with the Office of Financial Assistance & Student Employment before withdrawing. Withdrawal from Faculty-Led Programs: Prior to the program start date, students are liable for all non-recoverable costs. After the program start date, tuition charges will be calculated based on factors relating to the start and end dates of the program, length of program, withdrawal date, and the current University of Miami refund policy. Withdrawal from Semester (U and UM Partner) Programs: Tuition will be refunded in accordance with current University of Miami refund schedule and policy, less any non-recoverable costs. Note that depending on the program, non-recoverable costs may exceed the full cost of tuition. Host Institution Fees: Students are responsible for communicating their withdrawal to their host institution, unless informed otherwise. Students will owe the host institution any required fees in accordance with the host institution’s policies. Other Fees: Expenses related to the study abroad program for which the student/family have incurred or are obligated to pay remain the student’s responsibility. Appeal Process Students electronically sign acknowledgement and understanding of the withdrawal policy as part of the study abroad application. If the withdrawal was due to extreme and extenuating circumstances, students may appeal the withdrawal fee. In order for an appeal to be considered, students must submit the Study Abroad Withdrawal Fee Appeal Form and supporting documentation within 4 weeks of the withdrawal date to studyabroad@miami.edu with subject line [Study Abroad Withdrawal Fee Appeal]. Appeals will be reviewed by the Study Abroad Appeal Committee; decisions will be made within 10 business days of submission. Decisions will be communicated to the student by email to the student’s UM email address. An appeal may be submitted in the following circumstances: Active Military Duty If you are withdrawing from your program due to a call to active duty, submit a copy of the military activation orders showing dates that conflict with the program dates. Family Illness or Death If you are withdrawing from your program due to a family medical emergency (surgery, long-term illness diagnosed), this requires documentation from attending physician. If you are withdrawing from your program due to a death in your immediate family, submit a copy of the death certificate, obituary, or remembrance from the funeral. Your appeal must include documentation clearly showing your relationship to the deceased. Medical Emergency If you are withdrawing from your program for medical reasons (can be physical, mental, emotional, etc.), this requires documentation from attending physician. It is your responsibility to supply sufficient medical documentation. Unanticipated Change in Financial Situation This includes but is not limited to: Unexpected significant loss of financial resources Unexpected significant increase in financial obligations Documentation demonstrating the significant change in financial status is required in order for your appeal to be considered. You must demonstrate that the change occurred after you were accepted to study abroad. Examples of documentation appropriate to submit include bank statements, unexpected bills, unemployment paperwork, proof of bankruptcy, etc. Other Unusual or Extenuating Circumstances If you experience unusual or extenuating circumstances beyond your control that prevent you from participating in your study abroad program, you may submit an appeal. You must include verifiable documentation supporting the timeline and reason for withdrawal. Appeal Process Tips: Use clear, descriptive language to explain your circumstances. Be as specific as possible. Include a timeline of events leading to your request. Provide verifiable facts that substantiate your claim. Explain what happened/what changed, and why. Provide official supporting documentation (e.g. on letterhead) that pertains to the situation. The appeal must be authored by you, not your parent or guardian. Appeals are unlikely to be successful if: You did not understand the financial obligations You were not eligible for financial aid or did not receive the amount you expected You did not receive a scholarship You were selected for another opportunity (study abroad program, job, internship, etc.) Your academic plans changed Your petition did not include verifiable supporting documentation Your petition includes ambiguous or unclear documentation University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Study Abroad Dooly Memorial Classroom Building 1111 Memorial Drive, Suite 125 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3434 305-284-3434 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices