Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Dean of Students The Dean of Students has a long and rich history and tradition at Tech, 99 years of providing support and advocacy on behalf of students! The Office assists students in the resolution of problems, provides information about, and referral to campus resources, and promotes initiatives that address students’ needs and interests. In addition the Office provides educational and co-curricular activities and experiences that encourage students to have a positive college experience. Meet the Dean of Students! John M. Stein has a career in Higher Education that spans over 30 years. Stein is completing his 19th year at Georgia Tech, having served as the Director of Success Programs from 2002-2006, Assistant/Associate Vice President and Dean of Students from 2006-2015, and Vice President and Dean of Students from 2015-2021. Prior to Georgia Tech, Dean Stein held a number of administrative positions at various colleges including working in Residence Life and Housing, Academic Advising, and Student Affairs. John has served as the Dean of Students at two others colleges before being appointed Dean of Students. Stein’s educational background is in psychology and education. He earned a BA in Psychology from the State University of New York and two Masters degrees: one in Counseling Psychology and the other in Educational Psychology. Get Help Now Mental Heath Resources Student Handbook Student Assistance Services The Office of the Dean of Students provides a number of services to assist students with medical and personal emergencies. To access these services during regular business hours, students and/or their families may notify the office at (404) 894-2565. In the event of an after-hours emergency, individuals should contact the Georgia Tech Police Department at (404) 894-2500 and request that the “Dean on Call” be contacted. There is an emergency “Dean on Call” at all times to assist students in need. Personal Referrals The Office of the Dean of Students can contact the many campus resources such as the Counseling Center, Women’s Resource Center, Health Center, and other community services for assistance in arranging emotional or personal support for students. Academic Referrals Students often need assistance in making decisions about academic matters. Our office can assist students with contacting their faculty and/or major department to resolve questions or concerns. Withdrawing from School Some students find that a personal or medical emergency during the school term can impact their ability to attend classes or make up the missed work. In these cases, students may decide to withdraw from Tech. Our office can assist with the Georgia Tech withdrawal procedures. Assistance in Contacting and Coordinating Family Needs The Office of Dean of Students can serve as a contact point for families. Please feel free to contact us regarding any questions you have about policies, services, and special events. Parents and family members who are concerned about the well-being or success of their student are encouraged to contact our office for advice and support. Get Involved Transition & Success Academic, Financial or Personal Assistance Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login