Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Main content start Here you can review guidance on COVID exposure testing timelines and testing when you develop symptoms. COVID Exposure Guidance If you are exposed to COVID, review the chart below for guidance based on your vaccination status and the type of exposure. Tested positive? Here's detailed guidance on what to do next: tinyurl.com/positivetesting. Type of COVID Exposure Unmasked prolonged face-to-face, high-risk exposure (for example, shared bedrooms, partners, and family, or prolonged face to face exposures) Other unmasked, lower-risk exposure Masked exposure Completed 2 doses of Pfizer, Moderna, or other WHO-approved vaccines or one dose of J&J AND Boosted (or not yet booster eligible)* Quarantine and test Day 5 post-exposure, before returning to normal activities. No period of quarantine. Test immediately and on Day 5 post-exposure. No period of quarantine. Test if symptoms develop. Unvaccinated OR Has not completed second does of vaccination OR Booster eligible and not yet completed* Quarantine and test Day 7 post-exposure, before returning to normal activities. Quarantine and test Day 7 post-exposure, before returning to normal activities. No period of quarantine. Test if symptoms develop. Infected with COVID in the last 90 days No period of quarantine. Test if symptoms develop. No period of quarantine. Test if symptoms develop. No period of quarantine. Test if symptoms develop. *You are booster eligible: 5 months after the second dose of Pfizer, Moderna, or other WHO-approved vaccines or 2 months after J&J. (If you have recently been infected with COVID, you are eligible for a booster once you have recovered.) More information on COVID booster shots, here Quarantine Quarantine is used when you have not yet been diagnosed with COVID by a confirmatory test, but have been exposed or have symptoms and we want to prevent exposing others. (Students should quarantine in-place and do not need to request isolation spaces.) While quarantining, do not eat inside dining halls, go to class, or to other communal indoor spaces on campus. When indoors, you should avoid any unmasked contact with others. When outdoors, maintain proper physical distance when unmasked. Dining Halls You may go to the dining hall, mask up (KN95 mask preferred), select your meal, and then take your plate outdoors or to your room to eat physically distanced from others. Please return your plate. If you are severely symptomatic, don’t feel well enough to leave your room, and test negative for COVID-19, reach out to a Resident Director or Graduate Life Office Dean for assistance with meals. Here's guidance for roommates of students in quarantine Note: View high resolution PDF by tapping on graphic. To access an HTML version of this graphic, you may do so here. What if I Develop Symptoms? COVID symptoms most commonly appear within 2-5 days after exposure to the virus. In general, symptoms tend to be less severe in those who have recently received a booster. Common symptoms include: Sore or scratchy throat Stuffy or runny nose Fatigue Muscle aches Fever Chills Headache Coughing/chest congestion If you have symptoms: Take a COVID test immediately. Rapid antigen tests, self-administered home tests with immediate results, can be very effective in diagnosing COVID in people with symptoms, and a positive rapid test should be treated as a true positive. A single negative rapid test does not completely rule out COVID, as it can be a less sensitive test early in the course of infection. That noted, a negative rapid test is reassuring about your chance of being a meaningful infectious risk to others at the time of your test. If you have ongoing symptoms but test negative on a rapid test, you should submit a Color test and if symptoms persist, repeat a second rapid test in 24 hours. While waiting for your test results Call Vaden Medical Services at 650.498.2336 if you need urgent medical advice. Keep away from others, and wear a mask around roommates, apartment-mates, and family members. Do not go into the dining hall, classes, and indoor gatherings until you meet the criteria below for resuming normal activity. You can still receive grab-and-go meals at the dining halls. Rest in your room. Request academic support if needed via your Undergraduate Advising Director or, for graduate and professional students, your program's student services staff person, faculty advisor, or director of graduate studies Please note: You have an increased risk of testing positive for COVID-19 if you have: traveled in the past 10 days. attended a wedding or other social event. been to a bar, concert, or other off-campus gatherings. had close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. are NOT boosted. are NOT vaccinated. You can resume normal activities when: You have not had a fever for 48 hours without fever-reducing medication AND your symptoms are improving AND you have received COVID-negative test results after the onset of symptoms. (Color or rapid antigen tests) You can find general advice on managing symptoms here. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top