Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance Perform a Degree Audit Your Degree Audit shows how the courses you’ve completed—as well as those you plan to take—fulfill your major requirements. Use the audit to track your progress, plan for future semesters and view a summary of your credit hours and GPA. To access the Degree Audit: MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Planning & Enrollment tile > Degree Audit Log into MyPack Portal using your Unity ID and password View your Student Homepage Select the ‘Planning & Enrollment’ tile From the left-hand navigation menu, select ‘Degree Audit’ You will see a collapsed list of your declared majors and/or minors. Select which ones to expand and view. You can select the checkbox at the top of the screen to Include Planned Courses in your degree audit. You will see your full list of graduation requirements for the program, along with the following corresponding icons that indicate your completion status: Completed This icon will appear if you have successfully completed the requirement. Enrolled This icon will appear if you are currently enrolled in a course that meets this requirement. Incomplete/Late This icon will appear if you have not yet successfully completed this requirement, or your grade for the course has not yet been posted. Planned This icon will appear if a course that meets this requirement has been added to your Pack Planner. Unmet This icon will appear if you have not yet completed or planned this requirement. The Pack Planner and the Degree Audit work together to make your degree planning easier. Learn More Features of the Degree Audit Program Information At the top of the screen, you will see the following information: Program: College enrolled in Plan: Major or Minor Sub-Plan: Concentration or focus area, if applicable Requisite Term Advisor: Advisor for this particular program Total Units: The Total Units tool shows a detailed breakdown of your hours completed or left to complete at NC State Cumulative GPA Major GPA Applied for Graduation status Other Features Requirement Details: Some of your requirements may have “Rqmnt Details” (Requirement Details) listed to the right. Select this link to view a list of courses that can satisfy a requirement. Minimum Hours Required: This indicates the total hours required for a specific major. Your Degree Audit will also show you how many credits you have remaining to complete your degree. Depending on your major and course selection, the hours required to complete your degree may be more than the minimum. Performing a "What If?" Report The “What If?” feature of the degree audit shows how your course credits would apply to another major or minor plan. To run a “What-If?” report, select the “Create What-If? Report” button in the top right corner of the Degree Audit. Choose a desired Major or Minor from the dropdown menu. Select whether to Save as Intended Major/Minor, and click ‘Create Report.’ NOTE: Saving as Intended Major/Minor does NOT guarantee transfer into this program, nor does it complete a Change of Degree Application. Once the What-If? has been completed, you will be able to see how your completed, enrolled and planned courses will apply to this program. If a course requirement has not been met, you can choose ‘Add to Planner’ next to that requirement to add the course to your Pack Planner. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.