Skip to content Search for: GET INVOLVED JOIN AN ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION SEARCH FRATERNITY AND SORORITY LIFE STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES OTHER CAMPUS-WIDE EVENTS Campus Traditions Class-Specific Traditions SERVICE AggieServe Volunteer Opportunities Fair Spotlight Service Events NEW STUDENTS Fish Camp Aggie Transition Camps Venture Camps StuAct Involvement Calendar Give Back MANAGE YOUR ORGANIZATION Annual Recognition Funding and Banking Create New Organization Event Planning Stuact Online Advisor Resources Training Opportunities Koldus For You LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAMS Maroon & White Leadership Fellows/Society CliftonStrengths International Opportunities Fraternity and Sorority Leadership Programs FOR FACULTY AND STAFF Service Learning Faculty Fellows Community Engagement & Impact Summit LEADERSHIP RESOURCES Leadership Library Presentation Requests AWARDS Margaret Rudder Community Service Award Buck Weirus Awards Organization/Advisor of the Year Awards RESOURCES Student Rules Sponsored & Authorized Events Calendar Organization Manual University Youth Programs Common Events Guide SOFC Instructional Guide Maroon Link Forms Student Organization Reporting FSL Excellence Committee ABOUT US Our Mission Areas Staff Bios Location and Office Hours Contact Us GET INVOLVED JOIN AN ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION SEARCH FRATERNITY AND SORORITY LIFE STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES OTHER CAMPUS-WIDE EVENTS Campus Traditions Class-Specific Traditions SERVICE AggieServe Volunteer Opportunities Fair Spotlight Service Events NEW STUDENTS Fish Camp Aggie Transition Camps Venture Camps StuAct Involvement Calendar Give Back MANAGE YOUR ORGANIZATION Annual Recognition Funding and Banking Create New Organization Event Planning Stuact Online Advisor Resources Training Opportunities Koldus For You LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAMS Maroon & White Leadership Fellows/Society CliftonStrengths International Opportunities Fraternity and Sorority Leadership Programs FOR FACULTY AND STAFF Service Learning Faculty Fellows Community Engagement & Impact Summit LEADERSHIP RESOURCES Leadership Library Presentation Requests AWARDS Margaret Rudder Community Service Award Buck Weirus Awards Organization/Advisor of the Year Awards RESOURCES Student Rules Sponsored & Authorized Events Calendar Organization Manual University Youth Programs Common Events Guide SOFC Instructional Guide Maroon Link Forms Student Organization Reporting FSL Excellence Committee ABOUT US Our Mission Areas Staff Bios Location and Office Hours Contact Us Join an OrganizationD0I7-T-A-M-U-D-U-M-M-Y2021-12-21T13:16:51-06:00 JOIN AN ORGANIZATION An important part of the college experience happens outside of the classroom, and Texas A&M has no shortage of involvement opportunities, whether they be focused on politics, religion, service, leadership, or academics. Look through our ever-growing list of organizations, check out fraternity and sorority opportunities, and even catch a glimpse of how you can be a “voice of the students” for the more politically-minded. ORGANIZATION SEARCH This is the hub for all official student organizations on campus. We aim to make finding the right organization as easy as possible. If you know the name of the organization, go ahead and dive right into the keyword search, but if you want to take a more general approach, check out the category options. BY LETTER BY CATEGORY BY KEYWORD FRATERNITY AND SORORITY LIFE With close to 60 inter/nationally affiliated or local Greek-letter organizations, and involving more than 10% of the undergraduate student population, Fraternity and Sorority Life is a growing, vibrant portion of Texas A&M’s student culture. Committed to supporting academics, developing leaders, and serving the community, there are many different opportunities for involvement within the Aggie Greek community at Texas A&M: Collegiate Panhellenic Council Greek students at Texas A&M embody the Aggie Spirit and exemplify the qualities of being a true Aggie, and our Panhellenic women definitely deliver. As one of only 21 recipients of the 2015 College Panhellenic Excellence Award and known for their academic excellence, campus involvement, leadership, and philanthropic achievement, our 13 Collegiate Panhellenic Council (CPC) chapters offer life-long friendships, networking connections, and valuable leadership skills to its members. This is an exceptionally exciting time to be an Aggie Greek, so visit CPC’s website to get the most up-to-date information about being involved in this unique experience. LEARN MORE Interfraternity Council Now boasting 19 chapters and a collective membership of over 1,400 Aggies, fraternities at Texas A&M have experienced unprecedented growth in both numbers and quality of members in the last 40 years. The Texas A&M Interfraternity Council (IFC) is the place to start for those looking to expand their Aggie network and experience brotherhood in a truly unique way. In fact, our fraternity members often find themselves with some of the most selective internships and job opportunities before and after graduation, in addition to raising hundreds of thousands of dollars for local and national philanthropies. We invite you to explore the opportunity that membership in an IFC chapter provides. LEARN MORE Multicultural Greek Council Joining a multicultural fraternity or sorority is unlike any other fraternal organization at Texas A&M. Our Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) organizations are based on Asian, South Asian, Latina/o & Multicultural principles and values. MGC is home to 20 culturally-based service-social fraternities and sororities at Texas A&M and offers support and services to under-represented students while promoting the Greek community to the campus and Bryan/College Station area. Check out MGC’s website for more information about how to get involved in this unique experience. LEARN MORE National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)has a rich history in Aggieland. Texas A&M’s historically black fraternities and sororities provide its members with an enriching college experience and numerous leadership opportunities. Consisting of seven nationally affiliated fraternity and sorority chapters, NPHC not only offers a tight-knit community that provides a unique opportunity for involvement, but it is also home to exciting campus events such as Stompfest. Visit their official website to find out how to get involved. LEARN MORE Order of Omega Have we mentioned that our fraternity and sorority members are high achieving in their academic and leadership endeavors? The Order of Omega is a national honor society designed specifically to recognize fraternity men and women who have achieved a high level of leadership through interfraternity activities. The Society is meant to encourage a continued standard of leadership for members and to inspire others to strive for similar leadership achievements. The Order of Omega brings together outstanding fraternity men and women, along with faculty and alumni who are connected to Texas A&M’s Greek community so that ideas and issues can be discussed and continuous improvements to the fraternity and sorority experience can be made. For more information how to get involved with Order of Omega-Kappa Rho chapter, please contact the office of Fraternity and Sorority Life at 979.862.5636 or aggiegreeks@tamu.edu. Fraternity & Sorority Life FAQ Choosing to be a part of the Greek Community at Texas A&M is a big decision, and we know you (and your parents) probably have a lot of questions. Check out our Frequently Asked Questions to decide if this experience is for you. VISIT FAQ Aggie Greek Enhancement Due FAQ’s Here you will find frequently asked questions about the Aggie Greek Enhancement Due. Click OFSL Enhancement Due FAQs STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES The student voice is a strong one, especially at A&M, with over 60,000 students. The best way to make sure that voice is heard loud and clear is to serve as a student representative. Whether it is representing the entire student body through Student Government, representing your class through Class Councils, representing the on-campus population through the Residential Housing Association, or representing the graduate population through Graduate and Professional Student Government Association, there are opportunities for the passionate, the political, and the service-minded. Student Government Association If you’ve ever dreamed of becoming president, or simply have an interest in politics, the Student Government Association (SGA) is a good place to start. SGA offers a large, productive community with a membership base of over 1400 students among the three branches of government, four commissions, and 15 programming committees that are home to many campus-wide programs and traditions. Check out SGA’s website to find opportunities on how to serve and represent your student body! LEARN MORE Class Councils Class Councils make traditions happen. As a representative body, including elected positions for each class, Class Councils serves and unites the campus community by upholding some of our longest standing traditions like Elephant Walk, Ring Dance, and Maroon Out, and by also raising money for the Class Gift that is given back to the university upon graduation. Class officers represent the needs and interests of their classmates and promote the continual improvement of the Aggie community. Find out how to serve your class by visiting the Class Councils website. LEARN MORE Graduate and Professional Student Government Association There are more than 10,000 graduate and professional students at Texas A&M. While the campus may be largely undergraduate, 10,000 is a number too big to remain voiceless. The Graduate and Professional Student Government Association functions as the student government for these graduate and professional students, serving as the voice of advocacy, community building, and research, in order to bring graduate concerns to the attention of Texas A&M administration and create the best experience for graduate Aggies. LEARN MORE Residential Housing Association The Residential Housing Association (RHA) empowers students who reside in campus housing to take an active role in advocating for positive change to the on-campus experience. RHA offers services, programming, and leadership opportunities for our on-campus population, and strives to make Texas A&M’s residents a respectful and united community. LEARN MORE 125 John J. Koldus Building | 1236 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1236 Phone: (979) 845-1133 | Fax: (979) 847-8854 Helpful Links Find An Organization Create New Organization Events Calendar Event Planning Programs Stay Connected Give Back Our Online Community Texas A&M University Home | Accessibility | Security & Privacy Policy Copyright ©2019 Student Activities, Texas A&M University. All Rights Reserved. Page load link Go to Top