Skip to main content Main Menu Dining & Housing Dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Student Experience Leadership & Campus Involvement Greek Life Campus Employment Keep Connected Outstanding Student Employee Sophomore Year Experience Health & Wellness Concerned About a Student Training & Requirements for New Students HIPAA Support & Resources Dean of Students Parent & Family Affairs About Us Mission, Vision and Values Vice President's Office Student Affairs Leadership Team Departments Divisional Priorities Outstanding Service Award We're here for you, Terps! Explore services, programs and campus experiences. The Division of Student Affairs has built an enriching and engaging campus experience and at its heart is you - every single Terp that has contributed to making the University of Maryland so special. You’ve Got This, and We’ve Got You! Dr. Patty Perillo Vice President for Student Affairs COVID-19 Information for UMD COVID-19 vaccinations will be required for all students, faculty and staff returning to campus this fall semester. Stay informed on the latest updates. View Full COVID-19 Information Student Life There are many choices to make after your acceptance to UMD and abundant options to get involved on campus. Learn about Dining, Residence Halls, leadership opportunities and resources available to you! Learn About the Student Experience at UMD Mental Health Terps, take care of yourselves and each other. Your mental and physical health is important! Visit Counseling Services Work On Campus There are so many ways to gain valuable work experience, meet people and have fun while working on campus. Visit Careers 4 Terps for a listing of on campus job opportunities. Visit the Careers 4 Terps Site Upcoming Events View All Events Latest UMD News News Residence Hall Essentials Get New Lease on Life at Campus ‘ReStore’ Students Can Donate Gently Used Appliances, Accessories to Benefit Other Terps View Article Residence Hall Essentials Get New Lease on Life at Campus ‘ReStore’ Five Ways to De-stress During Finals Week Try Cuddling Canines, Mindful Meditating or Picking Up a Paintbrush View Article Five Ways to De-stress During Finals Week Art Attack’s Back As Star-Studded Concert Series Resumes Saturday, Take Our Quiz on Past Headliners View Article Art Attack’s Back View All Articles Dining & Housing Student Experience Health & Wellness Support & Resources About Us Division of Student Affairs 2108 Mitchell Building, 7999 Regents Drive, College Park, MD 20742 301-314-8428 · StudentAffairs@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram UMD.edu Web Accessibility Privacy Notice Back to Top