Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Direct Deposit In order to have financial aid or other refunds deposited directly into a US checking account, students are required to complete direct deposit information. Failure to have current direct deposit information will delay refunds. Funds can be deposited into a checking account (not a savings account) at any United States based bank. Students need to enroll in 2 factor to be able to enroll in or change direct deposit information. For information about signing up for 2 factor, go to https://oit.ncsu.edu/it-security/2fa/duo/. Students should follow these steps to complete their direct deposit information: MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Student Accounts tile > View Direct Deposit > Enroll in Direct Deposit Log into the MyPack Portal with Unity ID and password. Select the Student Homepage. Select the ‘Student Accounts’ tile. From the left-hand navigation menu, select the ‘Enroll in Direct Deposit’ link to add new direct deposit information. (Note: If you already have a bank account listed for direct deposit, it will appear on this page.) Enter all of the information for your bank account including routing and account numbers, account type, and account holder name. Select whether or not you are using an International ACH Bank. Be sure to acknowledge the agreement at the bottom of the page by using the toggle button. Click the “Submit” button once complete. Enroll in Direct Deposit (PDF) Once you enter your information into the MyPack Portal, a zero dollar transaction, called a prenote, will be created to test the validity of the account information you have entered. Depending upon your bank, this prenote transaction may be reflected on your bank statement. No direct deposits of financial aid can occur during the prenote process, which takes 10 days. Instead, any refunds processed during this time will be in the form of a check. After the prenote period has passed, all processed refunds received by the Cashier’s Office will be directly deposited to your checking account. If the prenote fails, you will receive an email to the email address that you have listed in the MyPack Portal. Direct Deposit Timeline The Cashier’s Office sends out financial aid direct deposit transactions as soon as they are received, and the aid should be posted to a student’s checking account within two business days. Financial aid direct deposits are processed prior to the first day of class, which allows financial aid to be posted to the student’s checking account on the first day of class each semester/term. When funds are deposited, the Cashier’s Office provides notification on the Accounts Summary page of the MyPack Portal. Because financial aid can only be disbursed to enrolled students, the University is not allowed to disburse aid prior to the first day of class. Updating Direct Deposit Information After you have filled in your direct deposit information, it remains in effect as long as you are in school. If you change your checking account, update your information by following the above instructions for setting up your direct deposit account. If you close your checking account, follow the above instructions to get to the Direct Deposit page, but instead of clicking ‘Enroll in Direct Deposit,’ select the green “Revoke Direct Deposit’ button. You will be prompted to confirm whether to revoke the selected direct deposit account. Funds will not post to a closed checking account, and there will be a disbursement delay while the Cashier’s Office waits for the rejected deposit to return from the bank. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.