Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyCIPE Get Started Why Study Abroad? Choosing a Program Eligibility How Credit Works For Families Yale Travel Policy Search Programs Apply Application Deadlines Yale Summer Session Programs Abroad Credit for Non-Yale Summer Abroad Credit for Year or Term Abroad Paying for Study Abroad Yale Summer Session Programs Abroad Non-Yale Summer Abroad Year or Term Abroad Budgeting Prepare & Go Pre-Departure Requirements Health & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Cultural Adjustment & Engagement Accessing Yale's Resources Return Build Upon Your Experience Study Abroad Transcripts Go Abroad Again Connect with Other Yalies Connect Meet with a Study Abroad Adviser Connect with Other Yalies Subscribe to Our Newsletter Find Events Get to Know Our Staff Contact Us MyCIPE Enter your keywords Last updated: 11/17/2021 - 2:44pm Explore. Engage. Study Abroad Yale Study Abroad is here to guide you through the process of identifying the international experience that fits your goals and interests. Choose from hundreds of study abroad options, including Yale Summer Session Programs Abroad, Non-Yale Summer Abroad, and Year or Term Abroad. Choosing a Program Application Deadlines When and how to apply Considering Study Abroad opportunities during the summer or semester? Ensure you are aware of important dates in the application process. Learn More Search Programs Where will you go? Use our database to search from among hundreds of summer and semester study abroad programs. Learn More For Families Access study abroad resources Parents and guardians may start here for information on pertinent study abroad details and guidance on where to learn more. Learn More How Credit Works It is possible to earn Yale College credit or transfer general Yale graduation credit from study abroad. Discover the difference. Learn more Health and Safety Student health, safety, and security is of the utmost importance to us. Learn how you can take ownership of your well-being abroad. Learn more Online Presentations View recordings of our online information sessions at a time that works for you! Learn more Faculty Toolkit For Faculty of YSS Programs Abroad: The Toolkit offers one-stop support, including key resources and online forms. Log in here. Learn more The Ongoing COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Situation Sponsored outbound international travel for Yale College students is governed by the Yale College Travel Policy. Further restrictions may be imposed at any time if public health conditions require them. Proof of vaccination does not override Yale's Travel Policy, and note that it is the responsibility of the traveler to investigate and keep updated on country-specific requirements and/or restrictions that may hinder or make impossible travel to that location regardless of Yale's Travel Policy. Yale has provided Travel Guidelines for all faculty, staff, and students. Continuously updated COVID-19 information also can be found on Yale's COVID-19 website. Visit the Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates page for the latest information and resources relating to Yale Study Abroad. Study abroad advisers continue to be available to hold virtual appointments with students via Zoom. To schedule a meeting, please use our online appointment system. Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 Office: (203) 432-8684 Emergencies: (203) 785-5555 Facebook Instagram Contact | MyCIPE Main Navigation Get Started Apply Paying for Study Abroad Prepare & Go Return Connect MyCIPE Contact Study Abroad Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsCredit for Non-Yale Summer AbroadCredit for Year or Term AbroadYale Summer Session Programs Abroad (YSS)Yale in LondonInternational Summer Award (ISA)Yale Fellowship ProgramsWebsite Questions Message * Leave this field blank About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in