Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News The Flourish, May 2022 Main content start Supporting the well-being of all students at Stanford May is National Mental Health Awareness Month– a time for checking in with ourselves and others and finding resources to support us during this time. Although our individual struggles are unique, together we can learn to build a community of care where we feel comfortable leaning on the support systems available to us. This edition starts off by sharing general steps to take to seek Counseling and Psychological Services. We then hone in on the importance of self and community care and share tips for building our own basecamp. We encourage you to take time to learn about how to take care of your mental health and explore the relationship between well-being and mental illness, while discovering mental health resources to better support you. Mental Health Resources at Stanford We know that you will experience new and unexpected challenges while on-campus. Here you'll find a wealth of mental health resources. Learn More In Focus Accessing Mental Health Support Through CAPS - Where to start? So, you begin to notice changes in your mood and behavior but are unsure of what this means, who to reach out to, and where to even go for support. We understand that it can be overwhelming to reach out to support, especially if it's your first time managing a mental health condition or interacting with a health care system. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is committed to addressing any obstacles that may keep you from getting the support you need. Learn more on how to access mental health support through CAPS. Learn More Building Your Basecamp — A metaphor for self and community care We are hearing terms like wellness, well-being and self-care a lot lately, but what does it look like to put these things into practice? We recognize that it can be tough to track all facets of these broad terms…are we talking about avocado face masks and cucumber eye masks or deep spiritual healing (the answer to that inquiry is ‘yes’, btw)? Thankfully, there is a metaphor that can help you hold all that might go into the large bucket we can call mammalian self-care; the metaphor being that of a basecamp. Learn more to discover what mammalian self-care is and how you can begin building your own basecamp. Learn More Tip of the Month How to Support a Friend During Tough Times The last few years have presented us with unexpected challenges like no other time before. We have all been through tremendous change and it'll take some time for us to feel a sense of stability. This is why we need to find support for ourselves as well as be there for our peers and build out the crucial support system that is community care. Here are some tips on how we can support each other through hard times. Learn More In the Spotlight Well-Being and Mental Illness Think about the word wellness. What does it feel like for you to be well? What emotions come up? What is it like in your body? What are the sights, smells, sounds, tastes, and sensations that you associate with feeling healthy? Discover the relationship between wellness, well-being, and mental illness and how you can begin taking charge of your mental health today! Learn More Sleep Corner All Nighters: Helpful or Harmful? It’s the day before your 9am final. You look at the clock and notice it is already 9pm, and you still need to finish your final project and study the remaining exam topics for that class. With 12 hours to go, you decide to make a cup of coffee, head to your work area, and say to yourself “It’s going to be a long night.” Does this scenario sound familiar to you? If you have been in this situation before, chances are you either contemplated or actually did pull an all-nighter. Learn more to discover if all-nighters are helpful or harmful. Learn More What’s flourishing this month? Upcoming events Monday, May 23rd from 11:30am - 12:20pm, Restorative Yoga with Stanford Recreation and Wellness: This standalone class is being offered for free in honor of Mental Health Awareness Month. The class centers deep relaxation and restoration through gentle yoga postures held for 3 to 8 minutes at a time, helping to soothe the nervous system, correct poor posture, and relieve tension of deeper muscles that might not be targeted in a more active yoga class. (Event to take place at Arrillaga Recreation Center, Milas Studio.) For registration, please visit here. Monday, May 23rd from 2pm-3:00pm, Mindful Metaverse: Digital Well-Being in Social and Spatialized Contexts: This webinar given by Caitlin Krause, a lecturer in digital wellbeing, XR experience designer, and author of Designing Wonder, explores how to cultivate healthy digital experiences in the context of the metaverse. Krause will take a deeper look at how intentional digital choices can create flourishing without having to disregard all forms of technology. For registration, please visit here. Tuesday, May 24th from 10:30am to 2:30pm, Wellness Fair: This event offered by Stanford BeWell is intended to celebrate wellness and help attendees explore new wellness opportunities and resources. The Wellness Fair will feature fun activities such as therapy dogs, a farmer’s market, giveaways, a photobooth, and more! (Event to take place in Koret Plaza.) For more information, please visit the Wellness Fair website. Free Cardinal Pass Classes from Stanford Recreation and Wellness for the Month of May: Stanford Recreation and Wellness is offering free classes in Vinyasa Yoga, Cardio Core, HIIT30, and Gentle Yoga for the month of May in honor of Mental Health Awareness Month. For class times and registration information, please visit here. The Flourish Return to the main page Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top