Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Parent and Family Resources The Division of Student Life partners with the parents and family members of current students to provide support during the student's career at Georgia Tech. You can find basic information on how the Division partners with students on this page, however we would also encourage you to review information on the Georgia Tech Parent & Family Programs web site for more engagement opportunities. Hospitalizations and Emergencies In the case of a student hospitalization or emergency, a parent or designated emergency contact will be contacted by the Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students. During this phone call information might be limited, however the staff member will provide a general account of the incident, the hospital where the student was taken, and the information for the hospital (phone number, address, web site). Our staff will remain in contact with you to gather details and coordinate Institute resources as necessary. Emergency Contact Information Each student is required to register emergency contact information with the Institute through the web portal "BuzzPort." As parents and family members you are unable to access or update this information. Therefore, we ask that you work with your student to assure that the emergency contact information listed is accurate. Contacting the Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students The Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students should be contacted when your student does not sound like themselves, this can include, but is not limited to times of extreme stress, academic trouble, issues within a family affecting a student in their academic endeavors, or in the case of health problems or an incident which would impede their success at Tech. The Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students can be contacted Monday - Friday, 8:00- 5:00 pm at (404) 894-2564. Outside of these hours, contact the Georgia Tech Police Department at (404) 894-2500. When contacting the Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students keep in mind that the Office does comply with FERPA regulations to protect student privacy. Parental Notification Policy for Alcohol and Other Drugs Parents/guardians of students under the age of twenty-one may be notified when a student is found responsible for violating the Georgia Tech Student Policy on Alcohol and Other Drugs when any of the following occur: Students endanger themselves or other students while under the influence of alcohol or other substances. Specific instances include DUI, fighting, alcohol poisoning, and hospitalization. When the Dean of Students determines that any future violations of the Institute's policy will most likely result in suspension from Georgia Tech. When a hearing officer determines that any future violations of the Institute's policy will likely result in removal from housing. Stay Connected GT Account The Georgia Tech Parent & Family Programs office maintains contact information for parents and family members who register for a Stay Connected GT Account. A full description of the Stay Connected program is available on the program's web site, however entering information into our Stay Connected portal has many benefits, including supplemental emergency contact information. For more information on becoming involved in the Georgia Tech community, visit the Georgia Tech Parent & Family Programs web site. Parent Handbook: Alcohol A parent handbook for talking with college students about alcohol. Adapted with permission from the Prevention Research Center at Pennsylvania State University. Download Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login