Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Media Main navigation Home About Us Our Mission Staff Media Organizations Resources Board of Student Publications Contact Us GT: Utility Links Center for Student Engagement Open Search Search Search Home Welcome to Student Media! Our staff are a part Center for Student Engagement at Georgia Tech. Student Engagement empowers and supports registered student organizations to catalyze belonging and create an engaging campus community. The Center has a strong history of developing and working closely with Georgia Tech’s outstanding student leaders. The staff that make-up the Center for Student Engagement are still here to provide service and support. Currently the Center for Student Engagement staff are working in rotation remotely and on-campus to ensure appropriate physical distancing as guided by Covid-19 recommendations. The Center for Student Engagement remains available to advise and support student organizations’ needs and the general function of the Institute. Georgia Tech remains open with modified operations, you can easily connect with us at engage@gatech.edu and expect a response within 24 hours. Our regular office hours 8:00AM – 5:00PM, Monday-Friday. For access to specific staff, we request that students make an appointment. The Center for Student Engagement encourages all Registered Student Organization (RSO) leaders to consider making all possible meetings virtual. For in-person events that are determined to be held, RSO leaders can find a full list of recommendations and requirements here. If ideas or support are needed for how to manage a student organization virtually or in a modified format, please reach out at the contacts provided or contact any of the Center for Student Engagement staff directly. We realize that many students may need even greater support this term; If so, you can reach out virtually with the following Student Life resources: request assistance, referral form, or student emergency fund. Student Publications Editor Applications are now available! Always want to be an editor, well now is your chance to have your voice be heard! 2022-2023 Editor Applications Technique The South’s Liveliest College Newspaper Technique WREK 91.1 FM WREK is the entirely student managed, operated and engineered radio station of Georgia Tech. We broadcast 24/7 on 91.1 FM with 100,000 Watts of quality, diverse programming. WREK North Avenue Review An open forum publication that provides Tech students with the chance to speak their minds about almost any topic. NAR Erato Art & Literary Magazine Erato The Blue Print Georgia Tech’s National Award Winning Yearbook The Blue Print T-Book Tech’s Traditions and History Handbook for New Students T-Book Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN