Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News The Flourish, March 2022 Main content start Supporting the well-being of all students at Stanford March is National Sleep Awareness Month! This month, we reflect on our sleep habits by defining what it means to get good sleep and how we can build our “sleep hygiene”. How does nutrition and exercise impact our sleep? How can we improve our sleep through movement? How does sleep impact our mental health and well-being? If you’ve been feeling sluggish, find some answers in the month's edition. Discover ways to improve the quantity and quality of sleep you get and find the right sleep tips and resources for you. Remember, Zzzs get degrees! Downloadable PDF The Flourish, March 2022 The goal of this communication tool is to support all Stanford students and their well-being. Access PDF of the March Newsletter Let’s explore these areas together. Note: To access an HTML version of this graphic, you may do so here. In Focus Are you getting good sleep? Ahhhh, a good night's sleep can feel life-giving, why must it so often elude us?! Sleep’s cultural caché has increased in the last decade as a too-fast, too-stimulating, too-much world has shown us what it is like to be chronically unrested. Ok, so what goes into “healthy” or “good” sleep? Maybe you’ve heard about an optimal number of hours to sleep each night, but there are many more variables that go into healthy sleep than solely accumulated eyes-closed time. Sleep hygiene, you heard of it? No, it’s not washing your hands for 20 seconds before you go to bed (that’s the COVID talking). Sleep hygiene is really a pattern of sleep behaviors that can vary quite significantly between individuals. Yes, the number of hours you spend asleep is an important, and easy to measure, variable of sleep hygiene. But, there’s more! The time window in which you fall asleep, the window in which you wake up, and the consistency of these sleep/wake windows also has a huge impact on how rested you feel throughout the day. You guessed correctly — more consistency in our sleep/wake times helps us feel rested because our bodies operate on a diurnal rhythm (we’re “awake-during-the-day” animals) that is sensitive to light and good ol’ soothing darkness. The amount of hours varies person to person, and changes throughout our lives. You probably don’t need as much sleep as your annoying nephew, but likely you need more than your super-sweet grandma. The range you’ll see most often in early adulthood is 7-9 hours per night, but frankly that’s a huge range. Someone whose body and brain need 9 hours would feel absolutely awful if they were consistently getting 7 hours. Those two hours of missed sleep would add up each night until a beastly “sleep debt” was accrued. Sleep debt is the amount of hours our brain and body are behind on their restorative sleep needs. Ironically, complex cognitive daily demands increase our sleep needs, but often are the very things keeping us awake at night. What about REM, deep sleep, snoring, sleep apnea, and everything else I’ve heard about sleep?! Whoaaaa tigerrrrrrr, let’s start with exploring our needed sleep hours, sleep/wake windows, and understand our current sleep debt. Oh yeah, obviously, all-nighters are like super not great for you. Why you ask? We’ll explain more in future editions of The Flourish, so stay tuned. Papa Pine, also known as Colin Campbell, ‘11, Well-Being at Stanford Sleep to Be Well Feel like you are dragging? Sleep may be your answer! Sleep is the original mood booster. We may feel this truth most acutely when we finally catch up on our sleep debt, feeling a sense of relief, lightness, and energy. Our mood is strongly predicted by the quality of sleep we get in the most recent night, but also the quality of our sleep over the previous few weeks. When we accrue sleep debt, or we just have a crummy night of sleep, we notice that we’re less patient, our cognitive processing isn’t quite what we’d expect, and maybe even our social skills have fallen off a bit. Our brains and bodies are processing so much input each day, and sleep is where we clear out the gunk that inevitably accumulates from all this processing. Without quality gunk-clearing time we can feel clogged up, unable to access resilient skills that are usually available to us. We may become less aware of our emotional states, or even become subject to an emotional rollercoaster in which we’ve lost all hopes of managing the ride. When managing a mental illness, prioritizing sleep is a critical strategy for softening symptoms. While sleep alone is not a treatment for mental illness, it is a crucial part of any treatment plan as it allows us to tap into whatever mental capacity is available to us on a given day. If you’re struggling with mental illness a therapist can often provide the support you need, often in the form of helping you build skills that will move you towards quality sleep on a regular basis. Maybe you’re just having a couple of bad days, low quality sleep could be the major factor at play. Don’t fret — we all accumulate sleep debt from time to time, and can recover it by prioritizing restorative practices throughout our days, and most importantly, making enough time for sleep On Campus Resource Stanford Counseling and Psychological Services Mental Health Resources at Stanford Additional Resources Stress Affecting Your Sleep? #ThoughtfulThursdays social media posting How to Recharge: Tips from a Stanford Wellness Coach Stanford Report In the Spotlight What we eat or drink can affect our sleep, but to varying degrees. Most substances affect our sleep in different ways based on our unique physiologies, and other factors, sometimes with the specific effects changing over the course of our lives. You may notice that as you get older, caffeinated drinks after a certain time (say 3pm) of day can affect your ability to fall or stay asleep. Alcohol’s effects on sleep are well-studied, with some of the most common effects found to be a shortening of your overall sleep duration, reduced sleep quality, and exacerbation of certain sleep disorders. Meanwhile, understanding the effects of certain foods can be helpful for supporting conditions such as indigestion, GERD, sleep disorders, eating disorders, which may not apply to everyone. Common food triggers may include chocolate, spicy food, gas-producing foods, and others that can lead to indigestion. You may have heard about the impact of high carbohydrate, high fat, and processed foods on sleep, but beware of mistaking correlation for causation. Many mediating factors, shift-work, food deserts/swamps, stress, can also be contributing to poorer sleep quality. Extrapolating these findings to university life may not account for varying schedules, accessibility, and priorities. What can I do if I suspect a food and sleep connection? Explore: Using a food journal, keep track of potential foods, substances, and habits that may be tied to sleep. Putting yourself under a microscope can be vulnerable, so take care to try on a researcher’s/observer mindset, rather than a critical/judgmental one. Challenge Assumptions: Sometimes we feel like we need to do something to stay awake, to feel comfortable socializing, to get ahead, etc. Is it necessarily true and is there another option available to you? Harm-Reduction: Nutrition isn’t all or nothing. When we change one thing, the domino effect can change other things in unexpected ways. Consider a skillful next-step. For example, if your drinking is affecting sleep quality, consider pacing the drinking, reducing the overall amount, or substituting drinking with other habits/routines. On-Campus Resources Well-Being at Stanford Coaching Additional Resources The Best and Worst Foods to Eat Before Bed Headspace Alcohol and Sleep Sleep Foundation Doom-your-sleep scrolling We all have been there! Turn off the lights, get in bed, check your phone, and next thing two hours have passed you by. This non-restorative behavior is called “doomscrolling.” Doomscrolling is the act of continuously scrolling through social media or surfing the web to get bombarded by bad news; it has trapped many of us in a “vicious cycle of negativity”, especially during the pandemic. Studies have shown that doomscrolling can reinforce negative thoughts and a negative mindset. As a result, this behavior has perpetuated fear, stress, and anxiety, all off which negatively impact our mental health. However, there are ways that can prevent you from falling into this trap. (1) Set a timer to limit how much time you are scrolling on your phone. By limiting a behavior to a specific time or place and setting boundaries for yourself, you are channeling your behavior in a more appropriate or specific time period that is more ideal. (2) Stay cognizant and use mindfulness. Observe and notice the sensations in your body and remind yourself what you are specifically looking for. By checking in with yourself and asking whether you have found what you needed, your body motivates you to put on the brakes to “doomscrolling.” (3) Learn to disconnect yourself from your screen by exercising and breathing. When you exercise and deeply breathe, you give your mind a rest while exercising your muscle, which slows your intake of content and allows you to sleep better. Imagine how refreshed you’ll feel in the morning with that extra time with Zzzzzs! Additional Resources • How Electronics Affect Sleep Sleep Foundation • Apple's "Night Shift" Mode: How Smartphones Disrupt Sleep Scientific American • Your 'Doomscrolling' Breeds Anxiety. Here's How To Stop The Cycle NPR KQED • Everything You Need to Know About Doomscrolling and How to Avoid It Cleveland Clinic Insomnia who? Sleep Corner Imagine this typical scenario: You have to take an important exam tomorrow. You spent the past couple of days studying to prepare for this defining test and intend to get a good night's rest. You brush your teeth, wash your face, throw on your comfiest pajamas. Your head hits the pillow, and… you are wide awake. This is the worst thing that could happen. You take some deep breaths and try to get more comfortable. Your body won't surrender. You're running out of time. Surprisingly - moving your body could help in this situation! Research shows low-impact exercise (such as yoga, tai chi, and gentle stretching) combined with breathwork can help slow the heart rate down, signaling the body that it's time to sleep. Take it a step further. To proactively secure the likelihood of sleeping well, carve out some time in your schedule to exercise during the daytime. At least 30 minutes of aerobic and/or anaerobic exercise can improve your sleep quality that same night. What is aerobic and anaerobic exercise? Aerobic means "with oxygen," and anaerobic means "without oxygen." Aerobic exercise is your typical cardio workouts such as swimming, cycling, and walking. It is the breath that controls the amount of oxygen that makes it to the muscles. Anaerobic exercise is a bit more intense and involves quick bursts of energy at maximum effort for a short period, usually repeated with a 10-15 second break in between. High-intensity interval training, sprints, and strength training are typical examples of anaerobic exercise. Therefore, you do not need to overly exert yourself to actively improve the quality of your sleep. A two-mile walk will do the trick, and any more activity will only help. Suppose you do have an important exam tomorrow. In that case, you should probably take a break to get your heart rate up anyways. You will come back to your studies with a different perspective, feeling refreshed and more energized in the moment. Then, you will get the rest of your life when the sun goes down (or up, who's judging?). Sleep well! Additional Resources • Exercise for Better Sleep John Hopkins Medicine • Exercise and Sleep Sleep Foundation • 10 Stretches to Try Before Bed Medical News Today • Aerobic Exercise Cleveland Clinic • What is Anaerobic Exercise? JumpStart by WebMD The Flourish Return to the main page Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top