Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Main content start Content Warning The following section contains content of the past and current existence and examples of white supremacist/anti-immigrant rhetoric and prejudice across different racial and ethnic groups. This content may be sensitive to those of a minority racial and/or ethnic background, as well as those who align with an immigrant identity. Page Contents Please use the following links to access relevant content. Definitions What is Happening? Why is this Happening? What Can I Do? Definitions Xenophobia: fear of strangers, specifically intersecting with racism and white supremacy, manifesting in hatred and discrimination of immigrants or those perceived to be outside the norm of American whiteness. What is happening? With the emergence of the global pandemic of novel coronavirus (COVID-19), you may have seen on the news, witnessed, or personally experienced, increasing reports of anti-immigrant and xenophobic hate crimes. Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) have been targeted, harassed, and blamed for COVID-19. Latinx communities continue to face constant threat and increased reports of hate crimes in relation to ongoing U.S. Border Policy. Anti-immigrant sentiment is institutionalized in racist and anti-immigrant policies. In distributing government stimulus checks during COVID-19, checks were withheld from Americans who did not hold a social security number despite having paid taxes for years. In fact, immigrants and refugees, particularly those without documentation, are targeted for labor exploitation and harassment. Additionally, undocumented immigrants live in fear of deportation by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). If detained by ICE, undocumented immigrants are transported to detention centers, where they are forced to live in inhumane conditions and are vulnerable to abuse from ICE officers everyday. Recipients of DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) sometimes called “Dreamers”, who arrived to the country at a young age and under DACA are protected from deportation and allowed to obtain work permits, continually fear being deported despite growing up in U.S. society and contributing to U.S. culture and economy. These issues permeate Stanford culture, policies, and community members’ lives. From hate crimes targeting undocumented immigrants to the hate crimes faced by Asian and Asian Americans in the face of COVID-fueled xenophobia, the Stanford campus is not immune anti-immigrant discrimination. Why is this happening? While the worsening of the COVID-19 crisis has sparked a disturbing increase of anti-immigration and xenophobic sentiment, particularly for Asians, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, xenophobia has historically manifested in hate towards all groups deemed to be different. As different waves of colonization conquered the world, constructs of race and racial superiority gained widespread popularity to rationalize the domination, enslavement, and subjugation of other peoples while keeping wealth and power in the hands of a few. Thus, ideas and values of white supremacy became synonymous with definitions of American culture despite, and in fact in direct erasure of, Native Americans who were the original stewards of the land named the United States of America, the enslaved Africans brought to the U.S., and the varied waves of migrants from all parts of Europe. In order to protect the power and wealth of the ruling, white class, ideas of who belongs and who is “other” continue to evolve and be enforced. This ongoing conflation of whiteness and Americanness can be traced through “scientific” modes of thought, legislation, and social movements. Eugenics, the faux science of racial hierarchy, was used to show racial inferiority of anyone not descended from Christian, Anglo-Saxon stock. This “scientific” thought underlined the mistreatment and abuse of anyone deemed as different, from those with disabilities to immigrants. From the early 1800’s the US government’s policies to assimilate Native populations, asserting that the only way that Native Americans could exist within U.S. society was to erase Native culture entirely and replace it with “American” values to the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 which was the first U.S. law to bar immigration solely based on race to the 1921 Emergency Quota Act and the Immigration Act of 1924 which restricted immigration of people from Africa and Eastern and Southern Europe, policies and political rhetoric has continually held up beliefs about who is valued as a part of American society and who does not belong. Social movements and cultural practices have upheld these notions of white supremacy, “Americanness”, and the “Other” as well. From the discrimination and prejudice faced by Irish, Jewish, and Eastern Europeans to Orientalism’s othering and rejecting of Middle Easterners and Muslims to the scapegoating of immigrants, the financial and social structures of the United States continued to bar undesirable and “unAmerican”, non-White peoples from equality, equity, and opportunity. These discriminatory ideas and oppressive laws and policies persist today. Common language used to describe immigrants as “aliens” and notions of immigrants “stealing American jobs” perpetuates these white supremacist thoughts. Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) have been portrayed as the “perpetual foreigner”, outsiders who don’t belong and have other loyalties as evident in the Japanese Internment camps and the recent wave of anti-Asian hate and sinophobia. Anti-Immigrant sentiment exponentially jumped after events like 9/11 and the war in Afghanistan. In recent attempts to end DACA and justify separating families at the US Border, immigrants have largely been vilified and face increased hate crimes and are told “don’t come” to the United States. What can I do? Honor Intersectionality Being in solidarity with a community against oppression requires both an intersectional lens and ongoing praxis. We know from the main anti-hate landing page that oppressions intersect. To fight one type of oppression would be incomplete without continuing to learn about and fight the other interlocking oppressions that target and magnify the harm experienced by individuals and communities. For example, to fight for immigrant rights would also include fighting for racial justice since those who are most impacted by oppressive systems are typically folx of color. Second, to fight against these systems takes continued learning and continued self-care; social justice work necessitates humility, ongoing education, and self-preservation. Taking care of ourselves ensures that we can continually and sustainably strive for liberation. Educate yourself Explore local and national organizations that work in immigrant and refugee advocacy. Follow immigration activists and advocates on social media. Continue to learn about how xenophobia has pervaded U.S. policy and society and how it manifests now. Vote One of our most powerful tools is our ability to change the systems that impact immigration policy, treatment of immigrants, and protections for migrants. Vote in your local, state, and federal elections and make sure to consider the suggestions of organizations that work tirelessly on behalf of immigrants when you do. Show your support Immigrant and citizenship status may not be visible or disclosed, especially in spaces and groups for fear of prejudice and hatred. Being vocal about your support for immigrants, refugees, and DACA recipients alike can signal to folks that you support them in their experiences. Some ways to outwardly show support are: Get involved with reputable organizations that do advocacy work. Use the 4 step speak up method to respond when you hear anti-immigrant sentiments Make sure your support is centering immigrant and refugee voices. Check the source of the things you are retweeting, or and ask yourself before proposing a solution, “Is this what immigrants, DREAMers, and refugees are saying they want and need?” Check out the United We Dream Toolkits to explore a number of ways to be an ally. Take Care If you, yourself are an immigrant, refugee, DACA recipient or identify with an undocumented status, it is important to practice self-care, recognize the specific factors affecting mental health of immigrants, and prioritize your mental well-being. The National Latinx Psychological Association created this mental health guide for DACA recipients and undocumented immigrants, but it has many translatable mental health check in steps that anyone can utilize. As an immigrant, it is not your duty or your responsibility to teach others, or take on every advocacy project related to immigrant rights. You may also consider some on-campus resources available to you: If you are a DACA recipient, the Dean of Students Office is available to support a variety of needs including financial aid. Contact the Dean of Students at deanofstudents@stanford.edu Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is a confidential space to work with a clinician who can help you prioritize your mental health and well being. If you hold a student visa and you need help with immigration status, The Bechtel International Center offers free support and can provide legal advice. The Asian American Activities Center, El Centro Chicano y Latino, and The Markaz: Resource Center, among other community centers also provide resources and support to students with a wide variety of experiences and backgrounds. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top