Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Center Home Facilities Academy of Medicine Reservable Spaces Exhibition Hall Dining & Retail Maps Reservable Spaces Parking and Directions The Pavilion Student Center Reservable Spaces Student Center Map West Village Dining Maps Reservable Spaces Parking and Directions Activities SCPC Meet the SCPC Board Paper and Clay Tech Rec Event Services Plan an Event Reservable Spaces Academy of Medicine Exhibition Hall Student Center West Village Rates Academy of Medicine Exhibition Hall Student Center West Village Catering Advertise With Us Postal Services Our Team Meet Professional Team Professional Opportunities Student Opportunities Campus Jobs Post a Job Campus Center Reserve a Room Tickets Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Georgia Tech Post Office The Georgia Tech Post Office is here for all of your postal needs. You can send packages, buy mail supplies, various denominations of postage stamps and much more. Students living on campus can find their virtual mailbox at the Post Office, as well as the package pick-up window for picking up parcels. The Georgia Tech Post Office provides mail and parcel pick-up services for students receiving packages from the United States Postal Service (USPS), United Parcel Service (UPS), Federal Express, Airborne and DHL. Outgoing shipping services are provided by the United States Postal Service (USPS) only. For customer services inquiries, please contact our team at postofficeask@po.gatech.edu. Student Mail Department Mail Retail Departmental Delivery Service Temporarily Reduced Due to staffing limitations in the Postal Services team, delivery to campus departments will be reduced effective Monday, December 13. From then until further notice, most campus departments will receive one delivery/pickup each day instead of two. The few departments who will continue to receive a morning and afternoon delivery/pickup have been contacted by the Postal Services team. As a result of this change, any departmental mail received by Postal Services after the department's daily delivery will be processed and delivered the following business day at the scheduled delivery time. Departments have the option to retrieve mail or deliver outgoing mail directly to the 711 Mail Processing Center (MPC), located at 711 Marietta Street. Retrievals and drop-offs at the MPC should be made before 4:45 p.m., Monday through Friday. We appreciate your patience and understanding with this temporary disruption. Now Open in the Exhibition Hall The Post Office has moved to the new Exhibition Hall (located across from ISYE Main at 460 Fourth Street NW), our home for the next two years while the Student Center undergoes renovations. Please note that students’ mailing addresses have not changed in any way as a result of this move. For any additional questions regarding the move or operations in the new space, contact the Postal Services Team at 404.894.4560 or by email at postofficeask@po.gatech.edu. Hours Mon./Wed./Fri.| 8:30 a.m. – 5 p.m. Tue./Thu. | 8:30 a.m. – 6* p.m. Sat.*| 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. Sun. | Closed *Package Pick-Up Only Saturdays and after 5 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursdays* Contact Us Campus Mail Processing (404) 385-4174 711 Marietta St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30332-0450 Student Mail Processing (404) 894-4560 Exhibition Hall, 2nd Floor 460 4th St. NW, Atlanta GA 30332-0450 Email: postofficeask@po.gatech.edu To See A Full List of Our Retail Shipping Items Click Here Student Mail About Student Mail Service Students who live on campus or rent a mailing address can find details about our services and information about how to find your address below. STUDENT ADDRESSES YOUR OFFICIAL NAME 3##### Georgia Tech Station 350 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA 30332 What goes in the ##### spaces? For on campus residents and those who rent a mailbox, address information is available on BuzzPort. From the "Registration and Student Services" section, click: Registration - OSCAR Student Services & Financial Aid Student Records *New GT Post Office The last five digits are your mail folder number that replaces the ##### above. Important notes about student addresses: For incoming students, mailbox numbers will be assigned in July to any on campus resident who has registered for classes. After July, mailbox number information will appear within 48 hours of registering for classes. The address above will remain valid while the Post Office is in its temporary location in the Exhibition Hall. Please note that you are responsible for sharing your address with friends and family. Sharing your mail address with another student is prohibited. STUDENT MAIL PICK-UP Students will receive an email notifying them that a package/lettermail is ready for pick up and will direct them to pick up their package on the 2nd floor of the Exhibition Hall. Please limit the number and size of packages you send through the Post Office. While in our temporary space and practicing physical distancing, we cannot accommodate large items like futons or bicycles in our package storage. Students should also remember to bring their BuzzCard or any state issued ID when picking up a package To further alleviate congestion, the Postal Services Team asks that students wait until they have received an email telling them mail has arrived before visiting the Post Office. This will be particularly important in minimizing crowded lines on our spaces. Students should follow all signage in the Exhibition Hall related to traffic flow and distancing measures. Be sure to check your mail regularly! Items left longer than 30 days may be returned as unclaimed. Perishable items must be picked up within 24 hours or they will be discarded. RENTING A CAMPUS MAILING ADDRESS If you are moving off-campus, including into Greek Housing, your mailing address will become inactive. If you would like to keep a mailbox in the Post Office, you must complete the Campus Mailing Address Rental Form. The annual fee is only $30 and covers fall term through summer term. Reservations are on a first come, first served basis, and assignments are not guaranteed to stay the same year after year. Campus Mailing Address Rental Form If you are a Student Organization that needs a mailing address for your organization you must complete the Student Organization mail folder rental form. The annual fee is only $20 and covers fall term through summer term. Reservations are on a first come, first served basis, and assignments are not guaranteed to stay the same year after year. Student Organization Mail Folder Rental Form MAIL FORWARDING If you are moving off-campus, including into Greek Housing, your mailing address will become inactive. Students who graduate or move off-campus can have their mail forwarded for one semester after graduation. However, mail cannot be forwarded internationally. Magazines and other publishings can not be forwarded. Mailing Forwarding Instructions Where do you find your campus address? How do others send you mail and packages? When do you pick up your packages? Find answers to many of your questions about Georgia Tech's Postal Services when you watch our brief how-to video above. Changes to Student Mail Service For those of you living on campus this year, you'll have a mailing address with the Georgia Tech Post Office where you can manage all of your letter and package needs. Here's what you'll need to know about our mail services: STUDENT MAIL ADDRESSES HAVE NOT CHANGED Despite the change in pick-up location, students' address has not changed - if you are a campus resident or a student who rents a mailing address, your address is still 350 Ferst Drive. Be sure to follow the addressing instructions below in the Student Mail section. ABOUT LARGE PACKAGES Please limit the number and size of packages you send through the Post Office. While we are temporarily housed in the Exhibition Hall, we ask that you do not ship large items like futons, bicycles, or refrigerators. We cannot accommodate such large items in our space. Additionally, during peak periods some large packages will be available for pick-up at the 711 Mail Processing Center instead of the Exhibition Hall. Students should read their package pickup notification email carefully to find out where their packages should be picked up. Please also keep in mind that a student is responsible for transporting their large shipments back to their residence halls. HIGH DENSITY MAIL The Student Center's renovation provides an opportunity to be more space efficient in our mail processes. Both the Post Office's temporary space in the Exhibiton Hall and its permanent home in the renovated Student Center will have a High Density Mail system (HDM), which utilizes compressible shelves of folders in lieu of individual boxes. You will not have an individual box, but a mailing address that corresponds to an individual folder containing your mail. At least now you won't have to remember a combination anymore! More about High Density Mail WHAT ABOUT THE OLD MAILBOXES? The transition to High Density Mail means retiring the old mailboxes from the 1st floor of the Student Center; details on the future and possible purchase of those mailboxes will be released when available. Sending Mail to Your Student Your student is responsible for letting you know their address. Please be sure that mail is addressed with the correct mailbox number and valid zip code. Always use your student’s full name, as listed with the registrar. Use of another name may prevent mail from reaching your student. For new students who have not yet been assigned a mailbox: please use the phrase "Incoming New Student" in place of a mailbox number. Special occasion and holiday cards are prime targets for theft. To minimize the threat to your student’s parcels please DO NOT SEND CASH through the mail. The Georgia Tech Post Office recommends using a trackable method of mailing such as delivery confirmation or priority mailing. When sending packages, tracking will indicate when a package has arrived at the Post Office, not when your student has received it. The Georgia Tech Post Office receives packages from the United States Postal Service, United Parcel Service, Federal Express, Airborne, and DHL. There is no package delivery to the residence halls. Students will be notified they have a package via email. After a week, a second notification will be sent. A week after the second notification, the package will be returned to sender. FAQs Q. How do I get a mailbox? A. Students living in on-campus housing will automatically be assigned a mailbox number and will retain that number as long as they live in campus housing. If you move off campus and want to rent a mailbox, please notify the Post Office immediately. Q. Can I still get a mailbox even if I don't live on campus? A. All students (excluding Graduate Living Center and 10th and Home residents) may request a mailbox and pay a $30.00 non-refundable annual fee. Availability of boxes are limited so applications are accepted on a first come, first serve basis. Please stop by the Georgia Tech Post Office on the 2nd floor of the Exhibition Hall or contact us at 404-894-4560 for more information. Q. How often should I check my box for mail? A. We recommend at least once to twice a week. We perform mailbox housekeeping every 30 to 45 days. Checking your box on a regular basis ensures that your mail will not be returned as unclaimed. Department Mail Inter-Campus Mail Use inter-campus mail envelopes whenever possible, but be sure to cross out all previous names and information. Inter-campus mail must be separated from USPS Mail by securing it with a rubber band. USPS outgoing mail must be accompanied by a Department Mailing Form. Failure to complete it properly can result in mail being returned. Department Mailing Form Always include the recipient's full name, department name and mail code. Click below for the most current mail code listing. Departmental Mail Codes Mail is delivered and collected twice daily in most departments. All mail must be ready for pick-up when the carrier arrives at your department. The Georgia Tech Post Office is a government contract station, therefore all mail sent via inter-campus mail must be official Georgia Tech Correspondence. Personal mail is not permitted in the campus mail system. Other Mail Guidelines If you have a large mailing, which requires a special pick-up, you must make arrangements in advance by calling the Georgia Tech Post Office at (404) 385.4174. When a faculty or staff member leaves Georgia Tech, or transfers to another department, it is the responsibility of the department to forward the individual's mail. Individual members of a department needing to modify their mail code information should contact their Human Resources associate or HR Business Partner. Departments looking to change mail information should submit a Departmental Move Form. To view a PDF document, a PDF reader is required. Click here to download Adobe Acrobat Reader. Facebook Twitter Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Bookstore - Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech BuzzCard Center Dining Services Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center 350 Ferst Drive NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0458 Information Desk: (404) 385-4275 Student Center Office: (404) 894-2805 Fax: (404) 894-3888 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login