Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Center for Student Engagement About the Center Engagement Opportunities Professional Staff Student Orgs Civic Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Media Get Involved! Search Search form Enter your keywords Student Engagement Annual Report You are here: GT Home Home Page Welcome to the Center for Student Engagement at Georgia Tech! Student Engagement empowers and supports registered student organizations to catalyze belonging and create an engaging campus community. The Center has a strong history of developing and working closely with Georgia Tech’s outstanding student leaders. The staff that make-up the Center for Student Engagement are still here to provide service and support. You can easily connect with us at engage@gatech.edu and expect a response within 24 hours. Our regular office hours 8:00AM – 5:00PM, Monday-Friday. For access to specific staff, we request that students make an appointment. Civic Engagement More Information Civic Engagement promotes avenues for student learning and global awareness to nurture the development of responsible, global citizens who are committed to building community in the intricate, multilayered world. Fraternity & Sorority Life More Information Fraternity & Sorority Life provides support and advocacy for the members of the Greek community by advising the leadership of the individual chapters and the executive boards of the four governing councils regarding operations, risk management, recruitment, and membership development. Student Media More Information Student Media at the strives to provide the Institute and Atlanta communities with news, information and a forum for the exchange of ideas, while providing an educational learning environment for students interested in creative expression and media management. Student Organizations More Information By supporting Student Organizations at Georgia Tech the office promotes, and strengthens student involvement and engagement at Georgia Tech through the administration of Engage, leadership development opportunities for student organization members and leaders, and oversees student organization annual registration and chartering. Facebook Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Student Life Departments Civic Engagement Center for Student Engagement Counseling Center Disability Services Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) LGBTQIA Resource Center New Student & Transition Programs Office of the Arts Parents Program Research and Assessment for Student Life Student Diversity Programs Student Integrity Student Life Student Media Student Organizations Veterans Resource Center Women's Resource Center Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login