Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Trees Together, Transition Together Main content start The past two years have been challenging and unlike anything we have experienced before. None of us were prepared to shelter in place in 2020, attempt to return to a new normal lifestyle in 2021, then once again alter our lives because of a new COVID-19 variant in 2022. We have felt overwhelmed by the isolation, loneliness, and mandates that have restricted our movement and interactions with others. Many of us have endured unexpected illness, grief, missed opportunities, and economic challenges during this time. Simultaneously, we witnessed and may have been re-traumatized by the racial reckoning, hate crimes, polarization, and social injustices, which were not new but now placed in the spotlight, impacting our communities. Imagining a “next normal” seems daunting, if not exhausting. While we will be entering a new way of being at Stanford, let us take time to acknowledge all that we have been through. Let us learn to be patient with one another and sensitive to widespread grief and loss and the longing for safety and security in these uncertain times. Exhale, reflect, and let us find the support that we need to be our best selves as we move through spring quarter together. Reconnect with others and lend a listening ear to those who have gone through similar experiences or may need a little support. Whether this is the first time you step foot on the Farm or are returning to a campus that feels familiar, yet different at the same time, we hope this website will offer resources and tips to support your transition. The way you move through this time will not look the same as your classmates, yet we can learn from each other and find the support we need to move through the process. We will work together to acknowledge our communities, your concerns and adapt to changes that arise, with the hope that you will find security and belonging here at Stanford. We are Trees Together and we invite you to transition with us. Acknowledge and Adapt Being able to stay present, listen, and share your feelings with others as you anticipate what might come next can help alleviate fear that may arise due to changing environments. Try to sit in this uncomfortable place and be present to learn new skills to help you move on to a new beginning. Acknowledge what you are feeling and remember to take time to care for yourself when it becomes overwhelming. Coping with Loneliness Restrictions during the pandemic prevented us from fulfilling the basic human need to connect with others. This lack of connection with others and self may have led you to experience feelings of loneliness. Explore what we can do when these feelings arise and learn about resources available to help create new and strong connections. • Loneliness & Connection Living with Disappointment, Grief, Loss, and Trauma The pandemic has upended our lives in unpredictable ways. Some of us have had to face great disappointment of milestones and celebrations reimagined, postponed, or even cancelled. Many of us have suffered grief and loss over loved ones, family and friends, or possibly great sadness of the passing of those we have never met, but who were meaningful to our lives. As we each hold unique histories, customs, and lived experiences- our responses and the cumulative impact of uncertainty, death, and loss will impact each of us differently. Find ways to heal your soul and nourish your heart as you move through these feelings. • Grieving at Stanford • Coping & Support for Students (video) Navigating COVID-19 Quarantine and Self-Isolation Remember that no one can totally control COVID. It’s likely that someone you know (or even you) may contract COVID-19, particularly with the highly transmissible Delta variants. Let’s work together to keep our numbers low and support those who may be asked to isolate if they are COVID-19 positive or quarantine if they were vaccinated and a high-risk close contact. Let's also keep in mind and respect those who are not able to get the COVID-19 vaccine due to religious or medical exemptions. The campus will continue to care for those who are asked to temporarily relocate. Transportation, meals, linens, and other support services will also be provided. Stay updated by following the COVID-19 Guidance for Students website. • Isolation for undergraduates • Isolation for graduate and professional students & postdocs • Ending your isolation period • Self-Isolation COVID-19 (housing & dining) Discover Connections and Community It is natural to fear what may lie ahead. The more that we are able to share what we are going through and better understand our emotions, the more that we will be able to accept changes that lie ahead, release our feelings, and stay open to what’s next on our journey. Connect with others and find communities that will support you on your journey. Find Belonging with Our Communities Feeling a sense of belonging is a hugely important part of well-being, allowing us to be our authentic selves in a community that feels like home. Sometimes it is easier to take that step toward community with others who may be experiencing many of the same feelings of disconnection. You may find connection with others through your house, our Community Centers, a student group, or a research lab. There are always communities open and ready to embrace you as one of their own and enrich your experience, while helping you find your voice, at Stanford. • Resources for Our Communities • Community Centers • Stanford Learning Lab • Weiland Health Initiative • Office for Religious & Spiritual Life Socializing Safely You have missed out on months of connecting with your family and friends and want to make up for lost time. While you are encouraged to do so, follow the guidance on face coverings and don’t forget to take precautions whether your gathering is virtual or in person. Look out for those around you, and hold each other accountable as we all strive to come together in safe ways. Below are some resources to help you plan for gatherings that follow COVID-19 protocol, identify ways to socialize and party safely, and determine how to hold yourself and others accountable. Whether you're hosting an event, building your sexual citizenship, or just want to know what's socially available to you, these resources can help guide your decision. • Student Alcohol & Other Drugs Policy • Hosting a Virtual Happy Hour Guidelines & Tips • Student Affairs Gatherings and Parties website • Overview of Gatherings and Meetings at Stanford • Sexual Citizenship: Upstander Intervention Services to Support Your Transition The pandemic may have brought up new concerns or forced trauma from the past to resurface. You do not have to deal with these situations alone. We are here to support you through your transition, while acknowledging and honoring the space you are currently in and all that you hold. Supporting Your Well-Being Whether you want to explore your well-being with a Well-Being Coach, or you’re seeking therapy for the first time, we have many resources in our community to support your mental health and well-being while at Stanford. You don't have to experience what you are going through alone. Remember, many of us are struggling right now, it is okay to not be okay, and you’re a part of a community that takes care of each other. • Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) • CAPS Workshops & Groups for spring • NEW! WPO Therapy Option for Students Disabilities & Accommodations Disabilities are not always visible or permanent. You may have found that the transition to online learning and quick adjustment due to the pandemic may have affected your physical and mental ability to perform your best. The Office of Accessible Education can assist you if you are experiencing limitations because of an impairment. • Office of Accessible Education: Learning & Coping During COVID-19 Feeling Safe and Secure As you begin to receive more social invitations and leave your residence more, create any physical boundaries you need to feel comfortable in the spaces you exist in. Your emotional and physical safety on campus are important. If you experienced conduct or an incident that targets people on the basis of protected characteristics, learn about the process for submitting a report at protectedidentityharm.stanford.edu. • CAPS Video: Health Anxiety & COVID-19 • Stop AAPI Hate • Stanford Threat & Violence Prevention • Confidential Support Team Fill Your Well-Being Toolbox While uncertainty may be the only thing that feels certain these days, we can learn ways to build our capacity to encounter and recover from challenges and stressors. We can take steps to fill our toolbox with skills to navigate challenging times, improve our relationships, and enhance our health and well-being. Mindfulness & Self-Compassion The pressure to perform at the top of our game during a pandemic is unprecedented, and unrealistic. How could we possibly move forward when it can feel as if all that surrounds us is holding us back? Discover ways to quiet your mind and stay in the present. Learn how to get in touch with what you are experiencing in the moment while being kind and gentle to yourself. • LIFE 105: Meeting the Moment: Inner Resources for Hard Times (academic class) • Webinars and Meditations hosted by the Health and Human Performance Team Building Your Resilience Connection, comfort, agency, and safety are fundamental human needs. While we may have felt like we were languishing over the past year, be gentle on yourself, this is our time to start recovering. Find ways to connect with others and find purpose that will allow you to flourish. Take time to engage in activities you enjoy and build social connections to enhance your experience while at Stanford. Discover ways to manage your stress and build resilience. Try out Well-Being Coaching, build your self-care menu, or watch some short videos made by your CAPS therapists. • Videos To Support Your Mental Health • Virtual Well-being • Recreation and Wellness Fitness Program • Mind Over Money Mental Health Resources We know that you will experience new and unexpected challenges during your time at Stanford. You may have found it difficult to focus on your well-being over the past year, as it has been a time of unexpected change which has often resulted in stress, loss, and disconnection. Often it can help to talk to someone about what you are going through, but who do you reach out to? • Mental Health Resources at Stanford • CAPS: Seeking Mental Health Support at Stanford Academic Courses Learn about and practice tools to support diverse aspects of your mental, emotional, physical, relational, financial and spiritual well-being while earning academic units. Choose from a wide selection of courses each quarter. Search under the LEAD, LIFE, WELLNESS, PE, OUTDOOR, and EMED prefixes. • Leadership, Social Change & Flourishing Courses (LEAD) - LEAD catalyzes students’ development into leaders and changemakers who inspire a world of inner and outer flourishing for all. Courses are rooted in a commitment to deep inner work that supports wellbeing, insight, and wisdom and, from that basis, radiates outward to shape and make more just the systems that create and sustain our societies. Search for LEAD. • LifeWorks courses - LifeWorks fosters the growth of “whole students,” cultivating their ability to live boldly, reflectively, and responsibly. Students gain a strong sense of personal and collective identity, and deepen those capacities--including courage, resilience, and compassion--that will help them contribute to an increasingly interdependent world. Search for LIFE. • WellnessEd courses - WellnessEd inspires a healthier, more vibrant university by teaching effective wellness theories and practices that empower students to positively transform their lives and their communities. Search for WELLNESS. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top