Columbia University Libraries Studio Studio Return of Studio Remote Studio Librarians Provide Guide and Design for 3D-Printable Face Shields Space Butler Lehman Remote Studio at Butler The original Studio, Studio at Butler hosts talks, workshops, and two Open Labs. Take the ❶ to 116th St. Columbia University. Cut midway across campus. With the Alma Mater statue to your left, turn right toward Butler Library. Upon entering Butler and passing through access control, turn left. Go around the center of the building to room 208B. Studio at Lehman Studio at Lehman offers Open Labs for four hours, four days a week as well as other programming. Take the ❶ to 116th St. Columbia University. Cut across campus to Amsterdam Ave. Cross Amsterdam, turn left, and turn right on 118th. Enter the International Affairs Building at 420 118th. Descend the stairs. Alternatively, take the left-hand elevators on entering IAB to the third floor. Enter Lehman Social Sciences Library on the third floor. After entering through the turnstile cut back across the front desk and follow the signs that read “DSSC” to a stairway among the DSSC computers. Alternatively, ask at the front desk for elevator access to the second floor. Studio at Lehman is at the bottom of the stairs, room 215. Studio Remote Original programming in digital scholarship every Friday, from 3PM to 5PM. Join us for Season 1: The Rose Hall Project. Practice Principles Learning The Columbia University Libraries Studio enables ethical, sustainable, collaborative, and FAIR digital, data-driven research and pedagogy. Ethical: Technology is never neutral Sustainable: Scholarship is not merely for now Collaborative: We learn best from each other FAIR: Work at the Studio should be findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable The Columbia University Libraries Studio invites interested scholars to base their digital, data-driven research and pedagogy on our principles. As the Studio grows, this space will include links to resources to help introduce scholars to our practice. We invite you to read “Sustainable Authorship in Plain Text using Pandoc and Markdown” by Columbia’s Dennis Tenen and Grant Wythoff as an example of the kind of approach we hope to model. Welcome Butler Studio is open again! To make a reservation for your digital scholarship or pedagogy event please contact our Digital Scholarship Librarian, Alex Gil, (agil@columbia.edu). Our Studio Remote is now on YouTube. You can also visit us at our Research Data Services page to learn more about our services. Columbia University Libraries Studio Calendar Fall 2021 Open Labs (Sep 17 – Dec 3) Studio at Butler: Fridays, 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm Recent News Return of Studio Remote Launching “Coding with the Dead” Announcing Studio Remote Studio Librarians Provide Guide and Design for 3D-Printable Face Shields Affiliates Brown Institute for Media Innovation Center for Spatial Research Data Science Institute Empirical Reasoning Center at Barnard College Group for Experimental Methods in Humanistic Research at Columbia University (XPMethod) MPA in Development Practice Lab Library Links Digital Centers Intership Program Blog Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Foundations for Research Computing About People Open Lab Software Code of Conduct © Columbia University Libraries.