Student Affairs Students Parents and Families Alumni and Friends Home About Committees DEI Commitment Staff Strategic Plan Get Help Grad Assistantship Get Involved Departments News Give Ways to Give Back The Journey is Yours Virtual Tour Upcoming Events Students Access Support and Resources Parents and Families Get informed and Connected Alumni and Friends Get Involved and Give Back Empowering Student Success Student Affairs supports your learning, development, and holistic health. Student Affairs is where you live. Where you work out and hang out. Where you go to get well. Student Affairs has the people you turn to when you need help, or are ready to plan your future. As part of the campus community whose numbers have topped 42,000, you're part of a diverse group that will make a difference in our world. Whether you're a new student or approaching graduation, this site will help you find the information and resources that will help make your Illinois experience a great one. Title Get Involved Body There are more than 800 registered student organizations (RSOs) and many international RSOs active on campus. With so many choices, you are bound to find an organization to join. Find a Student Organization Title Be Well Body We support and encourage the holistic health of all members of the Illinois community. We understand that your wellbeing has significant impact on your ability to achieve your goals. View the Wellness Calendar Title Get Help Body College can be stressful. If you are balancing family, work, financial, and other obligations, it can lead to physical and emotional distress, but you are not alone, we are here to help. Find Help Now Contact Us Have a question? If you need assistance finding a service or resource on campus, we can help! Email Us Student Affairs 120 Swanlund Admin Bldg. 601 E. John St., M/C 304 Champaign, IL 61820 217-333-1300 Email: studentaffairs@illinois.edu Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube Get Help Student Assistance Center Emergency Dean Counseling Center McKinley Health Center Food Resources Resources for Parents Resources for Faculty Sexual Misconduct Support & Reporting Campus Links About Illinois Admissions Campus Map Coronavirus (COVID-19) Directory Facility Access Maps Land Acknowledgement Statement U of I System Additional links About Cookies Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Login