Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Search List of Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Online Courses for Ukrainian Students About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad List of Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Online Courses for Ukrainian Students About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Home Explore Our Programs Choosing a Program AAA Choosing a Program List of Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Online Courses for Ukrainian Students There a lot of factors to consider when choosing a study abroad program. Below are a list of questions you should ask yourself when thinking about a program. Also included below are step-by-step instructions taken directly from the Study Abroad Guide and Workbook on what you should do and who you should see when thinking about which study abroad program to choose. Academics What are your academic goals while abroad? Do you need to complete major, minor, cognate, or writing credits? Are you planning on taking electives? How many credits do you need to take while abroad? Which is the most academically-flexible semester to study abroad? Location Do you have a specific culture, region, or country of interest? Would you prefer a traveling program with multiple destinations? Would you prefer to live in a major metropolitan area, a small city, or a rural area? What do you hope to achieve while living in this new location? What is the social and academic culture like in places that interest you? Program Type Are you interested in a UProgram, UM Partner Program, Faculty-Led program, or Non-UM Program? Which program would work best for you and your goals? Timing How much time do you want to spend abroad –weeks, an entire summer, a semester, an academic year, or a calendar year? How much flexibility do you have for when you can study abroad? Can you only study abroad during a specific term? Finances/Cost Can your current scholarships, grants or tuition waivers be used during a study abroad program? How much does a semester abroad at the location of interest to you cost in comparison to a semester at UM? Do you plan to travel while you are abroad? Eligibility Do you meet the minimum eligibility requirements for study abroad and the admission requirements for your selected study abroad program? Do you have any outstanding issues with the Dean of Students or Student Accounts? Special Circumstances Do you have any special needs to consider while abroad? This could include a medical condition, mobility consideration, learning disability, mental health condition or dietary restriction that may need accommodation while abroad? Meet with Academic Advisor When considering studying abroad, it is important to identify the timing (which semester(s)) and duration (summer, semester, or year) that works best in your academic plan. The best way to do that is to meet with your primary academic advisor in your respective school/college/department. Often, academic advisors will highlight a semester or year when there is more flexibility in your academic plan and will encourage you to study abroad during that time. When you participate in a UM study abroad program, it is important to note that you will earn UM credit that is included in your UM GPA. Many of the classes that you take abroad may count for major, minor, and cognate requirements; look for the section on course equivalencies in the Pre-Departure section of this guide for more information. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Study Abroad Dooly Memorial Classroom Building 1111 Memorial Drive, Suite 125 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3434 305-284-3434 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices