Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Main content start All students coming to campus are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. In addition, booster shots are required. COVID-19 Guidance for Students In order to keep Stanford as healthy and safe as possible for in-person learning and activities, students are expected to follow all university public health requirements at all times and stay updated by regularly checking the COVID guidance webpage for any updates. Top Questions Where can I get vaccinated? Go to VaccineFinder to help identify providers who offer COVID-19 vaccines locally. Where do I upload my vaccination record? Upload your record to the Vaden patient portal. How can I submit my request for a medical exemption? Use this form for a medical exemption. Will Stanford accept a mixed vaccine? For example, some countries are mixing AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna. We will decide on a case-by-case basis. Please submit this form. What about my family members? Vaccinations are also recommended for spouses, partners and children aged 12 years and older. Vaccination resources are here. Requirements and Deadlines Are COVID-19 vaccinations required for students? Stanford will require all undergraduate, graduate, and professional students to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. We will help arriving international students obtain a vaccination if they have been unable to obtain one at their home location, and we will accommodate those who cannot take the vaccine for religious or medical reasons. Vaccination resources are listed here. Are students currently living outside the United States required to get a vaccine that is approved in the United States by the FDA? We recommend that students get vaccinated as soon as they can with whatever vaccine is available to them. We will offer revaccination to students, if that becomes necessary, after they arrive at Stanford. The Vaden COVID Care Team can provide more information on these types of arrangements via the Vaden patient portal. Are COVID-19 vaccinations required for non-student partners, spouses and children? COVID-19 vaccinations for non-student partners and spouses living in RD&E-assigned housing are strongly recommended but not required. Submitting Your Immunization Record What is needed to prove that I am vaccinated? Students vaccinated in the United States should upload their CDC COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card. Students vaccinated outside the United States are permitted to upload documentation from other countries. How do I submit my immunization record? Sign in to the Vaden patient portal and follow the instructions to upload a copy of your documentation and enter the dates of vaccination(s). Why is Health Check also asking for COVID vaccination information? Responding to this question in Health Check is necessary to confirm your vaccination status and to help inform testing compliance of your assigned surveillance testing cadence. Extensions for Students Unable to Get Vaccinated in Their Home Locations What do I do if I cannot get vaccinated in my home location? Will I receive an extension so that I can register for classes? We will help arriving students obtain their vaccinations if they have been unable to obtain one at their home location. Students in this situation must request an extension, but they will need to be vaccinated immediately upon their arrival on campus and adhere to testing and other potential public health requirements until their vaccinations are fully effective. You may request an extension here. More information on vaccination providers in the United States is here. Exemptions for Medical and Religious Reasons What do I do if I cannot be vaccinated against COVID-19 for medical or religious reasons? We will accommodate students who cannot take the vaccine for medical or religious reasons. Students in this situation must request an exemption and, if approved, will be required to undergo regular COVID-19 testing and other potential public health requirements. The medical exemption form is here. The religious exemption form is here. What do I do if I do not want to be vaccinated? Who do I inform and how? Exemptions, for other than approved medical and religious reasons, are not accepted for the required vaccinations. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top