Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Studio Art Department of Studio Art Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Studio.Art.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Back to Top Nav Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Back to Top Nav Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Back to Top Nav Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Back to Top Nav Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links Back to Top Nav People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Art Awards The Department of Studio Art offers a variety of different art awards to assist and honor students who show strong potential and who wish to pursue their artwork. Sera Boeno exhibiting work at the POD Award Exhibition The Arts Award Ceremony, 2015 PreviousNext Studio Art Awards - Project Submission (Proposal required) Melissa Brown Hurlock-Hobson 1993 Award: The Melissa Brown Hurlock-Hobson 1993 Award Fund was established in July 2002 in honor of Melissa Brown '93. Melissa was a studio art major, intern and POD Award recipient. She received a Reynolds Scholarship to study Aboriginal art and culture in Australia and then went on to complete an MFA at the San Francisco Art Institute. After a long struggle with breast cancer, Melissa passed away on December 26, 2001. The award was established in recognition of Melissa's commitment and achievement as an artist. In her memory, an annual award is presented to a student who demonstrates accomplishments preferably in the area of printmaking, painting, sculpture, drawing or photography. Priority is given to a rising sophmore or junior art student who submits a proposal for a special project to the Department Chair, or a student with outstanding potential in the artistic areas specified. The award is designed to recognize outstanding accomplishments, and to help provide recipients with the means to pursue their artistic aspirations as outlined in student proposals. Applicants must submit their proposal by the spring term deadline. The recipient will be announced during spring term at the award ceremony. The Class of 1960 Curatorial Fellow: This award was establish in 2014 by the Class of 1960 to enable a student to curate exhibitions in the student run art gallery in the Black Family Visual Arts Center. Each year the fellow will curate, coordinate and oversee 4-6 exhibitions of Dartmouth students in the gallery. This involves soliciting artwork, curating work, installing and de-installing exhibitions, preparing labels, writing publicity, and organizing receptions. Applicants must submit their proposal by the spring term deadline. The recipient will be announced during spring term at the award ceremony. Studio Art Awards - Recognition for work Perspectives on Design (POD): The POD (Perspectives on Design) award was established anonymously in 1992 and is given annually to the graduating senior(s) whose accomplishments in studio art are judged by the faculty of the Department of Studio Art to be the most worthy of recognition. In addition to a monetary award, the winner will be afforded the opportunity to have an exhibition of his or her work in the department's regular gallery space, including support for mounting and advertising the exhibition. Robert Read Prize: This prize was established as a descriptive geometry award in a bequest by Robert Leland Read, an alumnus of the Class of 1864, who served much of his career as a civil engineer with railroads in Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. As descriptive geometry is no longer in the curriculum, the prize is now awarded for work in the graphic arts. Wolfenden Fine Arts Prize: Established in 1987 in honor of the late Josephine Wolfenden, wife of the faculty member and a student for many years of Paul Sample, the Wolfenden Fine Arts Prize is a cash award given to a student for demonstrated proficiency in painting, sculpture or draughtsmanship. W. David Dance 1940 Fine Arts Award The W. David Dance 1940 Fine Arts Award is a prize of a contemporary fine art print awarded to three exceptional graduating seniors in the department of Studio Art. Each student selects a print from a group of works earmarked for this award. These prints—etchings, woodcuts, engravings, mezzotints, digital/new media, and photographs—are purchased by or donated to the Hood Museum of Art specifically for this award. The fund for the award was given by Robert Dance, Class of 1977, in honor of his father, a devoted alumnus of the college. HOP Funding The Class of 1961 Arts Initiative Fund: Undergraduates are invited to apply for support of student enterprises in the arts. This award is funded by members of the Class of 1961 in order to enable talented Dartmouth undergraduates to undertake special projects in the arts. Particular interest will be given to those projects that “stand alone”—that is, projects that are not undertaken as senior fellowships or honors projects, or are affiliated with student organizations. The fund makes up to $1,500 available to sponsor student-initiated projects in the performing and visual arts. Application is open to single or group projects. This award is offered during the fall term only. The Robert Dance '77 Initiative Fund: The Robert Dance ’77 Fund enables talented Dartmouth undergraduates to undertake special projects in the arts. Preference is given to performing or visual arts projects that are “site specific works,” created for venues other than traditional galleries, theaters or auditoriums. Outdoor venues, residential spaces, and dining halls are among the sites which might be appropriate. The fund makes a total of up to $4,300 available to sponsor major student projects in the performing and visual arts. Undergraduate students and organizations are eligible to apply. This award is offered during the fall term only. Dartmouth College Scholarships Fulbright Grants: Studio Art majors are encouraged to apply for Fulbright grants. In 1945, Senator J. William Fulbright introduced a bill in the United States Congress that called for the use of proceeds from the sale of surplus war property to fund the "promotion of international good will through the exchange of students in the fields of education, culture, and science." The Fulbright U.S. Student Program is now the largest U.S. exchange program offering opportunities for students, and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and teaching in elementary and secondary schools worldwide. The U.S. Student Program currently awards approximately 1,100 grants annually in all fields of study, and operates in more than 140 countries worldwide. For comprehensive information on grant opportunities in a specific country, please visit participating countries on the Fulbright website. Dr. Melina Gehring is the Fulbright Program Administrator (FPA) for Dartmouth. The Marshall Scholoraship for Graduate School: The Marshall Scholarship Program was established in 1953 to honor U.S. Secretary of State George C. Marshall and express Britain’s gratitude for economic assistance received through the Marshall Plan after World War II. Marshall Scholarships finance young Americans of high ability to study for a degree in the United Kingdom. Each year, 40 scholars are selected to spend two years in graduate school at a British University, with all expenses paid by the British government. Third-year extensions are granted by the Commission on a limited basis, for strong academic reasons, subject to the availability of funds. As future leaders, with a lasting understanding of British society, Marshall Scholars strengthen the enduring relationship between the British and American peoples, their governments and their institutions. Marshall Scholars are talented, independent and wide-ranging, and their time as Scholars enhances their intellectual and personal growth. Their direct engagement with Britain through its best academic programs contributes to their ultimate personal success. Former Marshall Scholars include Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer and New York Times Foreign Affairs columnist Thomas Friedman. The Marshall Scholarship is a prestigious award that funds two years of study in the UK. Students can study at Glasgow, Royal College of Art, Chelsea, and more. Marshall Scholarship candidates need a minimum GPA of 3.7. For more information, please contact visit the website or contact Jessica G. Smolin. Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Dartmouth Studio Art Department Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback