Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News The Flourish, April 2022 Main content start Supporting the well-being of all students at Stanford April is National Alcohol Awareness Month and Sexual Assault Awareness Month. This month, we discuss the effects of alcohol and other drugs and reflect on how we can further strengthen and protect our communities. How can we protect our community from fentanyl? How does alcohol affect our brain development? How much alcohol is “safe” to drink? How can we prevent the bystander effect and be upstanders? Find answers in this month’s edition. Together, we can learn more about drugs and how to keep our campus safe. In Focus Protecting our communities — what is fentanyl? Let’s be clear about the data — the vast majority of Stanford students do NOT use drugs. We know that approximately 12% of our community has used some type of illicit substance within the past year. That puts 12% of our student body at risk for purchasing and using drugs that may be counterfeit and laced with highly lethal substances, such as fentanyl. Learn More Alcohol and the Developing Brain How is Life Tree-Ting You? Did you know that one’s brain isn’t fully developed until around age 25? That means that activities that you engage in, whether healthy or not, may have a profound impact during this critical phase in brain development. Studies have shown that the use of alcohol and other drugs can alter one’s brain during this developmental period. The impact on our brain is much greater, and longer lasting, than getting a little buzzed, feeling a bit tipsy, or lowering our social inhibitions. Learn More “SUPER cups” —what are those? In the Spotlight In popular media, drinking games are portrayed as a fun, harmless, and essential part of the American college experience. As we know, popular media struggles to accurately depict reality, and sometimes misses the real risks of gamifying substance use. While they may look fun, drinking games are easy routes to over-drinking and experiencing unintended consequences of consuming alcohol. Learn More Live the Upstander LIFE Tip of the Month If you’re at a social event and see a situation unfolding that doesn’t sit right with you or makes you uncomfortable, it can feel paralyzing. You can feel lost as to what to do or say, and question your own judgment as to whether it’s really “that bad.” This is called the bystander effect. Luckily, being aware of this and learning concrete ways to mitigate it can go a long way in keeping our community well, and preventing harm. We have entered Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM), a time we can intentionally build our awareness of sexual violence, it’s prevalence in our communities, and make commitments to creating a safe, non-violent, Stanford. Learn More Sleep Soundly: A Closer Look at Melatonin Sleep Corner There’s a high chance you know someone who takes melatonin supplements. But what is melatonin and how does it affect our sleep? Melatonin is a natural sleep hormone secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. Melatonin begins to be released around 2 hours before your bedtime in response to less light coming in through your retina. Melatonin’s primary function is to regulate the body’s sleep-wake cycle, promoting healthy sleep and orienting one’s circadian rhythm. Melatonin's relationship with sleep has led millions of people to take melatonin supplements as sleep aids. Learn More What’s flourishing this month? Upcoming events Sunday, April 30, National Prescription Take Back Day: The National Prescription Drug Take Back Day aims to provide a safe, convenient, and responsible means of disposing of prescription drugs, while also educating the general public about the potential for abuse of medications. Find a no-questions-asked disposal site: www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_disposal/takeback/ Thursday, May 5 at 6 pm, Keynote w/Dr. Anna Lembke: “Pleasure, Pain, and Addiction: What Neuroscience and People in Recovery Can Teach Us About How to Navigate a Dopamine Overloaded World.” (Event to take place at Tresidder Union, Cypress Conference Room at 6pm, with a reception to follow at The Well House.) Tuesday, May 10 from 10am - 1pm, PEERs x 5-Sure Crossover: a tabling event to participate in Fentanyl Awareness Day and get trained on administering Narcan to reverse an overdose! (Tabling will be from 10am-12pm. Narcan training and distribution is from 12pm-1pm. Located in the White Plaza at the Bird Cage.) The Flourish Return to the main page Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top