Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Student Senate The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Medical Student Senate (MSS) democratically organizes and represents the interests of our diverse student body. Breadcrumb Home Community Sub Navigation In This Section Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Student Senate The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Medical Student Senate (MSS) democratically organizes and represents the interests of our diverse student body. The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Medical Student Senate facilitates improvements to school policy and operations as well as exercising our voice in the larger healthcare system to better prepare excellent and conscientious medical professionals. Core Values Our work will be guided and informed by our commitment to fostering a culture of advocacy, equity, diversity, communication, and accountability: Advocacy: Advocate both for a medical school that nurtures socially and critically conscious health professionals through its curriculum, operations, and community engagements, while providing access to resources that support students’ academic success and mental, physical, emotional, and spiritual well being. Equity & Diversity: Promote historically conscious and culturally equitable practices within the framework of medical education, including the recruitment and retention of a diverse staff, faculty, and student body; the advancement of a structurally humble medical curriculum where the rights, dignity, and responsibility of the patient are emphasized; and the development of a culturally inclusive learning environment. Communication & Accountability: Uphold open-channel communication between medical students and other components of the medical school and University, ensure that we operate within the interests and wishes of the student body, and acquaint both students and the administration with novel concerns and projects in order to foster a more concordant and united school community. University Resources Regarding Immigration Policies (2019) The University is committed to supporting all Brown students legally, financially, personally and academically, and recognizes every individual’s situation as distinct and different. First and foremost, students should register any particular concerns with Julio Reyes, the UFLi Center program director (401-863-5676 or julio_reyes@brown.edu) who can engage the appropriate individuals throughout the University to address specific issues. What is the University’s policy regarding law enforcement and immigration status? Brown’s Department of Public Safety neither inquiries about nor acts upon information related to immigration status, and does not partner with federal or state agencies to do so. For more information, please contact Lt. John A. Carvlho at Brown Department of Public Safety (401-863-5376) What should a student do if they are approached on or off campus by immigration officials? If immigration authorities are on campus, or if you are detained off campus at any time as a result of immigration status, please contact the Department of Public Safety (DPS) immediately at 401-863-3322. DPS will contact relevant University officials. What should a Brown employee do if they are approached by law enforcement for information about a member of the Brown community? If a Brown employee is approached by federal, state or local law enforcement seeking information about a member of the Brown community, the Brown employee should contact DPS at 401-863-3322 and James Green, Office of General Counsel's Deputy Counsel (401-863-9977 or jmgreen@brown.edu). Resources Below is a list of resources that the University is providing immediately: DACA Renewal The University recommends that students who are eligible to renew their DACA authorization (i.e. if their DACA status or employment authorization documents expire between 120-150 days from expiration) should apply for renewal as soon as possible. The University will cover the costs of the application fee and related attorney consultation. To access funding, please contact Vernicia L. Elie, Assistant Dean of the College for Financial Advising (401-863-5671 or vernicia_elie@brown.edu). Legal Support The University will support students’ access to legal consultation, and believes that students should exercise agency in choosing an attorney that they trust. To access funding to support an initial consultation with an outside attorney, please contact Vernicia L. Elie, Assistant Dean of the College for Financial Advising. For a list of outside attorneys who practice immigration law, please contact Julio Reyes, UFLi Center Program Director. Financial Support If the recent decision affects a student’s financial aid award, the University will expand institutional scholarship funds to meet any funding gaps. Undergraduate students in need should be in touch with financial aid counseling at Financial_Aid@brown.edu or 401-863-2721 Graduate students in need should contact Marlina Duncan, Associate Dean of the Graduate School (401-863-2713). Medical students in need should contact Allan Tunkel, Associate Dean of Medical Education (401-863-1618). Health and Wellness We recognize that this is a highly stressful and uncertain period for students affected by these changes. Brown has enhanced Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) resources, including increasing the diversity of the health professionals to ensure a depth of relevant experience. To access general mental health and wellness support, please contact CAPS (401-863-3576) to schedule an appointment. Undocumented and DACA students seeking a specific point person in CAPS should contact Julio Reyes, UFLi Center Program Director. Summary of Important Contacts Julio Reyes, UFLi Program Director: 401-863-5676 or julio_reyes@brown.edu Vernicia L. Elie, Assistant Dean of the College for Financial Advising: 401-863-5671 or vernicia_elie@brown.edu Marlina Duncan, Associate Dean of the Graduate School: 401-863-2713 Allan Tunkel, Senior Associate Dean of Medical Education: 401-863-1618 or allan_tunkel@brown.edu Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): 401-863-3576 Katie Silberman, Associate Director of Community Relations: 401 – 863 - 3717 Lt. John A. Carvlho, Brown Department of Public Safety: 401-863-5376 Department of Public Safety (DPS): 401-863-3322 Medical Student Senate Medical Student Senate Website A Brown login is required to enter this site. Email the Student Senate Questions, comments, or concerns? Email us -- we'd love to hear from you! Newsletter Want to stay in touch? Sign up to receive our newsletters! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Senate Open details for Student Senate Bookmark this Page