Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Payment Options Tuition and fees are due and payable prior to the beginning of each semester. Failure to pay all billed charges may cause a student's schedule to be cancelled. Students with outstanding balances will not be allowed to register for a future semester and may be subject to Penalty and Interest charges. Students can pay their bill via: ePay (electronic payment from checking or savings account or credit card) Bank Bill Pay Services 529 College Savings Plan Tuition Reimbursement Mail International Credit/Debit Card Wire Transfer GI Bill Monthly Payment Plan ePay The University’s preferred method of payment, ePay, allows students to pay their bills online with an eCheck. Funds are electronically withdrawn from a student’s checking or savings accounts* with no fee, and payments are posted to the student’s account immediately. Using ePay, students may also pay with a credit/debit card; however, a 2.85 percent transaction fee is charged on all credit card payments. Students should follow these steps to pay their bill online. MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Student Accounts tile > Make a Payment Log into the MyPack Portal, using your Unity ID and password View your ‘Student Homepage’ Select the ‘Student Accounts’ tile From the left-hand navigation menu, select ‘Make a Payment’ Select either What I Owe, Last Billed Amount, or enter Other Amount to pay by clicking the corresponding checkbox Select the green ‘Pay Now’ button You will be transferred to a secure payment site where you’ll be able to complete the payment process. Be sure your popup blockers are disabled. Review your payment information and select the ‘Confirm’ button to complete your transaction View and print your payment confirmation Review your emailed confirmation of your payment *Some savings accounts do not allow this type of transaction. If you are unsure, please contact your bank. Parent/Guardian ePay Access Students should follow these steps to authorize the Cashier’s Office to discuss confidential account information with a parent or other guardian. Log into the MyPack Portal with your Unity ID and password. View your Student Homepage Select the ‘Personal Information’ tile From the left-hand navigation menu, select ‘Parent & Guardian Access’ Students can choose to add, edit, or revoke Parent/Guardian Access as desired Select ‘Add Relationship’ to add a new relationship, or ‘Edit Relationship’ to edit an existing relationship Enter all information required for the new relationship or update as needed for an existing relationship Click ‘Save’ when complete You will be redirected to the main Parent & Guardian Access page, that corresponds with the newly added or updated relationship On the Parent/Guardian Access page, read the message about granting access. Note: If you previously created a phone inquiry access PIN, you can delete or will have to create a new one when you set up the online access. The guardian will be required to provide this code if they call to find out information about your student account. Select the “Submit” button once complete. Students have the option to grant access to the following: Student Accounts / Billing / Payment – Grants access to view and print current and past bills, view current changes and the ability to pay online. Tax Information – Grants access to view and print the 1098T information. You must grant Student Account access in order to allow access to tax information. Academic Information – Grants access to view Class Schedules, Grades, Transcript and Transfer Credit information. Directory Information – Grants access to view student directory information, such as local address and phone number. Even if a FERPA block has been set up and your information is not being shown in the ‘FIND PEOPLE’ directory, selecting this option will allow this parent/guardian to view this information. Financial Aid – Grants access to view Financial Aid information. This includes information about awards, loans, scholarships, fellowships and work study jobs that you have received or have been offered. If you have applied for Financial Aid, it includes information about the status of your application. Use the toggle buttons to grant or revoke access for the selected person Be sure to select ‘Save Changes’ when complete ePay Troubleshooting Tips If you are experiencing difficulties paying your bill through ePay, follow these steps to troubleshoot, or call the Student Accounts Office for assistance. ePay is designed to work with Internet Explorer 6.0 and higher (with 128-bit encryption). If you are using an older browser, you may need to upgrade in order to utilize ePay. You can upgrade your browser by clicking Internet Explorer 11.0. Then follow the instructions to download Internet Explorer 11.0. If you are using a VPN (Virtual Private Network) connection, you must disable this connecting before logging into ePay. If your Internet Service Provider (ISP) is AOL, you may need to open an additional browser session for ePay (this is because AOL’s modified browser may not work correctly with some secure sites such as ePay). To do this, access the Internet as you normally would. Once you are connected, double-click the Internet Explorer icon to open it. Use this newly opened browser to access the ePay website. Your user ID is your Unity ID. Be sure that you are using only your Unity ID and not your entire email address. This means that you should not include “@ncsu.edu” in the user ID box. For additional assistance email studentservices@ncsu.edu with the following information: operating system browser version internet service provider the exact error message you are receiving (Back to Top) Bank Bill Pay Services If you use an on-line bank bill payment service, please note that a check is generated and mailed directly by your bank – THIS IS NOT AN INSTANT TRANSFER OF FUNDS. The remittance advice will not be included with the check and will necessitate manual processing, which will delay application of your payment. Please be sure that the student ID number is printed on the face of the check to prevent additional delays. These payments should be made payable to North Carolina State University and addressed to: 2005 Harris Hall, Campus Box 7213, Raleigh, NC 27695-7213. If you are paying by check, we strongly suggest you use our free ePAY service to pay your charges. Payments made this way post instantly to the student’s account. (Back to Top) Section 529 College Savings Plan With a 529 College Savings Plan, the parent/student accesses funds and sends a check to the University. Parents and/or students must contact their 529 plan administrator directly and follow their procedures to process a withdrawal. All 529 plans have different forms and request different documents. Every state (including Washington, DC) offers a state section 529 plan. Please visit your 529 plan’s website to see what information is required to support a withdrawal request. If your plan requires a copy of your eBILL as proof of qualified direct educational expenses, you may print your statement from the MyPack portal. If your plan requires confirmation of cost of attendance items not billed, you may print that data for your records. Instructions: Contact your 529 provider(s) well in advance of the due date to ensure the University receives payment by the deadline. Decide where to send the tuition check. We recommend that 529 checks be sent directly to you. Once the check clears your account, you would then remit payment via our free ePay service though the MyPack Portal. Checks may be sent directly to the University. Checks should be made payable to North Carolina State University. Reference the student’s full name and nine digit Student ID number. Mail your check to: NC State University University Cashier’s Office 2005 Harris Hall Campus Box 7213 Raleigh, NC 27695-7213 View more details about 529 College Savings Plans at the Saving For College website. Find additional information about the tax benefits of a 529 plan at www.irs.gov. Have questions about your NC 529? Please contact the College Foundation of North Carolina at CFNC.org or their toll-free number at 1.800.600.3453. (Back to Top) Tuition Reimbursement Any arrangement between an employee and an employer for tuition reimbursement is between those two parties. The University does not extend payment deadlines based on such arrangements. Tuition and fees are due at the beginning of each semester. Further questions and concerns by emailing studentservices@ncsu.edu. (Back to Top) Pay by Mail Payments sent to the University must be payable in U.S. Dollars and made payable to North Carolina State University. check drawn on a U.S. bank U.S. Postal Order cashier’s check drawn on a U.S. bank Mail scholarship checks to: Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid North Carolina State University 2016 Harris Hall, Campus Box 7302 Raleigh NC 27695-7302 If you are shipping by UPS, FedEx or DHL, mail your package to: University Cashier’s Office 2831 Thurman Drive 2005 Harris Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 Include your nine-digit Student ID (not your Social Security number) on your check or include the payment/remittance stub from the PDF copy of your billing statement. Payment from Foreign Sources Checks issued by foreign banks are not acceptable (even though they may be “payable in US funds”) since a foreign bank check does not have an American Banking Association (ABA) routing number or standardized account number structure and cannot be cleared through the Federal Reserve Bank System. Each non-U.S. check would have to be manually processed by our depository bank, and would be subject to a processing fee and a delay of several weeks to clear. The most efficient and cost-effective way to send payments from foreign sources is by credit card or wire transfer. (Back to Top) International Credit/Debit Card NC State University has partnered with Flywire to offer an innovative and streamlined way to make international tuition payments. Flywire’s mission is to save international students and their families money that would otherwise be lost on bank fees and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. With Flywire, you are offered excellent foreign exchange rates, allowing you to pay in your home currency (in most cases) and save a significant amount of money, as compared to traditional banks. Flywire offers different payment options depending on which country you are paying from. If the credit/debit card option is available for your payment, Visa or MasterCard will be automatically displayed as payments options when you make a payment request on their website. International Students: Go to https://www.flywire.com/school/ncsu to begin the payment process. To get started, select the country from which funds will be coming and the payment amount in US dollars you wish to make to your student bill. In most cases, the US dollar amount will be converted into your home currency at preferential exchange rates, which will translate into savings for you. Select your payment method (MasterCard or Visa). Enter the card number, security code, expiration date and card holder name to complete the payment. You will receive an email to confirm receipt of payment. Flywire will then forward the US dollar amount to NC State University where it will be directly credited to your student billing account. Please allow 2 to 3 business days for your payment to be delivered to NC State University. You will receive a payment delivery confirmation when that happens. At any time, you will have a dedicated customer service team reachable via chat, Skype, email and phone to answer any of your questions. (Back to Top) Pay by Wire Transfer NC State University has partnered with Flywire to offer students an innovative and streamlined way to make international tuition payments. Through Flywire, students can pay with their home currency (in most cases), and payments are posted more quickly. Students are notified via email when payment is received. International Students To begin payment process, go to ncsu.flywire.com and follow these steps: Select the country from which funds will be coming and the payment amount (in U.S. dollars) you wish to make to your student bill. In most cases, the U.S. dollar amount will be converted into your home currency at preferential exchange rates. After providing some additional basic information, you will book the transaction and will be instructed via email on how to pay Flywire from your home country bank account. Flywire will then forward the U.S. dollar amount to NC State University where it will be directly credited to your student billing account. You will receive an email to confirm receipt of payment. At any time, a customer service team is available via chat, Skype, email and phone to answer any of your questions. Domestic Students Contact studentservices@ncsu.edu for instructions. (Back to Top) Pay by GI Bill (Veterans Education Payment Plan) Due to delays that might occur in the processing of Veterans Education student benefit payments, NC State offers veterans, and other eligible students a Payment Deferment Plan. Payment Deferred – 4 Month Plan Designed to coincide with the VA release of Post-9/11 Tuition and Fee payments and student Monthly Education Benefit stipends, view the schedule below: Fall Payment Schedule Spring Payment Schedule September 15 February 15 October 15 March 15 November 15 April 15 December 15 May 15 The cost of this plan is $24 per semester. This plan does not include the Tuition Protection Life Insurance provide by the standard TMS plan. NOTE: The above plan is not available for Summer Sessions. Payment, or approved financial aid, will be required by the billing due date for all Summer Sessions. Instructions to Enroll in the Deferment Plan: After Veterans Education Benefit students complete their course enrollment and NC State online VA “Certification Request,” the Cashier’s Office will be notified of their VA benefits status. If you are VA Benefits-Eligible, you can gain access to the payment plan through the MyPack Portal. On the Student Accounts tile, select View/Sign up for Payment Plan, then click the Sign Up/View button. This will open a new window (be sure your popup blocker is turned off). Instructions on Budgeting with the Plan: Total all Student Account Charges tuition & fees, health insurance, housing, meals and other fees. Subtract any grants, scholarships, loans, deposits, Post-9/11 VA Education Benefits (Chapter 33) and other military funding. NOTE: Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) students or transfer of entitlements only need to budget for the remaining balance not covered by their direct pay tuition and fees benefit. This includes incremental Non-Resident tuition/fee costs, students not eligible for the full benefit (100% eligibility tier, payment is prorated based on your eligibility percentage) and any on-campus housing and dining. For assistance with budgeting, please contact ncsu_vapymt@ncsu.edu. Terms of Deferral Payment Plan: Students must have the plan in place by the Billing Due Date, with the correct budget and the enrollment fee paid, or be subject to plan cancellation. Prior term charges may not be included in the Payment Plan. These must be paid directly to the Student Account via MyPack Portal. Students who make payments consistent with the Agreement will not be subject to interest charges and can be cleared to register for the upcoming term(s). Current term plans and any items not previously included in their budget must be paid in full by the final plan due date or the schedule for the upcoming term is subject to cancellation. Failure to comply with the Terms and Conditions of the agreement may prevent usage of a payment plan in future semesters. (Back to Top) Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.