Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Studio Art Department of Studio Art Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Studio.Art.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Back to Top Nav Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Back to Top Nav Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Back to Top Nav Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Back to Top Nav Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links Back to Top Nav People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Share 2020 Award Recipients Emma Rodriguez, Pangea VI, digital, 2020. Eric Wang, "Untitled." Dye, bleach on canvas. 2020. PreviousNext Winners of the 2020 Art Awards Heiman-Rosenthal Award Yenny Dieguez - Yenny Dieguez was born in Cuba and raised in Miami, FL, where she began drawing at an early age and attended School for Advanced Studies High School. Yenny's main concentration in Studio Art has been drawing and mixed-media art. After graduation, Yenny will move back home and apply for law school. 2020 Perspectives on Design (POD) Award Tanya Shah - Tanya grew up in Hong Kong where she developed a love for art at a young age from the vibrant art scene in the city and her mother, a designer and photographer. She enjoys working with photography and creating experiential installations. She also loves to paint. After Dartmouth, she is hoping to do a residency in Paros, Greece, and then plans on pursuing a career in design and eventually going to grad school. Eric Wang - Eric Wang grew up in Columbus, OH. He takes a highly experimental approach to painting, using unconventional materials and chemical agents. Next year, he will remain at Dartmouth to work as a teaching assistant for the Studio Art Department. 2020 W. David Dance Fine Art Award Claire Burner - Claire Burner was born and raised in Lemont, IL, where she developed a passion for the arts during her childhood. Claire graduated from Lemont High School. Claire's main media is drawing, and she has expanded her work to oil painting and photography. After graduation, Claire will intern in Dartmouth's Studio Art Department and plans on applying to law school. Christina Lu - Christina Lu was born in Shanghai and grew up in Cupertino, California. Her work is rooted in technical underpinnings, and her concentration has shifted from traditional painting to mixed media sculpture—particularly fabric and metal—and digital media. She hopes to unite a career in technology with art in the future in London. Emma Rodriguez - Emma Rodriguez began painting and drawing at a young age. Most of her work at Dartmouth was oil painting, but in her senior year she shifted towards digital drawing and textiles, specifically knitting. Emma will be working at WISE for a year before moving to the Bay Area to attend law school at UC Berkeley. 2020 Robert Read Prize Kathryn Shiber - Kate Shiber was born and raised in New Jersey and graduated from The Hotchkiss School in 2016. She majored in both Studio Art and Quantitative Social Sciences (Honors). Within Studio Art, Kate concentrated in drawing and painting. She also enjoys photography. After graduation, Kate will move to NYC to continue her art and to work for investment bank Centerview Partners. Rachel Lincoln - Rachel Lincoln is from Fountain Hills, AZ. Her senior work has focused on drawing and expanded into mixed media. Rachel is excited to make whatever she likes after graduation while she works and ponders grad school. Grace Hanselman – Grace Hanselman is from Carlsbad, CA, and always knew that she wanted to be an artist. Grace graduated from San Marcos High School in San Marcos, CA. At Dartmouth, Grace mostly focused on painting, but is also very interested in fiber arts. After graduation, Grace hopes to go to graduate school and eventually work in the museum field. 2020 Wolfenden Fine Arts Prize Yenny Dieguez - Yenny Dieguez was born in Cuba and raised in Miami, FL, where she began drawing at an early age and attended School for Advanced Studies High School. Yenny's main concentration in Studio Art has been drawing and mixed-media art. After graduation, Yenny will move back home and apply for law school. Saba Maheen - Saba Maheen was born and raised in Lawrenceville, GA. Her main concentration in Studio Art is photography, but her practice revolves around storytelling and the phenomenology of identity, duality, diaspora, and memory through a multi-media approach. After graduation, Saba hopes to attain her MFA and eventually travel the world to make portraits of people she hasn't met yet. Turiya Adkins – Turiya Adkins was born and raised in Brooklyn New York where she attended Saint Ann's School. While Adkins' main concentrations are in painting and printmaking she is currently exploring sculpture. After graduation, Turiya plans to work as a Studio Art intern and hopefully get her MFA in the years following. Seamus Hall Seamus Hall was born and raised in New York City and graduated from Fordham Preparatory in 2016. He majored in Studio Art, focusing in Architecture and Design, and Minored in Human Centered Design at Dartmouth. He enjoys working at the intersection of art, architecture, design, and engineering and is always trying to discover new technologies to aid him in his work. After graduation Seamus will continue his passion of art, design and technology while working at Villency Design Group, known for designing the Peloton as well as many other reputable boutique fitness brands such as SoulCycle. 2020 Melissa Hurlock Hobson Brown Award Julian Jimenez Julian Jimenez was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. At an early age he demonstrated little interest in art, merely drawing to satisfy his imagination. After graduating from Uncommon Charter High School in 2018, Julian went on to Dartmouth with the intent of pursing computer science. Struggling through his first term, he turned to art as a way to center himself and is now a studio art major who is fully committed to the artistic process. After graduating from Dartmouth in 2022, Julian hopes to attend graduate school at the Rhode Island School of Design. Macy Toppan - Macy Toppan grew up in South Kent, CT, and realized a love for visual art at a young age. Macy graduated from The Taft School in Watertown, CT where she followed her passion by taking as many art-related courses as possible. While her focus is primarily on classical drawing and painting, Macy hopes to experiment with and expand into animation and other digital media. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Dartmouth Studio Art Department Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback