Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports CARES Act Emergency Grants The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act includes the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) that provides emergency funding to support students impacted by the campus disruption due to the coronavirus. CARES Act Emergency Grants will be released directly to students for qualifying expenses such as food, housing, technology needs, childcare expenses, medical expenses and other expenses resulting from the campus disruption. Reporting and Disclosure Institutional Reports Student Reports Eligible Students The Department of Education requires that students meet federal financial aid eligibility requirements to qualify for CARES Act Emergency Grant assistance. Students enrolled in exclusively online programs or were fully enrolled in online courses at the time of the disruption are ineligible. Students not eligible for support under the CARES Act Emergency Grant may apply for funding from the Pack Essentials Student Emergency Fund administered by DASA as long as funding remains to be available. Application Process CARES Act Emergency Grant Funding has been fully expended and the application is no longer available. Should additional funding become available, the application will be reopened. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If you have already completed the FAFSA, you do not need to complete it again. If you have not yet completed the FAFSA, we recommend you complete the 2020-21 version. Complete the CARES ACT Emergency Grant Application. The application is available in MyPack under the Financial Aid tile. Enroll in direct deposit. Enroll, update or check your direct deposit enrollment by visiting the Student Accounts tile in MyPack Portal. CARES Act Emergency Grants will be released first to students who experienced disruption during Spring 2020 (2019-20 aid year). The application will be extended to include Summer 2020 for those that continue enrollment and incur expenses related to the disruption of moving classes fully online. NC State understands the need to act quickly to address your needs. We will make every effort to review and respond to your application as quickly as possible. If you have questions, please contact our staff by emailing financialaid@ncsu.edu. A staff member will quickly respond and ensure you have all the information you need. FAQ The spring semester has ended but I haven’t submitted my CARES Act Emergency Grant application. Can I still apply? We recommend you apply as soon as possible. Requests are expected to exceed funding availability. Students graduating in the spring semester should apply prior to their graduation date. How is the amount of the CARES Act Emergency Grant calculated? For requests related to expenses in the cost of attendance, like meals and housing, the maximum amount is a proration of the value used in the undergraduate cost of attendance and based on the maximum number of weeks the campus experienced disruption. If the application indicates a lesser amount is needed, the lesser amount will be considered. For requests related to expenses for technology, child care, health/medical expenses or other items, the requested amount will be considered. While the maximum total grant request for all expenses is $3000, all requests are subject to review and approval based on available funding. Are international students eligible for CARES Act Emergency Grants? Not at this time. The Department of Education requires that students meet federal financial aid eligibility criteria. International students can apply for support through the Pack Essentials Student Emergency Fund. Do I have to complete a FAFSA to be considered for CARES Act Emergency Grants? Yes. The Department of Education requires that students meet federal financial aid eligibility criteria. I was approved for a CARES Act Emergency Grant. How will I receive the funds? The funds will be directly deposited to your bank account. If you have not yet signed up for a direct deposit, you can do so by completing the required information on the Student Accounts tile. The Spring 2020 semester has already ended, can I still complete a FAFSA? Yes. We advise that you complete the 2020-21 version so that you can be considered for other aid for the upcoming academic year. I was not enrolled at NC State during the Spring 2020 semester. Can I request a CARES Act Emergency Grant? No, you must have been enrolled at the time of the disruption to request assistance. If you believe you have special circumstances, please contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (financialaid@ncsu.edu). Students enrolled in the summer may request a grant for the summer term. I lost my job as a result of the Coronavirus. Can I receive a CARES Act Emergency Grant to replace my lost wages? No. The grant cannot replace lost wages. However, if you are not able to meet expenses related to food, housing/rent, technology expenses, travel expenses, etc. due to the campus disruption caused by the Coronavirus, you may apply for a grant. My parents lost their jobs or reduced hours during the Coronavirus pandemic. I am worried I cannot afford to return to NC State. Can I apply for a CARES Act Emergency Grant for this reason? No, the funds are not intended for this purpose. However, please contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (financialaid@ncsu.edu) so that we can reconsider your financial aid application to determine if you might qualify for other types of financial assistance. What are some examples of technology expenses related to campus disruption caused by the Coronavirus? Some examples include but are not limited to: Expenses to purchase hardware or software to participate in online classes. Expenses related to obtaining reliable Internet and wifi access to participate in online classes. Expenses related to tutoring or course assistance to improve your experience and performance in online coursework. What are some examples of transportation expenses related to campus disruption caused by the Coronavirus? Some examples include but are not limited to: Additional travel expenses due to the disruption caused by the Coronavirus. For example, the purchase of a plane ticket to return home early from a Spring 2020 study abroad experience. Unexpected transportation expenses resulting from the disruption caused by the Coronavirus. For example, higher than anticipated fuel expenses due to making frequent trips home to meet the university move-out deadline. Additional Financial Assistance/Other Resources Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid – if your family’s financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your FAFSA, please contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (financialaid@ncsu.edu) to request a reconsideration. We will do all we can to assist you! Pack Essentials – emergency resources are available to NC State students not able to benefit from CARES Act Emergency Grants. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.