For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Please visit NEW "COVID Screening Check" when symptomatic, positive, or exposed. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home Patient Portal Quick Links Emergency & NurseLine Insurance Immunizations Make an Appointment UCR Health Schedule an Appointment Search UC Riverside Student Health Services Home COVID-19 Health Care & Services Making an Appointment Health Care & Services Primary Care Women's Health Dental Care Vision Care Travel Clinic Pharmacy Laboratory Emergency & After-Hours Care LiveHealth Online Patient Rights & Responsibilities Eligibility & Fees Students From Other UC Campuses Immunization Immunization Requirements How to submit UC Immunization Requirements Insurance Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Highlander Care Waive UC Ship Medical Care Assistance Fund Referrals Non-Emergency Medical Transportation About Us Contact Us Accreditation Where to Get Tested on Campus Pentland Hills Bear Cave Students and Employees Mondays and Tuesdays: 6:30 a.m. – 2:45 p.m. Wednesdays and Thursdays: 6:30 a.m. – 5:45 p.m. Fridays: 6:30 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Appointments preferred. Walk-ins welcome. Student Success Center Students and Employees Monday – Friday: 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Visit Campus Return for more information Employees must register with Color Appointments preferred. Walk-ins welcome. Off-Campus Testing Resources Clinic Updates COVID Screening Check UC Riverside students are required to fill out the COVID Screening Check to report: A positive COVID-19 test result Covid-19 symptoms (allergies and asthma are not considered COVID-19 symptoms for this report) Exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19 (exposed is defined as close contact with a known person for more than 15 minutes in a 24 hour period) Completion of your required COVID-19 test (required is defined as weekly testing for those with an approved exemption or deferral, those that are not up to date with their vaccine, or are approved for early return after exposure or infection. Visit screeningcheck.ucr.edu to report For more information visit Campus return COVID Screening Check COVID-19 Vaccines, Booster and Verification Fall 2022 COVID-19 Vaccination Requirements: To avoid a registration hold and to be able to attend mandatory orientation, students enrolled for Fall 2022 must upload proof of full vaccination or receive an approved exemption via the patient portal by April 18, 2022. Students that enroll after April 18, 2022, must upload proof of full COVID-19 vaccination upon completion of their Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) <br /> International Vaccines – We are only accepting International Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) identified by checked columns. For questions, email WHOEUL@who.int. Covid-19 Exemption Form Instructions Covid-19 Exemption Process Students may request and submit a medical exemption, disability exception, pregnancy deferment, or religious exception for the Covid-19 vaccine by visiting your patient portal and submitting the correct forms. Please watch the video above on where to locate the forms and how to upload. COVID-19 Vaccine FAQ Are vaccines mandatory for students to be on campus? Yes. As of July 15, 2021, UCR policy requires COVID-19 vaccination for all individuals learning, working, or living at UC locations this fall, or that are participating in-person in UC programs that may occur off-site (such as UC athletics programs or study abroad), with limited exceptions, accommodations, and deferrals. Are there exceptions to the vaccination mandate? The vaccination policy includes a narrow range of exceptions for individual medical reasons or religious beliefs. More information will be forthcoming for students seeking an exemption on medical, disability, or religious grounds; or deferral (based on pregnancy). We understand that not all students can receive vaccination. This makes it even more crucial that all who can be vaccinated are vaccinated. UC COVID-19 Vaccination Policy — Student Frequently Asked Questions What does it meant to be Fully Vaccinated with Booster (if eligible)? You are considered fully vaccinated if you have completed a primary series and are not eligible for a booster vaccine OR have completed your primary series and received your booster vaccine. If you received Pfizer-BioNTech Vaccine Dose schedule:A two-dose vaccine series. Doses are 21 days apart. When to get a booster:At least 5 months after completing your primary COVID-19 vaccination series. Which booster can you get:Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna (mRNA COVID-19 vaccines) are preferred in most situations. If you received Moderna (Must be 18 years old) Vaccine Dose schedule:A two dose vaccine series. Doses are 28 days apart. When to get a booster:At least 5 months after completing your primary COVID-19 vaccination series. Which booster can you get:Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna (mRNA COVID-19 vaccines) are preferred in most situations. If you received Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen (Must be 18 years old) Vaccine Dose schedule:A one dose vaccine series. When to get a booster:At least 2 months after receiving your J&J/Janssen COVID-19 vaccination Which booster can you get:Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna (mRNA COVID-19 vaccines) are preferred in most situations. Can I get a covid vaccine or booster on campus? Yes. SHS is offering Pfizer vaccines on Wednesdays and Moderna vaccines on Fridays. To schedule an appointment, please contact Student Health Services at (951) 827-3031. Please note there is a vaccine administration fee for your COVID-19 vaccine. You can also visit vaccines.gov to find a local vaccination site. Can I get a vaccine somewhere else? Yes. Contact your primary care physician (PCP) or visit vaccines.gov to find a local vaccination site. Once I get vaccinated, do I still have to get COVID-19 testing? Visit Campus Return for the latest information about required and recommended testing for UCR students and employees. Once I get vaccinated, do I need to show proof to UCR? Yes. You are required to upload your proof of vaccine completion to the Patient Portal Are vaccines safe? Yes. Please visit the California Department of Public Health for further details. Will the University accept internationally approved vaccines even if not authorized or approved in the United States? No data is available on the safety or efficacy of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine currently authorized in the US after receipt of a non-FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. The World Health Organization (WHO) has developed a process for assessing and listing unlicensed vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics during public health emergencies. Through that process, a number of vaccines not available in the United States have received Emergency Use Listing (EUL). A document summarizing the status of a wide range of international vaccines can be found online on the WHO’s website. If the mandate is adopted, the University will, consistent with CDC and CDPH guidance, accept proof of vaccination with any international vaccine that has been authorized for emergency use by WHO through the EUL process. People who have completed a COVID-19 vaccination series with one of these vaccines do not need additional doses with an FDA-licensed or -authorized COVID-19 vaccine, at least initially (but may be subject to subsequent booster requirements). Those who are partially vaccinated or vaccinated with a vaccine not licensed or authorized by FDA and not authorized by WHO will be required to receive an FDA-licensed or -authorized vaccine no less than 28 days after their last international vaccination. In the interim, they will be subject to special safety measures, like quarantine, frequent asymptomatic testing, and more extensive masking requirements. I was vaccinated in [Canada][the UK][Other], where the government increased the time between first and second vaccines to [longer than US labeling]. Do I have to be revaccinated? No. If you have proof of completing a series of any FDA-licensed or FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine consistent with your country’s implementation, you will be considered to have complied with the vaccine mandate. I cannot come back to campus 3-4 weeks before school starts, and I can’t access any vaccine in my country. Will I be allowed on campus? Yes. You will be allowed on campus but will be referred to a vaccine site to get vaccinated immediately unless you qualify for a University-approved exemption or exception. Until you are fully vaccinated, you may be subject to special safety measures, like quarantine, frequent asymptomatic testing, and more extensive masking requirements. Campus Return Visit the Campus Return website for the latest COVID-19 news and updates from the UCR campus, as well as for access to testing, vaccine, and other resources. Website: campusreturn.ucr.edu Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Visit the CDC website for the latest COVID-19 fact sheets and guidance from the federal government, as well as access to vaccine and testing resources. Website: cdc.gov Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Contact CAPS for confidential mental health services, including virtual individual, couples', and group therapy sessions. Website: counseling.ucr.edu Phone: (951) 827-5531 Fax: (951) 827-2015 Riverside University System Public Health Visit the public health website for the latest COVID-19 news from Riverside County and for access to testing and vaccine resources. Website: rivcoph.org/coronavirus The Well Reach out to The Well to request a COVID-19 wellness kit. Website: well.ucr.edu Email: thewell@ucr.edu Instagram: @thewellucr All visitors, employees, and students must wear a face mask at SHS — even if fully vaccinated Masks are still required in specific work areas, such as those working indoor childcare, youth settings, health care facilities, or while using public transit. Masks must be made of tightly woven fabric or nonwoven materials of at least two layers Must cover nose and mouth Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3031 email: health@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Student Health & Wellness Services Case Management Counseling & Psychological Services Recreation Student Disability Resource Center The Well Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel