Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance ACADEMIC ASSISTANCE Missing Classes for Personal Emergencies: Students may need to miss class due to personal emergencies such as being hospitalized or being in a car accident. The Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students can assist students with documented emergencies by contacting professors on behalf of the student. For more information, please call the Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students or complete the Request Assistance Form. Failing Classes: Students may experience academic difficulties due to inadequate time management, poor study skills, learning disabilities, social distractions, substance abuse, or psychological problems. If you are having academic problems, contact the Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students to to discuss options to improve your academic performance. Unable to Complete an Academic Term: Sometimes the most unexpected, challenging life events can occur at the end of the semester, just in time for completing final projects and taking exams. If this happens to you it may be best to consider requesting an incomplete grade option in a course. Your professor has sole discretion in this decision. He/She may request that the Vice President and Dean of the Students verify the need for the incomplete. The Vice President and Dean of Students can also assist in making the request to the faculty if the student is unable to do so. In order to receive an incomplete, you must be passing the class. Remaining course work must be completed by the end of the term of the next semester you are enrolled. For more information, contact the Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students. Withdrawing From School: Some students find that due to the length of their recovery or impact of their personal emergency they are unable to make-up course work missed during the semester. In these cases, student may decide to withdraw from the Institute. The Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students can assist students in navigating the withdrawal process. Report a Grievance: The Office of the Provost is the main contact to report violations of the "Dead Week" policy or other grievances. See the Office of the Provost web site for more information. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE The Office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students offers emergency loans through the Dean Griffin Hip Pocket Fund. These loans are interest free and can be used for academic or personal matters. For more information, complete the Request Assistance Form. The Financial Aid Office offers Emergency 30-Day Loans to students who need short-term assistance in paying tuition and fees, or cash loans up to $1,500 (not both). These loans are interest free, but do have a service fee assessed at the time of the delivery of the loan funds. The loan requires a cosigner. Students cannot borrow in successive terms of enrollment. For more information visit the Financial Aid web site. MEDICAL/PERSONAL ASSISTANCE Services are available on campus to assist students with personal, medical, and emotional concerns. For more information about these services contact the Georgia Tech Counseling Center, Student Health Center, Women's Resource Center or the Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students. For students who are in need of meals, Klemis Kitchen is a free food pantry that all students can access to get meals, snacks and non-perishable goods. Many of the meals are provided by Campus Kitchen at Georgia Tech working with GT Dining. All food handling and preparation adheres to federal and Georgia Tech standards. Klemis Kitchen is accessible by Buzzcard 24/7. Students interested in gaining access to the Kitchen should contact steve.fazenbaker@gatech.edu. For more information visit the STAR web site (star.studentlife.gatech.edu). Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login