Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Search Academics Finances Financial Aid Scholarships Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Travel Registration Withdrawal Policy About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad Academics Finances Financial Aid Scholarships Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Travel Registration Withdrawal Policy About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Home Students Finances AAA Finances Academics Finances Financial Aid Scholarships Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Travel Registration Withdrawal Policy With careful planning, studying abroad can be affordable! Interested students should meet with a study abroad advisor before discussing financial aid options with the Office of Student Financial Assistance and Employment. How Much Does It Cost to Study Abroad? The cost of studying abroad varies depending on the type, length, and location of the program. Each program page shows the estimated costs of the program and what is included in the program fee, if applicable. Below is a summary of the types of costs you can expect from each type of program. UPrograms Students participating in UPrograms pay regular UM tuition. In addition, students pay a program fee to cover housing and program activities. Students must also budget for passport, visa, transportation, books, personal expenses, and travel. Total program costs range from $3,000 less than a semester on campus at UM to $3,000 more than a semester on campus at UM, depending on the cost of living and the duration of the program. UM Partner Programs Students participating in semester or year exchange programs pay regular UM tuition. Housing is paid directly to the host university or housing provider, and meals are typically budgeted according to eating in cafeterias, cooking meals at home, or eating at restaurants. Therefore, the housing and meal costs vary depending on the location of the host university. Students must also budget for passport, visa, transportation, books, personal expenses, and travel. Total program costs range from $3,000 less than a semester on campus at UM to $6,000 more than a semester on campus at UM, depending on the cost of living and the duration of the program. Faculty-Led Programs Students on faculty-led programs pay regular, per credit UM tuition in addition to their regular spring and fall term charges. In addition, students pay a program fee to cover costs of the program such as housing, group travel, entrance fees and tours, and group meals. Students must also budget for passport, visa, transportation, books, personal expenses, and travel. Summer UM Partner Programs Students participating in summer programs at partner institutions pay regular, per credit UM tuition in addition to the regular spring and fall term charges. In most cases, housing and meals are paid directly to the host university or housing provider. In some cases, students pay a program fee directly to UM to cover housing expenses. Students must also budget for passport, visa, transportation, books, personal expenses, and travel. Non-UM Programs Students who choose to study abroad on a non-UM program pay a $1,000 fee during each semester of the program. This charge will appear on the student’s account after the proper forms have been submitted. The Non-UM program form is found here. Students then pay their study abroad program costs directly to the organization or institution. Personal Expenses Personal expenses such as local transportation, entertainment, communication, and laundry depend on the program length and location. Student expenses will vary according to individual spending habits and travel. Expenses may also increase or decrease depending on the exchange rate at the time of study, and can dramatically affect the cost of studying abroad. For information on exchange rates, visit www.xe.com or www.oanda.com. Passport and visas fees should also be considered when planning your study abroad. For more information on passports and visas, please click here. Will I Be Able to Use My Financial Aid Abroad? Students participating in a UM study abroad program will be able to use their financial aid for the program. You will be charged full tuition on your tuition bill for the semester during which you will be abroad, so your aid package will not be affected. While overseas, if you have specific questions, you should contact the Office of Financial Assistance Services directly at ofas@miami.edu. The University of Miami does not offer financial aid for students attending institutions under a non-UM study abroad program. What if something changes after I am accepted and I do not study abroad? You may be financially responsible for the program; this depends on the type of program, and how far in advance of the program start date you withdraw. You can see the full withdrawal policy, timeline and fees here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Study Abroad Dooly Memorial Classroom Building 1111 Memorial Drive, Suite 125 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3434 305-284-3434 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices