Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Preferred or Non-Legal Name While a person’s legal name is used by default, NC State University recognizes that, as a community, many of its members use names other than their legal names to identify themselves. As long as the use of this different name is not for misrepresentation, the university acknowledges that a preferred name can and should be used wherever appropriate in the course of university business and education. Students may choose to identify themselves within the university community with preferred first, middle and/or last names that differ from their legal names. The preferred name will appear instead of the legal name in many university systems and documents as noted below. Individuals are free to determine the preferred names by which they want to be known within the university community. However, inappropriate use of preferred name by an individual will result in removal of the preferred name from that individual’s record. Inappropriate use includes names that attempt to avoid legal obligation, misrepresent the individual, harass, threaten or are otherwise objectionable. Preferred names will be used or made available in the following systems and records: Campus Directory NC State Google Apps – Display Name (includes Gmail, Drive/Docs, Google+) MyPack Class and Grade Rosters (for students and employees taking courses) Learning Technologies (including WolfWare, Moodle, Zoom, Mediasite) Most MyPack Student Center navigation pages Wolfpack One Card General mailings Official/Legal names will continue to be used on official University records, including but not limited to the following: Legal documents and reports produced by the University Student Account Statement (bills) Financial Aid and Scholarship documents Transcripts and diplomas Enrollment Verifications Student employment documents Employment Verifications Employment documents Paychecks, W2s, and other payroll documents Benefits enrollment Frequently Asked Questions What is a preferred/non-legal name? A preferred/non-legal name is a name that you can designate to be used on certain University-related records or documents in place of your legal name. It is a name that you wish to be known or identified by, and is different from your legal name. How do I set my preferred name? For students, you can update your preferred name in MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Personal Information tile > Select the ‘Preferred Name’ line > Edit the ‘First Name’ box > Select ‘Save’ For employees, updating your directory listing with a preferred name will carry the preferred name to your Gmail account and other areas listed above. Visit the form to Update Your Directory Listing (Faculty/Staff), and log in with your Unity ID and Password to complete the update. What are the guidelines for setting preferred names? Can it be whatever I want? You may designate a preferred first name in the MyPack Portal. Updates to your middle and/or last name must be completed in the Office of Registration and Records, 1000 Harris Hall. Generally, you can set a preferred name to any name, but the University reserves the right to delete a preferred name if it is used inappropriately. Inappropriate use includes names that attempt to avoid legal obligation, misrepresent the individual, harass, threaten or are otherwise objectionable. Do I have to provide and set a preferred name? No. Using a preferred name is entirely optional. Can I delete my preferred name? Yes. If you have designated a preferred name and later decide that you would prefer to use your legal name on all records, you can do so in MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Personal Information tile > Select the ‘Preferred Name’ line > Select the ‘Delete’ button > Select ‘Save’ How do I correct or change my legal name at the University? You can change your legal name on University records by completing and submitting the Name Change/Marital Status Change Request Form to the Department of Registration and Records. You will need to present official documentation that shows your legal name. Do NOT submit this form or any official/legal documentation via email. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.