Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Studio Art Department of Studio Art Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Studio.Art.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Back to Top Nav Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Back to Top Nav Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Back to Top Nav Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Back to Top Nav Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links Back to Top Nav People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship Share Apply for an Internship Apply to be an Intern 2020-2021 Studio Art Internships Each year the Studio Art Department hires five (5) graduating seniors to be Studio Art Interns during the following academic year. Candidates for Studio Art internships must major or minor in Studio Art. Majors have priority, should candidates have equal qualifications. Currently the internship is only available to Dartmouth graduates. Interns assist instructors in all phases of classroom activity; monitor sculpture, printmaking and photo studios; serve as mentors for Studio Art students; attend one general faculty meeting per term in addition to other required meetings. There are two (2) intern positions available for the summer, and five (5) intern positions available for fall, winter and spring terms. Interns receive $5,000 per term. Additionally, interns are provided with studio space and privileges to use department facilities. The position is for 37.5 hours per week. Interns' schedules vary every term depending on department needs. To provide consistent support for any area (but especially in architecture, photography, and printmaking), interns may be assigned as TA in one area throughout the year. With faculty consent, they would still have access to all areas for their own work. During the application process, students are encouraged to mention areas they are skilled in. If interns are assigned to areas in which they have had no experience, the expectation would be for them to learn as much as possible so they could be of more help in subsequent terms. Interns have time off during College breaks. They return to work several days before a new term begins in order to assist in set-up classrooms/studios. Interns are required to participate in up to a week of cleaning days after classes end. If you are interested in becoming a Studio Art Intern, and willing to fulfill all of the various responsibilities of the position, please email a one-page letter of interest and your current resume to: kelly.l.thompson@dartmouth.edu Your letter should state why you would like to be an intern, which terms you would be interested in, and your qualifications to perform all aspects of the job. The Intern Selection Committee will interview applicants on Wednesday 2/19. Your appointment time will be sent to you via email. When positions are filled, you will be notified by correspondence to your HB. *** DEADLINE TO APPLY: by 5 p.m. on Thursday, February 13, 2020. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Dartmouth Studio Art Department Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback