Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Student Accounts & Receivables Financial Services Search form Search Home About Contact Us Meet Staff Student Accounts & Receivables Billing eBill Navigation Billing Cycle Late Fees Delegates » Account Charges Departmental Charges Payment Options Online Mail In Person Delegates » Paying as a Delegate Returned Checks History International Payment Plans Payment Plan 529 Plans Resources All Forms Student Forms Sponsor Forms Consent to Conduct Business Electronically Student Financials Responsibilty Statement FAQ Payment Questions Nelnet Payment Plan Payment Delegate Questions Loans Perkins Loan Information Loan Rehabilitation Loan Consolidation Deferments & Cancellations Entrance and Exit Interviews ECSI Information and Communications Tutorials International Student Guide to Glacier Tax 1098-T IRS Information » International Students Insurance Guide to Glacier » International Student Services » Tax Reporting / 1042-S Sponsors Optional Campus Fees Optional Campus Fees Online Instructions Optional Campus Fees FAQs Outside Scholarships » Holds Refunds Refund Policy Financial Aid Refunds Other Refunds Direct Deposit Departmental Refunds Menu Home About Contact Us Meet Staff Student Accounts & Receivables Billing eBill Navigation Billing Cycle Late Fees Delegates » Account Charges Departmental Charges Payment Options Online Mail In Person Delegates » Paying as a Delegate Returned Checks History International Payment Plans Payment Plan 529 Plans Resources All Forms Student Forms Sponsor Forms Consent to Conduct Business Electronically Student Financials Responsibilty Statement FAQ Payment Questions Nelnet Payment Plan Payment Delegate Questions Loans Perkins Loan Information Loan Rehabilitation Loan Consolidation Deferments & Cancellations Entrance and Exit Interviews ECSI Information and Communications Tutorials International Student Guide to Glacier Tax 1098-T IRS Information » International Students Insurance Guide to Glacier » International Student Services » Tax Reporting / 1042-S Sponsors Optional Campus Fees Optional Campus Fees Online Instructions Optional Campus Fees FAQs Outside Scholarships » Holds Refunds Refund Policy Financial Aid Refunds Other Refunds Direct Deposit Departmental Refunds Search Search form Search Home Resources Loans Deferments & Cancellations Perkins Loan Information Loan Rehabilitation Loan Consolidation Deferments & Cancellations Entrance and Exit Interviews ECSI Information and Communications Deferments & Cancellations Perkins Loans are eligible for deferments and cancellations depending on the terms of your promissory notes. Deferments may be granted if you return to school to seek a degree and are enrolled at least half time. You may download a deferment form » to take to your current school's Registrar's office for completion. Please read all instructions carefully. If the deferment form is filled out incorrectly, it will be returned to you causing a delay in the processing of the deferment. The billing process cannot be stopped until the appropriate official certification has been received. Certain types of employment qualify the Perkins Loan for deferment and cancellation. Depending on the terms of your promissory note, payments can be deferred for up to 12 months at a time. Please note that certain criteria must be met. For detailed information go the ECSI website or contact ECSI by phone toll free at 1-888-549-3274. Common types of employment that qualify are: Teachers in designated low-income schools Teachers of the handicapped Teachers of math, science, and bi-lingual languages Staff members in a qualified pre-kindergarten or child care program if qualifying service includes or begins on or after August 14, 2008 Law enforcement officials Attorneys employed in a defender organization as established with section 3006(g)(2) of title 18, U.S.C. if qualifying service includes or begins on or after August 14, 2008 Those working with high-risk children from low-income communities Some volunteer programs Nurses and Medical Technicians. You must be state licensed to qualify. Firefighters for a local, State or Federal fire department or district if qualifying service includes or begins on or after August 14, 2008 Faculty of a Tribal College or University as defined in section 316 of title 20, U.S.C. if qualifying service includes or begins on or after August 14, 2008 Librarian if qualifying service includes or begins on or after August 14, 2008. You must have a master’s degree in library science and work in an elementary or secondary school that is eligible for assistance under part A of the title I elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, or work in a public library that serves a geographic area that contains one or more of such schools. Speech Pathologist. You must have a master’s degree and work exclusively with schools eligible for assistance under part A of the title I elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. A percentage of the loan will be canceled after each 12-month period of service is verified. Remember that a full 12 months of service must be completed to have the cancellation approved. The rate of cancellation is 15% each the first and second year of approved service, 20% each the third and fourth year, and 30% the fifth year. Refer to your Promissory Note and contact the Perkins office for other details. You may download the appropriate forms from the ECSI website » or contact ECSI. Military Deferment: Beginning July 1, 2006 Federal Perkins regulations changed to allow Military Deferments for borrowers with loan advances after July 1, 2001. This deferment applies only to borrowers serving on active duty and qualifying National Guard duty during a war, or other military operation, or national emergency. In addition, if your qualifying National Guard active duty service includes October 1, 2007 or begins on or after that date, the 180-day period following the demobilization date for your service may be deferred. Also, as of October 1, 2007, if you are serving on active duty military service on that date, or begin serving on or after that date for at least a 30-day period, you may defer making scheduled payments, and will not be liable for any interest that may accrue, for up to 13 months following the conclusion of your service and initial grace period if you are a member of the National Guard or other reserve component of the United States Armed Forces, or a member of such forces in retired status. Military Service Cancelation: Schools must cancel up to 50% of a Perkins Loan if the borrower has served a period of full-time active duty in the Armed Forces (that is, the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard), the National Guard or the Reserves. The service must be in an area of hostilities or an area of imminent danger that qualifies for special pay under Section 310 of Title 37 of the U.S. Code. The cancellation rate for every complete year of qualifying service is 12.5% of the original principal loan amount. Please access the cancelation form by using the above “deferment form” link and then scrolling down to “ECSI Forms, Cancellation.” For qualifying full-time Military Service in the Armed Forces in an area of hostility if that service includes or begins on or after August 14, 2008 you are entitled to have up to 100% of the original principal of your Perkins Loan cancelled if the area of hostility qualifies for special pay under Section 310 of Title 37 of the U.S. Code. Again, please access the cancellation form by using the above “deferment form” link and then scrolling down to “ECSI Forms, Cancellation.” For more information about these Military Deferments and Cancelations please go to the ECSI website at ecsi.net/militarydef or contact ECSI by phone toll free at 1-888-549-3274. Contact Information KU Student Accounts & Receivables 1246 West Campus Road, Room 20 Lawrence, KS 66045 stu.account@ku.edu 785-864-3322 What would you like to do? How do I view my bill? The University of Kansas does not mail paper invoices; instead you will be notified by email that a new eBill has been generated. To obtain your eBill, login to Enroll & Pay, select the Student Financials Tile, select Account Services, and then select Print or View a Bill What are my payment options? PAY ONLINE through Enroll & Pay with eCheck, Bank Wire or credit card (VISA, MasterCard, Discover, or American Express) Mail in a personal check, cashier's check or money order to the above address. Pay in person with check or money order. In person payments can be put into the drop box located on the loading dock behind Carruth O'Leary, on the east side of the buliding. Please include your name and KU ID Number, and put your payment inside of an envelope. A payment plan4 through Nelnet is another option. There is a deadline each semester to enroll. Payments must be made by the 1st of each month to Nelnet to avoid late fees. This plan is not for past due balances owed to KU. How do I sign up for direct deposit? Sign up through Enroll & Pay by selecting the Student Financials Tile and then clicking the Direct Deposit link from the left-hand menu, OR fill out a Direct Deposit Authorization Form (pdf) and bring it to KU Student Accounts & Receivables. What if I want to appeal a late fee? Go to the KU Registrar’s home page and complete an online Fee Petition under the “Tuition & Fees” link How do I access my 1098-T tax form? In Enroll & Pay select the Student Financials Tile, select Account Services, and then select 1098-T. The first time you retrieve a 1098-T electronically, you (or your student) need to read the 1098-T consent agreement, then click the green “submit” button. To Do Checklist Sign up for Direct Deposit. This is University policy. Refunds will be delayed if a direct deposit account is not on file. Set Up Delegates. A delegate will have access to designated information in your account and allows KU to discuss your account with the designated individuals. This could be a parent/guardian, spouse, or another designated individual. 1098-T Reporting. Provide your Social Security Number to the Registrar's Office for 1098-T tax purposes. Failure to do so may result in a fee assessed to you by the IRS. Keep Your Contact Information Updated. Log into Enroll & Pay > Personal Details. Related Information Financial Services » Help Center » University Registrar » Financial Aid & Scholarships » Student Housing Dept » Payment Plan » ECSI » Admissions » International Office » Emergency Aid Network » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Student Accounts & Receivables stu.account@ku.edu 785-864-3322 1246 West Campus Road, Room 20 The University of Kansas Lawrence, Kansas 66045-7505 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login