Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs About Us The Office of Student Affairs offers services and programs to support students as they progress through medical school. Sub Navigation In This Section Policies Support Offices at Alpert Together with the Offices of Medical Education and Diversity and Multicultural Affairs, OSA supports students across all aspects of their lives. Office of Medical Education Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Student Resources for COVID-19 Visit the student hub for COVID-19 for information on volunteer activities, wellness programs, and advocacy opportunities. More information About Us The Office of Student Affairs offers services and programs to support students as they progress through medical school. Welcome to the Warren Alpert Medical School and to the Office of Student Affairs! We look forward to sharing in your medical school journey with you. Our goal is to provide you with a supportive learning environment, offering the advising and support that you need to grow as a future physician. Your well-being and overall wellness are of utmost importance to us, and we are committed to supporting you throughout your training. Please do not hesitate to reach out to any of us with any questions about student life at Alpert Medical School. Services & Programs Academic Support OSA coordinates a range of academic support services - from course and exam preparation to one-on-one learning skills consultations. Visit Page Open details for Academic Support Longitudinal Mentoring Faculty mentors help students maintain a balanced, long-term perspective while they are immersed in the MD program. Visit Page Open details for Longitudinal Mentoring Career Development The Office of Student affairs provides career counseling and advising to all medical students through its career development program. Visit Page Open details for Career Development Our Mission The mission of the Office of Student Affairs is to support our medical students in their development as a community of individuals who are thriving personally and professionally. To advance this goal, we aim to support an open, caring, and inclusive learning environment at the Medical School and its affiliated teaching sites, to serve as an accessible and responsive resource for our students, and to promote the personal, academic, and career development of our students. Our Vision Engaged, empowered, and supported students develop into successful, professional, and compassionate physicians. Staff Roxanne Vrees, MD Associate Dean for Student Affairs Roxanne_Vrees@brown.edu Rory Merritt, MD Assistant Dean of Student Affairs for the Learning Environment Rory_Merritt@brown.edu Alex Morang, MA Director of Career Development alexandra_morang@brown.edu 401-863-1616 Career Development Website Kelly Holder, PhD Chief Wellness Officer kelly_holder@brown.edu Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Kelly Whalen, MS Assistant Director of Student Affairs kelly_whalen@brown.edu 401-863-5073 Career Development Website Janice Viticonte Coordinator, Career Development janice_viticonte@brown.edu 401-863-1641 Career Development Website Lorrie Gehlbach, PhD Learning and Accessibility Specialist lorrie_gehlbach@brown.edu Patty Vescera Operations and Student Affairs Manager patricia_vescera@brown.edu 401-863-3350 For general inquiries, please email us at medstudentaffairs@brown.edu. Support Offices at Alpert Together with the Offices of Medical Education and Diversity and Multicultural Affairs, OSA supports students across all aspects of their lives. Office of Medical Education Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Student Resources for COVID-19 Visit the student hub for COVID-19 for information on volunteer activities, wellness programs, and advocacy opportunities. More information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Us Open details for About Us Bookmark this Page