Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports CURE2 Emergency Grants The Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSA), part of the 2021 Consolidated Appropriations Act, include coronavirus relief measures for higher education institutions and their students. CRRSA provides funding for emergency grants, called COVID University Relief HEERF II (CURE2) Emergency Grants, that assist students in managing educational expenses or emergency costs that have arisen due to COVID-19. Priority is given to students with exceptional needs. CURE2 Emergency Grants will be released directly to students for qualifying expenses such as tuition, fees, food, housing, technology, childcare expense, medical expenses (including mental health) or for emergency costs due to the coronavirus. These grants will not offset expenses on your student account. Reporting and Disclosure Institutional Reports Student Reports Eligible Students Priority consideration is given to students who demonstrate exceptional need as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FASFA). A FAFSA submission is not required for consideration but could affect the amount or availability of funding. We estimate that 30,039 students meet these requirements for consideration for the 2020-21 academic year. Prior to May 11, 2021 guidance from the U.S. Department of Education suggests that students should hold U.S. citizenship or be Permanent Residents to be eligible for consideration for CURE2 Emergency Grants. According to the Department, under 8 USC 1611(a) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, students who are not U.S. Citizens are not eligible to receive funding from the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSA). As of May 11, 2021, revised guidance established eligibility for students not holding U.S. citizenship or permanent residency status. Students not eligible for support under the CURE2 Emergency Grant may apply for funding from the Pack Essentials Student Emergency Fund administered by DASA as long as funding remains available. Application Process CURE2 Emergency Grant Funding has been fully expended and the application is no longer available. Should additional funding become available, the application will be reopened. Complete the CURE2 Emergency Grant application. The application is available in MyPack under the Financial Aid tile in the 2020-21 academic year. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If you have already completed the FAFSA, you do not need to complete it again. If you have not yet completed the FAFSA, we recommend you complete the 2021-22 version. Enroll in direct deposit. Enroll, update or check your direct deposit enrollment by visiting the Student Accounts tile in MyPack. The CURE2 Emergency Grant application will be available until funds are expended. NC State understands the need to act quickly to address your needs. We will make every effort to review and respond to your application as quickly as possible. If you have questions, please contact our staff by emailing financialaid@ncsu.edu. A staff member will quickly respond and ensure you have all the information you need. Frequently Asked Questions How is the amount of the CURE2 Emergency Grant calculated? Priority is given to students with exceptional need. Financial need as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid in most cases with larger grant amounts for those with more need. While the maximum grant amount is $1,200, all requests are subject to review and approval based on available funding. Are international students or other non-US citizens eligible for CURE2 Emergency Grants? Not at this time. According to the U.S. Department of Education, under 8 USC 1611(a) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, students who are not U.S. citizens are not eligible to receive funding from the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA). Do I have to complete a FAFSA to be considered for CURE2 Emergency Grants? No. However, students with exceptional need will receive priority consideration and the grant amount is adjusted based on need as determined by the FAFSA. We encourage all students to submit the FAFSA to maximize their consideration. I was approved for a CURE2 Emergency Grant. How will I receive the funds? The funds will be directly deposited to your bank account. If you have not yet signed up for direct deposit, you can do so by completing the required information on the Student Accounts tile in MyPack. I lost my job or have reduced work hours because of the coronavirus. Can I receive a CURE2 Emergency Grant to replace my lost wages? If you are unable to pay for expenses related to tuition, fees, housing, food, housing, technology, childcare expense, medical expenses (including mental health) or for emergency cost due to the coronavirus, you may apply. My parents lost their jobs or reduced hours due to the coronavirus. I am not sure how to pay for my school expenses. Can I apply for a CURE2 Emergency Grant for this reason? If you are unable to pay for expenses related to tuition, fees, housing, food, housing, technology, childcare expense, medical expenses (including mental health) or for emergency cost due to the coronavirus, you may apply. You may also wish to contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (financialaid@ncsu.edu) so that we can reconsider your financial aid application to determine if you might qualify for other types of financial assistance. I received a CARES Act Emergency Grant in previous semesters. Can I also receive assistance from the CURE2 Emergency Grant program? Yes. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.