Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Student Affairs News Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Mission/Vision/Core Values Staff Contact Us Support Student Affairs Get Connected Impact Reports Resources Policies and Procedures For Parents For First-Year Students Safety/Police Emergency Management Diversity & Inclusion Clery Act Title IX at Tulane Services Accessibility Accommodations Living at Tulane Health/Wellness Case Management Victim Support Services Space Reservations/Event Planning Departments Campus Health Campus Recreation Case Management and Victim Support Services The Counseling Center Fraternity & Sorority Programs Gender & Sexual Diversity Goldman Center for Student Accessibility Housing & Residence Life Lavin-Bernick Center for University Life Multicultural Affairs New Student & Leadership Programs Parent Programs Religious Life Student Conduct Student Resources & Support Services The Well for Health Promotion Events Report A Concern/Get Help New Orleans 101 Explore New Orleans About Us Resources Services Departments Events Report A Concern/Get Help New Orleans 101 Request Info Visit Apply Give to Student Affairs News Information For... STUDENT AFFAIRS Our Work Starts With You Welcome to Student Affairs! Tulane University’s thousands of students represent all 50 states, 58 foreign countries, and every conceivable background and identity. They will navigate a robust academic program that offers dozens of majors and interact with hundreds of student organizations. And from admission to commencement, they will benefit from a diverse array of services offered by our Division. For each of these students, our Division will represent something different. To some, our work will seem invisible. To others, our offices and personalities will become familiar. While our efforts aren’t always at the forefront, they do form the backbone of our students’ time here. Our work is not one-size-fits-all. It honors complexity, understands difference, and seeks fairness. But while we’re variable in implementation, we are consistent in mission. At the heart of our work is a desire to connect our students with resources and programs that nurture their growth, challenge their perspectives, and expand their worldviews. Together, we offer housing, health, support, and counsel. We provide outlets for recreation, venues for understanding, and opportunities for resolution. And no matter what we’re doing, our work starts with the student. The Division of Student Affairs cannot provide the Tulane Experience, but it can—and will—provide thousands of them. Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Student Affairs Emergency Aid Request Form Please note that due to Hurricane Ida, Student Affairs received a large volume of emergency aid requests. We have a team that is reviewing and processing these 7 days a week, but it will likely take a while for a decision to be made. Please be patient as we review your application. You can contact bdorris@tulane.edu if you would like to request a status update. Select a CategoryQuick Links Report a Concern/Incident Move-In Information Fall Welcome Schedule Class of 2025 (Freshmen) Checklist Transfer Student Checklist Make a Gift Departments, Programs and Services Tulane Student Life Fraternities & Sororities Gender & Sexual Diversity Housing & Residence Life Lavin-Bernick Center (LBC) Multicultural Affairs New Student & Leadership Programs Reily Recreation Center Religious Life Health & Wellness Campus Health The Well for Health Promotion The Counseling Center The Health Center for Student Care Resources & Support Case Management Accessibility Services Parent Programs Student Conduct Victim Support Services Title IX at Tulane Get Involved! With a wide range of student organizations and leadership opportunities, there are many ways to get involved on campus. The WaveSync system (located in the Gibson portal) collects all student organization information in one place so you can find groups to join, events to attend and more. Peer mentoring and leadership programs make it easy to find your place in the campus community. Learn More About Involvement Opportunities Link to Tulane Home Page Student Affairs 6823 St. Charles Avenue Lavin-Bernick Center for University Life New Orleans, LA 70118 Office: (504) 314-2188 Fax: (504) 865-6772 studnaff@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University