Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events About Admission Undergraduate Continuing Education Graduate Programs Academics Catholic & Dominican Diversity Student Life Athletics Close menu Student Life Ask any Providence College student to describe life on campus, and you’re likely to get some variation of “close-knit.” We’re a big family and you’ll never get lost in the shuffle. When we have an event, everyone’s invited. And when you’re constantly surrounded by people from different backgrounds and with different interests, your experience becomes richer. Your interests and passions aren’t limited to your choice of major. And your education is not confined by the walls of a classroom. What you want to do — who you want to be — is formed by how you live. At PC, student life is self-defined and enhanced by shared traditions. And we sure have a lot of options to help you become, well, you. Explore Life at Providence College CAMPUS LIVING INVOLVEMENT & SERVICE SPIRITUAL LIFE FITNESS & WELLNESS ART & CULTURE CAREER EDUCATION There’s No Place Like Providence In real estate, the three most important things are location, location, location. In college, the same applies. Providence College’s 105-acre campus is a parklike oasis minutes from the heart of one of the Northeast’s most exciting cities. It’s home to the Friar family, meaning there’s always something going on and there are always friends to study or relax with. You’ll have your choice of study spaces and hangouts on campus, and there are always new experiences — food and fashion, culture and commerce — to be had in the city. For the ideal four-year campus experience, for the perfect night out or in, for the right opportunities and internships, there’s no place like Providence. Tour Campus Tour Residence Halls Providence, R.I. Campus Dining Return to Menu Get Involved With 120+ student clubs and organizations, hundreds of special events each year, and abounding opportunities to serve in the community, Friars are anything but bored. From hosting a show on WDOM radio to writing for the Cowl student newspaper, from performing sketch comedy to advocating for important causes, involvement and service are how students learn and grow outside of the classroom, making life-long friends along the way. Clubs & Organizations Community Service Leadership Programs Return to Menu Spiritual Life At Providence College, our Catholic and Dominican identity influences our approach to life. It means we seek the truth — intellectually, spiritually, and emotionally — and live in a respectful, supportive community. Campus Ministry is a hub of social life, service, and spirituality at PC. Students of all faiths or none participate in more than 25 different student-led ministries and retreats throughout the year. St. Dominic Chapel offers numerous ways to integrate liturgy and worship into daily life — including the weekly “Post-Mass Bash,” a time for food and fellowship. Wherever students are spiritually, they can count on the support of chaplains and fellow Friars as they mature in faith, hope, and love. What it means to be a Catholic & Dominican College Campus Ministry Peer Ministry Retreats Worship, Prayer, and Mass Schedule Return to Menu Fitness & Wellness Concannon Fitness Center Providence College’s state-of-the-art fitness center features 70 pieces of cardio equipment along with plenty of strength-training machines and free weights. Equipment is upgraded frequently, so you’ll always have access to the latest workouts and technology. The Concannon Fitness Center offers roughly 35 group exercise classes each week, including yoga, BodyPump, TRX, Pilates, indoor cycling/spin, and more. Personal training is also available to help individuals and small groups reach their goals. Intramural Sports Providence College’s most coveted athletic prize isn’t a trophy or a medal — it’s an intramural championship T-shirt. The Princeton Review named Providence College’s intramural program the best in the country, and it’s little wonder given that more than 2,000 students typically participate in at least one of our more than 20 intramural programs every year. Club Sports Club sports teams are non-varsity teams complete with staff coaches that compete against teams from other schools. Providence College sponsors more than 20 club teams, many of which accept players of all experience levels or none. Personal Counseling Center Counseling services are available to full-time undergraduate students at no charge. Counselors offer professional and confidential help with anxiety, depression, anger, grief, confusion, and other concerns. Student Health Center The Student Health Center’s providers offer comprehensive and confidential physical and mental health services at no charge for all full-time undergraduate students. Return to Menu Art & Culture The arts enrich life at Providence College, and an array of cultural events and programs broaden students’ perspectives as they grow in appreciation of their own and other cultures. PC hosts gallery exhibitions, theatrical performances, concerts, recitals, and more throughout the year. Additionally, arts clubs offer every student opportunities to practice skills and express themselves. More than 15 student-led cultural organizations reflect the diversity of the student body. Each of these clubs adds unique flavor (literally — there’s often food involved) to the campus community through events and programs students look forward to all year. The Center at Moore Hall PC Galleries Theatre, Dance, and Film Return to Menu By the Numbers 2 Miles from campus to all the dining, shopping, and entertainment offerings of downtown Providence 120+ student-led clubs and organizations 15 residence halls offer traditional, suite, and apartment style living 400+ students participate in peer ministry programs 53% of students play at least one intramural sport 96% of students participate in an internship/career experience prior to graduation Additional Resources Academic Services Bookstore Career Education & Professional Development Chaplain & Campus Ministry Dean of Students Disability Accommodations Health Center Institutional Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Orientation, Transitions & Leadership PC Dining Personal Counseling Plan a Visit Public Safety Recreational Sports & Fitness Residence Life & Housing Student Activities & Cultural Programming 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site