Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Need to reserve a room for a student group? Fill out the student group reservation form Room Reservation Policies for Registered Student Organizations PLEASE READ THE POLICIES BELOW BEFORE SUBMITTING THE REQUEST FORM Reservation Policies University classrooms may be scheduled for events occurring between the hours of 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. for the current semester only. During the first full week of classes, student group requests can only be confirmed 24 hours before the event. Rooms are not scheduled after the last day of classes, during finals weeks, university holidays, the Reading Days, during class breaks, or during breaks between semesters. Spring 2022 Semester Blockout Dates: Blockout Dates Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Monday, January 17 Spring Break Sat.-Sun., March 12 – 20 Final Exams / Semester Break Mon.-Wed., April 25 – May 17 Summer 2022 Semester Blockout Dates: Blockout Dates Memorial Day Monday, May 30 Juneteenth (observed) Monday, June 20 Final Exams Thur.-Fri., June 23-24 Independence Day Sat.-Mon., July 2-4 Final Exams/ Semester Break Sat.-Sun., July 30 – August 21 Fall 2022 Semester Blockout Dates: Blockout Dates Labor Day Monday, September 5 Fall Break Sat.-Tue., October 8 – 11 Thanksgiving Break Wed.-Sun., November 23 – 27 Final Exams/ Semester Break Tue.-Sun., November 29 – January 8 In order to reserve a room on campus, your student organization must be registered (each year) with Student Involvement in 4210 Talley Student Union. Requests are only accepted if submitted by a student officer listed on the Student Involvement Get Involved website. Buildings and rooms requested on the form are not guaranteed and you may be placed in a comparable room based on availability. In the event of a class need, you may be asked to relocate your event to a different space. Please submit your request at least 2 business days before your event. Student groups requesting last minute events should ALSO send an email directly to the Events Scheduler at eventsscheduler@ncsu.edu with the date of your event in the subject line. If you need additional time for set-up and tear-down, please account for that time in the start and end times of your request. Your reservation start time is the earliest time you may enter the room, and the end time is when everyone involved with your meeting or event needs to be out of the room. Room Use Policies Your group will be responsible for resetting furniture, cutting off all A/V equipment, and turning out overhead lights at the conclusion of the event. All chairs, desks, and equipment must remain in the room. If items are moved, please return them to their proper position. All classrooms come as-is. Your reservation only gives you access to equipment in your room, and you may not pull equipment from other rooms or common spaces. Any amplified sound, music, singing, etc. must not be disruptive to other events and classes nearby. Many buildings prohibit food. Please let the Event Scheduler know if there will be food at your event so that we can place you in the correct building. For those buildings that allow food, please clean up all trash and dispose of it in a dumpster outside the building. Do not prop open any exterior doors. Candles, lighters, incense, or any open flame are prohibited in all rooms. Use of campus facilities for solicitation, addresses, or public assemblies require written permission from Student Involvement in Talley Student Union AND must comply with university regulations. If serious complaints are filed because of misuse of rooms, Registration and Records may deny future requests for that organization. Evening and Weekend Policies Many of the campus buildings are locked on the weekends and after 5 p.m. on the weekdays. Registration and Records will provide any relevant information concerning building access and arrange for an electronic unlock as necessary, or provide details about checking out a manual key. Registration and Records does not own or distribute keys to classrooms or buildings. Please contact the Event Scheduler with any questions about your building’s closing times and/or key contacts. ONLY IN THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY: If you cannot gain entry to the building, the procedure for contacting Campus Safety to unlock doors is as follows: Call Campus Safety at (919) 515-3000. The submitter of the request MUST have a copy of the confirmation e-mail with his/her name in the email to present to Campus Police, along with photo ID verification. When the program is over, the request submitter must call and wait for Campus Police to arrive and lock the building. How to Reserve a Room for Your Student Organization To reserve a university classroom, students groups need to be registered each year with the Office of Student Involvement located in 4210 Talley Student Union. To reserve space in an academic classroom, please fill out and submit the Room Reservation Request form. Registration and Records only reserves university classrooms (designated as “110” spaces). Useful tips for requesting a classroom reservation: Use your Unity ID and password to log into the Astra system. Use an @ncsu.edu address as a contact for your request. To access the form from an off-campus network, you can use the Virtual Private Networking Service (VPN) provided by the Office of Information Technology Reservations will be confirmed for the current semester only. During the first full week of classes, Student Group requests can only be confirmed 24 hours before the event. Please see the chart below for a guide for when to submit requests for a specific term. Please note that events on weekdays must be scheduled later in order to facilitate course placement in academic spaces. ‘Submit Request/Processing Begins’ date does not mean to expect a confirmation that day. Initially, please allow up to five business days for a response. After the first week of processing, requesters should be notified within one to two business days. Term Submit Request/Processing Begins Fall 2021 (Weekend/Weekdays after 6:00pm) August 9, 2021 Fall 2021 (Weekday before 6:00pm) August 16, 2021 Spring 2022 (Weekend/Weekdays after 6:00pm) December 6, 2021 Spring 2022 (Weekday before 6:00pm) January 10, 2022 Summer 2022 May 9, 2022 For more on-campus room requests: University College Commons Contact Exploratory Studies University Housing Contact Housing and Conference Services DH Hill or James B. Hunt Jr. Libararies Contact NC State Libraries Carmichael Complex or Recreational Facilities Contact University Recreation Stewart Theatre or Titmus Theatre Contact Arts NC State Talley Student Union or Witherspoon Student Center Contact Rave! Event Services Have questions? Contact the Events Scheduler Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.