Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth The William Jewett Tucker Center Contact Us Facebook YouTube Instagram tucker.center@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Center Pastoral Counseling Ceremonial Services Support the Center Student Employment People Back to Top Nav Spiritual Life About Spiritual Life Religious Accommodations Holy Day Calendar Recognized Student Groups Buddhist Christian Hinduism Jewish Muslim United Campus Ministry Campus Ministers Grants Fellowships & Internships CROSS Fellowship Summer Internship Mindfulness Programs Tucker Center Mindfulness Groups Additional Mindfulness Opportunities Off-Campus Houses of Worship Buddhism Christianity Hinduism Islam Judaism Sikhism Resources Grief Resources Racial Justice Resources Back to Top Nav Multifaith Programs On-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Interfaith Living and Learning Community Multifaith Conversations Speed Stories Walks Clamantis Humans of Dartmouth Off-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Alternative Spring Break Project Preservation Back to Top Nav Sacred Spaces Rollins Chapel Renovations Prayer Services History Art & Architecture Labyrinth Hindu Temple The Roth Center Prayer and Meditation Rooms Back to Top Nav Events Upcoming Events Special Events Twilight Ceremony Voices of Faith MLK Multifaith Celebration Baccalaureate Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search About Spiritual Life Recognized Student Groups Buddhist Christian Agape Christian Fellowship Aquinas House Christian Science Organization Cru Edgerton House Integrare Latter-day Saints Student Association Logos Community Lutheran Campus Ministry Morning Glory Community Fellowship Orthodox Christian Fellowship United Church of Christ Hinduism Jewish Muslim United Campus Ministry Fellowships & Internships Mindfulness Programs Off-Campus Houses of Worship Resources Share Edgerton House Episcopal Campus Ministry Group Description We are a community of friends, seeking meaning and purpose in our lives and learning to follow in the Way of Jesus. Edgerton House, fondly known as the Edge, is our home, a safe and constant source of love, spiritual depth and inspiration in our often isolating and chaotic lives. Here we gather to break bread with one another, listen to stories, reflect on our lives, pray and seek to discover God's voice in all things. We believe that growing in faith is a life-long struggle, and we value this safe space to be honest with our doubts and questions. We bring both our hearts and minds to grapple with the religious, moral, ethical and social issues of our time. We strive to be an open community, welcoming all people as Christ and inviting them to share their unique gifts and insights, that we might learn together. Our faith sends us outward to cross the walls that divide people on campus and in our wider community, to listen and learn from those we serve. These experiences help us imagine possibilities for a world transformed and give us hope to live in expectation of the New Creation and to work for justice, freedom and peace. We look to the witness of faithful people in all times and places for guidance on our journey. Episcopal Campus Ministers: The Rev Dr Guy J.D Collins Email The EDGE or St. Thomas Church. The Kelsey Community The Kelsey Community is the newest addition to Edgerton House, an intentional residential community in which current Dartmouth undergraduates live, work and play together. Each term the residents construct a "Rule of Life" in which they affirm a shared commitment to participate together in worship, reflection and fellowship. Students agree to a covenant before taking up residence in which they commit to working to create community together. Any current Dartmouth student may apply to join The Kelsey Community, regardless of their religious beliefs. Activities Edgerton House Episcopal Campus Ministry, 14 School St., is open 24/7 for use by all Dartmouth students. Scheduled Meetings Mondays 9 p.m.: Theology on Tap, an open forum for discussion of a wide variety of theological ideas. No prior knowledge of theology necessary. Salt Hill Pub (7 Lebanon Street) Wednesdays 5:15 p.m.: Holy Eucharist with homily and singing preceded by 15 minutes of silent meditation. Open to students and the public. St Thomas Church Wednesdays 6 p.m.: Student Community Dinner, a home cooked meal and student fellowship with occasional guest speakers, sharing their personal journeys and addressing current religious, social, and moral issues. Edgerton House Small groups meet weekly for reflection on the Bible, our lives, and spiritual practices, helping to connect Christian tradition to life on campus. Outreach opportunities, social events, ecumenical programs and retreats are scheduled each term. Location The Edge is located at 14 School Street. Starting at Collis, walk west on Wheelock Street (toward the river) and take the first left onto School Street. We're on the left at the end of the second block, just before the parking garage. Look for a big brick and white house with a red door. It only takes a couple of minutes to walk here from the Green. "I have found community at The Edge like none other on campus and always look forward to spending time with this lovely group of people." -- Holly Langley '19 "The Edge is a ridiculous mix of laughter, silliness, kindness, welcome, wonder, warmth, and truly genuine people. Whether you come to sing, play, dance, eat, pray, discuss, adventure or just pop in to see what the ruckus is all about, you'll immediately meet the best friends of your life who can't wait to meet you." —Karen Orrick '11 Main menu Dartmouth College The William Jewett Tucker Center About About the Center Pastoral Counseling Ceremonial Services Support the Center Student Employment People Spiritual Life About Spiritual Life Religious Accommodations Holy Day Calendar Recognized Student Groups Buddhist Christian Hinduism Jewish Muslim United Campus Ministry Campus Ministers Grants Fellowships & Internships CROSS Fellowship Summer Internship Mindfulness Programs Tucker Center Mindfulness Groups Additional Mindfulness Opportunities Off-Campus Houses of Worship Buddhism Christianity Hinduism Islam Judaism Sikhism Resources Grief Resources Racial Justice Resources Multifaith Programs On-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Interfaith Living and Learning Community Multifaith Conversations Speed Stories Walks Clamantis Humans of Dartmouth Off-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Alternative Spring Break Project Preservation Sacred Spaces Rollins Chapel Renovations Prayer Services History Art & Architecture Labyrinth Hindu Temple The Roth Center Prayer and Meditation Rooms Events Upcoming Events Special Events Twilight Ceremony Voices of Faith MLK Multifaith Celebration Baccalaureate Ribbon Footer People The Rev. Dr. Nancy A.G. Vogele '85 Chaplain and Director Find Us Address The Tucker Center 6154 South Fairbanks Hall Hanover, NH 03755http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-3780 HB: HB 6154 Email: tucker.center@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook YouTube Instagram Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback