Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Mission, Vision, Goals Mission Statement The Division of Student Life is committed to enriching the academic, personal and professional growth of all Georgia Tech students. Vision Statement The Division of Student Life will lead our profession by providing innovative programs and services for the technological research university of the 21st century. Georgia Tech students will be strategically positioned to lead, influence, and contribute to their communities locally, nationally, and globally for the improvement of the human condition. Core Values As the Division of Student Life at Georgia Tech, we value the following: Excellence We believe excellence is achieved through collaboration, innovation, and an entrepreneurial spirit. We are committed to the continuous improvement of our programs, services, and the professional development of our staff. Integrity We model integrity by upholding the highest standards and principles that guide our profession - demonstrating professionalism, ethical conduct, and accountability in all programs and services. Leadership We prepare Georgia Tech students for the leadership roles they will assume in our global society. This is accomplished through intentional learning, sound academic inquiry and active reflection. We provide opportunities to develop the leadership competencies that will allow students to create meaningful change in their respective communities. Empowerment We enable students to take an active role in influencing institutional, local, national and global matters. We empower them to advocate for themselves, their community and the rights of others. Integrated Learning Learning is a transformative process that integrates knowledge and experiences both inside and outside of the classroom. In alignment with the Institute’s values we facilitate faculty-student engagement, encourage experiential learning, cultivate the arts, and embrace new technology - making every experience a learning opportunity. Inclusive Community Student learning occurs best in communities that value diversity and inclusion. We strive to create and support an inclusive community that encourages civility, compassion, discussion, debate, and expression where everyone is treated with respect and dignity. Total Student Experience The collegiate experience has a unique and significant influence on personal growth and development. We are committed to the development of the total student in all aspects of intellectual, personal, and professional growth in the environment in which they live, learn, work, and play. Goals In support of the Institute's goals and initiatives, the Division of Student Life works toward achieving the following goals: Enrich the student experience by creating a collaborative community that fosters a balanced and purposeful life. Prepare and engage students and staff to lead, learn, and live in a global society. Champion diversity, community and the celebration of tradition that promotes an inclusive environment. Challenge and empower students and staff to be responsible citizens who contribute to their communities and profession through leadership and service. Lead the profession of Student Affairs by advancing innovative programs, services and staff development in pursuit of institutional excellence. Click this link to download our Strategic Plan. Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login