Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News The Flourish, Winter 2021 Main content start Supporting the well-being of all students at Stanford We may be feeling extremely drained from a trying, and sometimes wonderful, transition back to campus, on top of the collective fatigue and trauma we still carry from the past two years. Add in the stress of the holidays and things can become much more challenging than we can handle alone. With this stress weighing down on us, it can be difficult to navigate these tough times. For this month’s edition, we want to focus on tools we can use to find connections within ourselves, keeping us grounded during whatever comes our way this winter. Through gratitude, self-soothing activities, and self-compassion, we can discover ourselves and take care to mind our needs as they change over time. In doing so, we give ourselves permission to open up to connecting with others and foster healthy relationships so that we can flourish in a community of mutual support. Downloadable PDF The Flourish, November/December 2021 The goal of this communication tool is to support all Stanford students and their well-being. Access PDF of the November/December Newsletter Let’s explore these areas together. Have you noticed it? Recognizing the Good. The bright green grass popping up through the swaths of brown foothills. It’s there if you look closely, emerging more vibrantly each day. Noticing the steady greening of the Stanford foothills is my current daily moment of gratitude. The reassuring change of the seasons fills me with content. It doesn’t solve the existential threat of the climate crisis, but it does afford me a daily moment of pause to inhale deeply and enjoy something that feels right in the world. Taking this moment of gratitude for nature pulls me out of an anxious circle of thoughts and grounds me. Jewish tradition calls this hakarat ha-tov, or “recognizing the good.” Some Jews mark these moments with a blessing as a way of lifting up the sacred in the mundane, the special in the ordinary, the gratitude in the taken for granted. What good will you recognize today? Rabbi Laurie Hahn Tapper, Office for Religious & Spiritual Life Office for Religious and Spiritual Life We were given 2 ears and only one mouth so for the benefit of all we ought to listen twice as much — Epictetus Take a moment to pause and check in with yourself. What does it look like to connect with yourself and those around you? How do you feel when you are connected with others? What does being fully present look like to you? When we are fully present, attending with all of our senses to the words and body language of another, indeed we are like the sun and others are able to bloom like a flower in the light of our presence. When we say: “Tell me more...” or ask questions like “How was that for you?” we invite people to explore themselves and make discoveries in real time, right before our eyes — their eyes pointing upward to scan their vast database of embodied memories to respond to our inquiry. People long to be truly seen. So many of us carry a nagging tension or angst because we feel like our [insert loved one] doesn't “get” us. Hip hop culture birthed the inquiry of truth: “You feel me bro?” Spot on, we all long to “feel felt” and “get gotten.” Listening and attending with our full presence helps others to feel seen, felt, gotten, remembered, loved, grounded in this ungrounding world. Our radical presence draws people to us like a sunflower to the sun. Donnovan Somera Yisrael, ‘89, Well-Being at Stanford Learn More In the Spotlight 50% of Bridge Peer Counseling sessions focus on relationships After more than a year in quarantine, seeking connection and maintaining good relationships feels more important than ever before. We need to establish caring relationships, be there for one another, and engage in meaningful conversations. The Bridge can help you connect to others and yourself when you are feeling adrift. For more information visit The Bridge Peer Counseling Center, or call 650.723.3392. Stanford Bridge Peer Counseling Post-Counsel Survey Fall 2021 Soothe...Recover...Mend...Build We’re still adjusting. We’re burned out from the long, fatiguing slog of the past two years. Maybe the excitement and energy of returning to campus has worn off, and now we’re feeling deep-rooted tired. Engage in some intentional self soothing. Find something easy to experience that brings you comfort, warmth and peace. Lean in to your being selves, relax the doing self, let yourself heal and your energy gradually return. When some energy has returned, build yourself a Self-Care Menu so you have a personalized collection of activities, places, and people that help you recover and move toward your flourishing self. Buil a Self-Care Menu Sleep Corner How sweet is a slumber, until it is not. When it comes to eating and sleep there are many nuances—it could be a matter of how you eat, what you eat, and/or perhaps when you eat. Has your caffeine gone up as the quarter’s gone down? Whether it’s coffee, alcohol, edibles, or smoking, many bioactive substances can disrupt your sleep cycle. Reflect on the role substances play in your life, and how your current pattern may be impacting your sleep. Set a caffeine curfew. Limit caffeine to at least 6 hours before you go to bed. This gives your body time to metabolize the caffeine, without impacting your sleep. Do you get indigestion? Fried, citrus, spice, chocolate, and many other foods can trigger heartburn or other conditions that disrupt sleep. Experiment with having these foods earlier in the day or replacing them with gentler options, like decaf herbal teas, or foods with naturally-occurring tryptophan and magnesium. The relationship between eating and sleep is complicated, but we know that many conditions and behavior patterns (shift-work, food deserts/swamps, chronic stress, skipping meals) can impact sleep. Having a sounding board can help you to explore what is going on for you. Consider scheduling a 1-1 nutrition session today The Flourish Return to the main page Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top