Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Student Affairs » Office of the Dean of Students Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About HSRC Read Our Blog Donate Textbooks and Course Materials Housing Emergency Housing Other Housing Resources OSU Parent Website Local, State, and National Resources ROTC Programs CONNECT WITH VETERANS AT OSU Community Calendar Contact Us Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Learn about OSU Assist, a new mobile crisis response team being developed at Oregon State Office of the Dean of Students Oregon State University currently provides primarily in-person and on-site learning, teaching, work, programs and activities. The Office of the Dean of Students has resumed in-person operations; masks are welcome but no longer required. You can connect with the Office of the Dean of Students by visiting the Student Experience Center Suite 206, emailing [email protected], or calling 541-737-8748. We are available weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. students faculty and staff parents and family The Office of the Dean of Students is dedicated to providing educational and developmental opportunities for students to make informed decisions that support their success at Oregon State University. The Office of the Dean of Students is comprised of many departments across the university. Please select an office below to learn more about the services and support their team provides. Academic Success Center The Academic Success Center (ASC) provides support and services to help all students achieve their academic goals. ASC programs help students develop learning strategies and time management skills to excel in their coursework and stay on track to graduate. Location: Waldo Hall, Room 125 Email: [email protected] Phone: 541-737-2272 Website Academics for Student Athletes The Academics for Student Athletes office provides academic and personal support to all student athletes at Oregon State University. We strive to create a collaborative environment with other campus departments that will help you achieve your potential for intellectual, social and personal development. Services include sport-specific academic counselors and priority class registration for student athletes, with guidance and advising from major department advisors as well as ASA academic counselors. Location: Beth Ray Center Phone: 541-737-1000 Website Associated Students of Oregon State University We believe a better campus, a better community, a better experience happens when we come together. You are a student. You have a voice. Make it known — apply to be on a committee or to volunteer, register for an ASOSU internship or attend one of our events. We also have resources to help students navigate their educational experience. Email: Contact List Phone: 541-737-6300 Website Basic Needs Center The Basic Needs Center (BNC) has a broad range of resources to assist students. BNC staff will work to help you find a solution if you need a laptop or textbooks; are worried about making your rent payment; need food assistance; or face other unexpected financial challenges. Location: Champinefu Lodge Email: [email protected] Phone: 541-737-3747 Website Center for Fraternity & Sorority Life The Center for Fraternity & Sorority Life aims to empower the OSU Greek community to strive for individual and organizational excellence. Services include advocating for the interests of the Greek community; supporting community development around multicultural competence; advising governing councils and chapters; and leading development programs. Location: Student Experience Center, Room 325 Phone: 541-737-5432 Website Cross Campus Strategic Initiatives Cross Campus Strategic Initiatives (CCSI) provides central advocacy and professional development for OSU’s academic advising and academic counseling communities. We provide training, resources, advocacy, expertise, and community-building opportunities for professional faculty and instructional faculty. CCSI Director, Jeff Malone, also serves as Project Manager for the University Student Success Committee (USSC). Location: Waldo Hall, Room 108A Email: [email protected] Phone: 541-737-0857 Website Disability Access Services Disability Access Services facilitates access to university programs and services for students with disabilities through accommodations, education, consultation and advocacy. DAS provides support to all Oregon State University students, including on- and off-campus students and students at OSU-Cascades. Phone: 541-737-4098 Website Military and Veteran Resources We believe in you and your ability to complete your next mission here at Oregon State University. We are here to assist all members of the Military Connected Community. We want to contribute to your success by helping navigate the requirements of higher education, find available benefits and services, and to connect you with other members of the community that are on the same path and facing the same challenges. Phone: 541-737-7662 Website OSU Assist OSU Assist is a multidisciplinary support team that will provide compassionate mobile crisis response and wraparound services for students facing mental health challenges or experiencing other forms of distress. Website Student Care Many students face difficult times during college; unexpected life events, personal crises, illness or injury, hospitalization, loss of a loved one, and mental health challenges are examples of challenges that can interfere with college success. Student Care is designed to help students learn and understand OSU policies and procedures, problem solve within the university community, and access referrals for personal matters or emergencies. Location: Student Experience Center, Room 206 Phone: 541-737-8748 Website Student Conduct & Community Standards The Student Conduct and Community Standards office strives to build and maintain living, learning and working environments that are inclusive, successful, caring, and safe. We serve students, student organizations, faculty, staff, and members of our neighboring cities. We utilize the Code of Student Conduct to communicate values-oriented expectations for behavior and to articulate processes and outcomes. Phone: 541-737-3656 Website Student Orientation The Office of Student Orientation serves as a campus leader in facilitating the transition process for new undergraduate students and families. The Office of Student Orientation organizes START and OSUWelcome for first-year and transfer students, programs that provides workshops and information on campus resources and the transition to campus. Phone: 541-737-7627 Website University Exploratory Studies Program University Exploratory Studies Program (UESP) is the academic home for students who are exploring their options before deciding on a major. UESP offers a comprehensive range of services to help students make informed decisions about their academic coursework and potential majors. Location: Waldo Hall, Room 102 Email: [email protected] Phone: 541-737-8144 Website Writing Center The Writing Center provides support for through multiple modalities including drop-in in-person help at the Undergrad Research & Writing Studio, Zoom appointments, and written feedback through our Online Writing Support (OWS). Our peer writing tutors can help with all aspects of the writing process from brainstorming and organization to questions of grammar and usage. Location: Valley Library, Second Floor (Main Floor) E-mail: [email protected] Phone: 541-737-5640 Website Contact our Team Community Wellness, Education & Safety Network First-Year Experience Live-on Residency Requirement Services by Learning Location Emergency Resources Policies and FAQs Election Resources Supporting Activism Contact Info Office of the Dean of Students Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-8748 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Instagram Academic Success Center Academics for Student Athletes ASOSU Office of Advocacy Associated Students of Oregon State University ASOSU SafeRide Basic Needs Center Center for Fraternity & Sorority Life Cross Campus Strategic Initiatives Disability Access Services Military & Veteran Resources New Student Programs & Family Outreach Student Care Student Conduct & Community Standards University Exploratory Studies Program Writing Center