Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports COVID-19 Information We understand that you probably have a lot of questions about how your upcoming semester will be impacted, and we want to do everything we can to help. If you are currently experiencing challenges due to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), we encourage you to visit the Pack Essentials website. We also have CARES Act Emergency Grant Funding available to qualified students, which provides resources to support students’ basic needs, including food, housing, financial, and educational security. CARES Act Emergency Grant Funds Available The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act includes the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) that provides emergency funding to students impacted by the campus disruption due to COVID-19. Find out more information Fall 2021 Information See important information from the university about the fall 2021 semester Click here We’re still here to help you in any way that we can. For the health and well-being of our staff, students, and visitors, we are complying with university directive to limit our in-person office capacity. Please see these frequently asked questions below about our office operations and important things to know about how we’re continuing to help you during these unprecedented circumstances. Operations & General Questions Is the Student Services Center open? Yes! While the Student Services Center is now open with limited capacity for in-person visits, you can still contact us by phone at 919-515-NCSU (6278) or email at studentservices@ncsu.edu. Visit our Contact Us page for more information. What are your hours of operations? We are still answering calls and responding to emails during our normal hours: Mondays – Fridays, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. It may just take us a little longer to get back to you, and we appreciate your patience during this time! I have documents to provide to the Student Services Center. How can I do so? Documents or forms can be sent to us via email at studentservices@ncsu.edu; please do not email documents that contain sensitive information such as credit card numbers or social security numbers. We also have a secure Document Drop Box located outside of our office doors in Harris Hall. Can I still order a transcript or diploma? Yes! Information about ordering transcripts and diplomas is available on our website. We are not currently accepting orders for transcripts via fax or sending transcripts via fax. Can I still receive an enrollment verification? Yes! Email us at studentservices@ncsu.edu for assistance. Registration and Academic Records Where can I view the Fall 2021 academic calendar? The academic calendar is available at go.ncsu.edu/academiccalendar. What resources do I have if I have questions about registration or advising for the semester? Your first point of contact should be your academic advisor or the Coordinator of Advising for your program or college. The list of Coordinators of Advising is available on our website. What resources are available for me to help me with an online learning format? Various offices and units around campus have developed resources to assist students with the transition to remote learning. You can visit the Keep Learning website for helpful tools and strategies for being a remote learner, as well as a list of other technology and instructional resources. Scholarships and Financial Aid Will I owe any of my financial aid back if I withdraw due to the current circumstances? Withdrawing from a term in which aid was received may result in the required repayment of unearned aid. The amount of aid to be repaid depends upon the withdrawal date. Typically, if at least 60 percent of the term is completed prior to withdrawal, no immediate aid repayment is required. Do I still have to repay my student loans that I used during this semester since I withdrew and didn’t finish? Yes. You must repay your student loan under the original terms of the promissory note, even if you do not finish the semester. I am a student with a Federal Work Study position on campus. What do I do during this situation? If your employer is able to establish remote working options for you, you may continue to work on the schedule agreed upon with your employer. If your employer is unable to establish remote working options for you, you are eligible for paid administrative leave until March 31, 2020. Arrangements after this date have not yet been determined. Tuition and Billing Will I receive a refund from housing and/or dining? Any decisions about refunds for housing and dining will be made by the UNC System after the immediate needs of safety and security are addressed. Will I receive a refund for my tuition and fees? Because classes will continue to be delivered, there will be no refund offered for tuition and fees at this time. Will my GI Bill or VA Education Benefits be affected by classes being transitioned to distance education? VA Education Benefits will not be affected by the transition to distance education classes due to COVID-19. Students receiving VA Education Benefits can contact the Veterans Education Benefits team at veterans-ed@ncsu.edu for additional help or clarification. Are bills still going to be posted and due as scheduled during this period of uncertainty? We will still be sending bills with the scheduled due dates. However, if you have extenuating circumstances and need a little longer to make a payment, please contact us and we will do what we can to work with you. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.