Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Readmission Any Undergraduate and Agricultural Institute student who fails to enroll for any Fall or Spring Semester will need to apply for readmission to continue their degree program. Requirements You are eligible to apply for readmission if you fall into one of the following categories: Former Undergraduate and Agricultural Institute students eligible to return to NC State University Suspended Undergraduate Students (additional action required) Former Undergraduates who obtained a degree and wishes to seek an additional undergraduate degree All students applying for readmission to NC State must pay a non-refundable, $60 Readmission Application Fee. Payment may be submitted through the online application, at the Department of Registration and Records or by mailing a check to Registration and Records (please include application number). Applications are considered incomplete until the fee is paid. Please make check or money order payable to NC State University and mail to: Attn: Readmission Coordinator Registration and Records 1000 Harris Hall Campus Box 7313 Raleigh, NC 27695 NOTE: Please be sure that all past due accounts and holds are taken care of before attempting the readmission application. We cannot process your application or readmit you with an outstanding hold. International Applicants: Only after you have been readmitted and any required appeals have been approved can you request a new visa document to return to NC State. Once you are eligible to enroll, please submit this I-20 request and supporting documentation to the Office of International Services. When completing the application please do not provide your ncsu.edu email if your account has been discontinued, as the e-mail address provided is where you will be notified of your readmission status. If you are having problems accessing the application, please clear your browser cache. Residency Determination All students applying for undergraduate readmission and requesting in-state tuition are required to complete the North Carolina Residency Determination Service (RDS) prior to completing the Readmission application. Complete the Residency Determination Service (RDS) Form You will need your Residency Certification Number (RCN) in order to complete your Readmission application. Important Application Dates Term Application Available Readmission Application Deadline Summer 1 2022 September 13, 2021 May 16, 2022 Summer 2 2022 September 13, 2021 June 23, 2022 Fall 2022 January 31, 2022 July 29, 2022 NOTE: These dates are subject to change based on the academic calendar. Refer to the Enrollment Calendar to see when registration begins. Summer and Fall applications are now open! Apply Here Readmission Eligibility Former Undergraduate and Agricultural Institute Students Students who have not enrolled in a Fall or Spring Semester and wish to return to their studies may apply for readmission. Students applying for readmission must be eligible to return to NC State and any institution attended during their break in enrollment. Applications and fees should be submitted prior to the deadline indicated above. Students who desire a change of curriculum can apply through the Change of Degree Application (CODA) upon readmission, except for Leadership in the Public Sector. The Leadership in the Public Sector (LPS) major, housed within the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, is an online degree completion program for students who have been away from NC State University for more than three years. It is not available for transfer via CODA. If you are interested in this program, please review the LPS Program website (https://spia.ncsu.edu/lps/) and contact the program advisor or director before readmitting into your previous major. Suspended Students For details on suspension and readmission, view the full regulation on Continuation of Undergraduate Enrollment (REG 02.05.01) Academic Suspension Appeals Enrollment Students on Academic Suspension may appeal to the Admissions Committee for readmission. Students will be directed to the appeal upon completing the readmission application above. Appeals will not be reviewed unless all documents are included. Please submit prior to the deadline indicated above. Contractual Readmission Academically Suspended students who have had a break in enrollment for at least 3 years may appeal for Contractual Readmission. Students who are contractually readmitted will be placed on Academic Warning and must maintain a 2.0 GPA on all coursework attempted after readmission. Failure to do so will result in permanent dismissal from the university. Students are encouraged to begin the Contractual Readmission process early. Colleges may have additional requirements or deadlines; students should consult with their college and/or academic advisor before starting the contractual readmission application. Contractual Readmission Checklist and Application Form For students applying for contractual readmission to the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, please visit the college’s website for additional information. Former Undergraduates Seeking an Additional Degree Students who have completed their undergraduate degrees and wish to return to pursue an additional degree must complete the application for readmission and complete the Readmission to Additional Degree form. The Readmission Application cannot be processed until the Plan Change Form has been completed and submitted to the Department of Registration and Records. Non-Degree Studies Students admitted into a non-degree seeking program should visit the Non-Degree Studies site for more information. Graduate Students If you are a returning Graduate Student, please DO NOT submit an application for readmission. Please refer to the Graduate School and the Graduate Handbook for more information. If you have further questions about readmission to NC State, please view the readmission rule on the Policies, Regulations and Rules site. Contact Us For more information or questions about readmission, please contact the Readmission Coordinator at readmission@ncsu.edu. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.