Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Basic Translational Research Program The Basic and Translational Research (BTR) Program is a longitudinal experience that includes didactic training and a mentored research experience. Sub Navigation In This Section Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Scholarly Concentrations Students in the BTR Program are encouraged to pursue independent study via the Scholarly Concentrations Program. Learn more Basic Translational Research Program The Basic and Translational Research (BTR) Program is a longitudinal experience that includes didactic training and a mentored research experience. The Basic and Translational Research (BTR) Program at the Warren Alpert Medical School links medical students with faculty and their research projects on the molecular basis and pathobiology of cardiovascular, blood, and pulmonary diseases and related conditions, and/or the outcomes of prevention and treatment of these diseases. Funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, the BTR Program is a longitudinal experience that includes didactic training and a mentored research experience, with a goal of promoting the career development of potential physician researchers. We encourage students participating in the BTR Program to also participate in the Scholarly Concentrations (SC) Program. For example, a student conducting research on the molecular aspects of atherogenesis may want to join the scholarly concentration in Aging. A student conducting research on the efficacy of a new drug-impregnated cardiac stent may want to join the scholarly concentration in Medical Technology and Innovation. However, participation in the SC Program is not required to participate in the BTR Program. Stipend First year medical students who are accepted into the BTR Program will receive a summer stipend of $4,471. The stipend will be distributed in one lump sum at the end of June. The summer stipend is not reportable by the University to the IRS, and students will not receive a W2 for these payments. According to the IRS, these funds are not taxable as long as they are used for "qualified tuition and related expenses" (tuition, books, fees, required supplies and equipment) associated with enrollment for degree seeking candidates. The student is expected to report any taxable income from the stipend support directly to the IRS. Students participating in the BTR Program are not eligible to receive any other concomitant summer funding if it is directly related to the T35 funded project. Citizenship/permanent residency must be met at the time of appointment. Program Timeline Year I Students review approved BTR project descriptions and contact the appropriate faculty member(s). Together, the student and faculty mentor develop a summer research project and construct a proposal to be submitted by the February deadline. Summer During the summer months between Years I and II, students engage in a 9-week research project and participate in a seminar series on core research topics, including the ethical conduct of research. (These didactic sessions will be open to all medical students, but required for BTR Program participants.) Year II Student participants will present a poster at the annual Summer Showcase in December. Students are encouraged to continue their research projects during the year, utilizing the Wednesdays that are set aside for self-directed learning. Students who are also participating in the SC Program will continue to attend concentration area meetings and events throughout the year. Year III Students are encouraged to continue their research project. Students should work with their faculty mentor to develop plans for continued research and/or manuscript preparation. Year IV Students are encouraged to continue their research project. Students will submit a final scholarly work (likely in the form of a scholarly manuscript) for evaluation. Application Process If you would like to apply to the BTR Program AND are also interested in participating in the SC Program, simply fill out the SC Program Application form and indicate that you are interested in BTR Program funding. Please follow all SC Program Application guidelines in terms of project descriptions, faculty letters of support, etc. If you would like to apply to the BTR Program ONLY, please fill out the Summer Funding Application form and indicate that you are interested in BTR Program funding. Please follow all Summer Funding Application guidelines in terms of project descriptions, faculty letters of support, etc. Contact Us Elizabeth O. Harrington Associate Dean for Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies 401-863-3281 elizabeth_harrington@brown.edu Allan R. Tunkel Associate Dean of Medical Education 401-863-1618 allan_tunkel@brown.edu Scholarly Concentrations Students in the BTR Program are encouraged to pursue independent study via the Scholarly Concentrations Program. Learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Basic Translational Research Program Open details for Basic Translational Research Program Bookmark this Page