Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner Main content start Sleep Soundly: A Closer Look at Melatonin There’s a high chance you know someone who takes melatonin supplements. But what is melatonin and how does it affect our sleep? Melatonin is a natural sleep hormone secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. Melatonin begins to be released around 2 hours before your bedtime in response to less light coming in through your retina. Melatonin’s primary function is to regulate the body’s sleep-wake cycle, promoting healthy sleep and orienting one’s circadian rhythm. Melatonin's relationship with sleep has led millions of people to take melatonin supplements as sleep aids. However, contrary to popular belief, melatonin is not a sleeping pill that makes you fall asleep instantly. If you were to take a sleep-inducing medicine (referred to medically as hypnotics) during the middle of the afternoon, you would likely fall asleep, despite how awake you felt before. If you were to take melatonin in the middle of the afternoon, this wouldn’t be the case. Rather than directly inducing sleep, melatonin tells your body that it’s night time and that it should start winding down, switching the brain from its “daytime functions” to its evening ones. For this reason, many people use melatonin ineffectively, and studies show that people in the US are taking twice the amount of melatonin they did a decade ago. When melatonin is produced in our brains, it is released in one trillionth of a gram amounts, while the smallest doses of over the counter melatonin supplements come only in milligram doses (1/1000th of a gram). The amount that actually reaches your brain is closer to natural quantities, but doctors still recommend taking between 1-3mgs a day, which is lower than what most users take. Studies are conflicted as to whether or not melatonin is effective in improving sleep. While some research indicates that melatonin improves sleep latency and lengthens overall sleep time, effects vary highly across individuals. Research is also lacking in the long term effects of melatonin use. Doctors say melatonin is often used by people to self-treat insomnia which could be stemming from larger medical issues such as anxiety or sleep apnea, and for this reason melatonin could delay individuals from receiving a diagnosis and more effective treatment for their underlying conditions. Furthermore, because melatonin is considered a dietary supplement, it is not closely regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), leading to a troublingly high variation in the content of melatonin products— one study found that 70% of the over the counter melatonin brands examined exceeded the quantity of melatonin in their pills from what their labels displayed by up to 478%. Up to 26% of the supplements also contained serotonin, a neurotransmitter that can have harmful effects in large doses. So far, medical research indicates that when used in the short term, melatonin is unlikely to do any harm. If you decide to use melatonin to improve your sleep, experts recommend starting with the smallest available doses— .5mg or 1mg— taken 30 minutes to an hour before bedtime. If, after a few days, you see no improvement in your sleep, you can gradually increase your dose. If you find yourself groggy in the morning, it is likely a sign that your dosage is too high for you. To avoid brands with impure or mislabelled products, you can look for a “Good Laboratory Practice” (GLP) or “Good Manufacturing Practice” (GMP) label, which indicate that the product has met federal quality standards for the advertised purity. Even if melatonin helps you fall asleep faster (sleep latency), there are many ways to improve your sleep routine and environment to promote better sleep quality (which melatonin doesn’t positively impact). For instance, you can help program your body to produce melatonin for sleep at the right time of day by getting exposure to daylight during the morning and afternoon. This can include taking walks outside during the day or even sitting beside a sunny window to do your work. Getting sunlight first thing in the morning is also helpful to reduce morning grogginess and fatigue. Surprisingly, the most effective treatment for chronic insomnia is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), because our emotions and stress have such a strong impact on how we sleep. Meditation, using blue-light filters for our devices near bedtime, and keeping our bedroom cool can help as well. Check out our March issue to learn more about sleep hygiene and how to limit your screen time in the evening! Additional Resources • Melatonin for Sleep: Does It Work?John Hopkins Medicine • Melatonin and Sleep Sleep Foundation • Jet Lag Rooster by Sleepopolis A free app to help you reduce jet lag Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top