Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month Main content start Live the Upstander LIFE If you’re at a social event and see a situation unfolding that doesn’t sit right with you or makes you uncomfortable, it can feel paralyzing. You can feel lost as to what to do or say, and question your own judgment as to whether it’s really “that bad.” This is called the bystander effect. Luckily, being aware of this and learning concrete ways to mitigate it can go a long way in keeping our community well, and preventing harm. We have entered Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM), a time we can intentionally build our awareness of sexual violence, it’s prevalence in our communities, and make commitments to creating a safe, non-violent, Stanford. What is the bystander effect and how can you prevent it? A bystander is someone who witnesses an event or incident that warrants intervention, but does not intervene to prevent the harm from occurring. The bystander effect is a phenomenon in which the increased presence of witnesses or "bystanders'' in a crisis actually decreases the likelihood that any single person will intervene. In these cases, many individuals assume someone else in the situation will respond, justifying their hesitancy or refusal to take action. The key to bystander intervention is recognizing that you may be the ONLY person who will respond to someone in need. Every bystander faces the same choice: Do I get involved and try to make things better? Or do I ignore the situation? If answering yes to the former, you can take measures to intervene in the interest of someone else while also taking precautions to protect your own safety and well-being. In other words, you can be an upstander! An upstander witnesses an event or incident and chooses to do something to intervene. In the prevention of sexual and relationship violence, upstanders play a critical role, as they often have the power to stop assaults and get help for people who have been victimized. This can include: (1) creating a culture of sexual citizenship, (2) advocating for each others yes and nos, and (3) affirming and respecting everyone’s right to agency, consent, and boundaries. At Stanford, we promote a culture of care and accountability where all community members are upstanders who are actively engaged in the prevention of violence, realizing that we are not just responsible for ourselves, but also the well-being of everyone else in our community. How can I be a better upstander? Be aware of power dynamics that are at play around you. It is helpful to recognize situations that warrant intervention. Consider the following: Do you see peer pressure or coercion at play? Is it happening overtly or below the surface? Check your assumptions. When hanging out with others, especially in situations where alcohol is being consumed, make sure you are aware of body language and intoxication levels amongst those around you. If alcohol is at play, avoid making the assumption about: Who is looking to engage in sexual activity with who. Ask them: “Hey I noticed that person was getting a little too close to you. I just wanted to check in and make sure that is okay with you.” What may look like helpful behaviors but can actually be harmful. For example, if someone is helping an individual leave a party, ask them: “Are you okay with this person walking you home?” When approached with these situations or others, remind yourself that it is better to follow your instincts and be wrong than it is to let something slide. Hold yourself and others accountable. An example of this is when witnessing someone make sexual advances on another person that seem disrespectful or violating of their boundaries. You can disrupt this action directly by saying “Hey, not cool” or, in the case of sexual comments, ask “Wait, what did you mean by that?” It is not okay to automatically assume that the person wants the sexual attention or finds it flattering. If and when it comes time to intervene a situation, considering the 4 D’s of Intervention: Direct: Check in Provide options and a listening ear. Are you okay? How are you doing? What do you need? Would you like to go? Delegate: Seek help from another person who can you help intervene (friend, RA, police, someone with authority/power) Distract: Interrupt the situation or redirect individuals that may be at risk Delay: Check in with impacted parties after incident occurred and continue with follow up As an upstander, you may be faced with the choice to intervene in daily acts of harm (i.e. street harassment, bullying, sexist jokes) and even high-risk situations (i.e. situations involving physical violence, sexual assault, relationship violence). To support you in doing this, we encourage you to follow the upstander LIFE: Lead: Notice the situation Identities: Interpret is as problematic Feelings: Assume personal responsibility Evaluation: Know what to do and intervene safely (use the 4 D’s) Together we can create a more caring and responsible community! On-campus resources Sexual Harassment/Assault Response & Education Title IX Office SHARE SHARE: Request an upstander training Additional resources Upstander Intervention SHARE Introduction to Being an Upstander SHARE Video (5 minutes) Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top