Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Search Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual for COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Newsletter About Us Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual During COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Get Started Info Sessions Make an Appointment How to Apply Choose a Program FAQs Explore Our Programs Types of Programs Choosing a Program Search Programs Students Academics Finances Identities Abroad Accepted Students Returned Students Incoming Exchange Students Withdrawal Policy Recommended Readings Faculty & Advisors Promoting Study Abroad Faculty Led Programs University Trips Advisor Resources Forms My StudyAbroad Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual for COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Newsletter Latest Information Regarding COVID-19: Study Abroad FAQs UM's COVID-19 Resource Page Student Health Services About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Students Faculty & Advisors My StudyAbroad Home About Going Virtual for COVID-19 AAA Going Virtual for COVID-19 Study Abroad Staff Going Virtual for COVID-19 Processing Times Global Ambassadors Contact Us Newsletter Latest Information Regarding COVID-19: Study Abroad FAQs UM's COVID-19 Resource Page Student Health Services The University of Miami campus community continues to closely monitor the development of coronavirus COVID-19. Our priority is the safety and well-being of our students and staff while maintaining high levels of customer service. For this reason, the Study Abroad Office will continue to maintain virtual/remote operations with all services taking place either by phone or virtually using Zoom. For any questions, please email us at studyabroad@miami.edu. For Students Open All Tabs Virtual Advising & Appointments The Study Abroad Office is hosting virtual drop-in hours every Tuesday and Wednesday from 2:00pm-3:00pm through Zoom throughout the Spring 2022 semester. Click this link to register and join our weekly drop-in advising sessions. Our advisors are also available for individual meeting requests. In order to schedule an appointment, simply click on the name of the advisor to send them an email. General Advising Andrea Ruffoni Semidey Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China (including UShanghai), Japan, ULatin America, Singapore, South Korea, and UPrague Nina Castro Canada, England, UGalapagos, Ireland, the Netherlands, Scotland and Wales Grant Cutler Denmark, Finland, France (Including UParis), Iceland, Sweden and Switzerland Jessica Driemeier Australia, Austria, Germany and Spain (Including UBarcelona & USeville) Anna Kenney Italy (including URome) and UCape Town Tara George Samperio Information Sessions Study Abroad 101: Any student interested in studying abroad should attend this session FIRST! Here you will learn all about the various program offerings that exist, how finances work and information about academics abroad. Country/Program Specific: These sessions will highlight specific countries/regions/programs and provide specifics about applying. Scholarships: Are you wondering how to financially support an experience abroad? This session will provide information about applying for internal and external scholarship opportunities to help offset the cost. Summer Programs: Are you concerned about a whole semester abroad? Consider a summer program which can be just as impactful! Transcript & Document Submissions During this time, the Study Abroad Office will only accept digital transcripts. Students who need to submit their official transcript to their study abroad application should plan to order via CaneLink and have it submitted to studyabroad@miami.edu. All other documents should be sent to us by email at studyabroad@miami.edu. For limited situations in which a digital version or signature is not acceptable, please contact studyabroad@miami.edu or 305.284.3434 to request a date and time to drop off documentation. Please provide your full name, study abroad program, C number, and a description of your request. Documents Requiring Signature Any student who requires a signature on a document would be asked to scan and submit the request to studyabroad@miami.edu. Please include your full name, study abroad program, and your C number. In the event that a digital version is not acceptable, please allow an extra 5 business days to process. Students will need to email studyabroad@miami.edu to coordinate drop off/pick-up of document. For processing times, please review our website. Non-UM Petitions Students interested in a semester program abroad that is not listed on the UM Study Abroad website can petition the Study Abroad office for permission to participate in a program offered through another university or third-party provider. Students are encouraged to review Non-UM Study Abroad Program Policies before submitting a petition. In their petition, students must provide a valid academic reason for pursuing a non-UM semester program. Students must demonstrate that the non-UM program meets an academic need that a UM program does not, drawing specific examples of the academic merit and rigor of the non-UM program. The written explanation must be submitted via email to studyabroad@miami.edu with the subject line “Petition to Study Abroad on Non-UM Program” along with the completed Studying through a Non-UM Program form. (Course equivalencies do not need to have signatures at this stage, but the courses the student plans to take and seek equivalencies for do need to be listed.) For Faculty/Staff at UM Open All Tabs Faculty-Led Programs Content coming soon. Requesting a meeting with Study Abroad Team Member(s) In order to uphold physical distancing protocols, all meetings will need to take place via phone or Zoom/Microsoft Teams. Please feel free to contact the specific team member or our central inbox at studyabroad@miami.edu. For Partners Abroad Open All Tabs Site Visits We will not be permitting any in-person site visits at this time. Should you wish to conduct a virtual site visit with the Study Abroad Office or any Academic Departments, please contact us directly at studyabroad@miami.edu and we will coordinate setting this up for you. Contacting Our Staff General Advising and Incoming Exchange Students – All Locations Study Abroad Office Asia, Eastern Europe, South America (excluding Ecuador) Nina Castro Canada, Ecuador, Ireland, Netherlands, United Kingdom Grant Cutler Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Sweden and Switzerland Jessica Driemeier Australia, Austria, Germany and Spain Anna Kenney Italy, South Africa Tara George Assistant Dean & Director, Study Abroad Devika Milner University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Study Abroad Dooly Memorial Classroom Building 1111 Memorial Drive, Suite 125 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3434 305-284-3434 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices