retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Google Translate/En Español Search Search The Office Meet the VP Office Team Senior Team Departments Our Initiatives For Students Office of the Dean of Students HornsLink My UT Division Events Calendar For Parents & Families Parents & Family Resources Family Orientation Family Weekend Texas Parents Association For Faculty & Staff Faculty Resources Student Conduct & Academic Integrity Staff Newsletter Division Staff Resources Give Now Breadcrumb Home Departments Departments Led by Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Soncia Reagins-Lilly, the Division of Student Affairs works with academic partners, staff, parents and student leaders to influence our students in living the Longhorn life®. Supported by the Vice President for Student Affairs, the Division's nine departments, 37 units (listed below) and 40 facilities offer first-class programs, facilities and services. They include on-campus residence halls, apartments and their dining facilities, medical and mental health services, new student orientation, recreational sports and two university unions. The Division employs 1,500 students annually and supports 1,000 student organizations, student emergency and veteran services, and leadership programs. Center for Students in Recovery The Center for Students in Recovery provides a supportive community where students in recovery and in hope of recovery from addiction of any kind can achieve academic success while enjoying a genuine college experience. Visit the Department Website Counseling and Mental Health Center The Counseling and Mental Health Center serves the university’s diverse campus community by providing high quality, innovative and culturally informed mental health programs and services that enhance and support students’ well-being, and academic and life goals. Business Services* Data/IT, Assessment and Communication* Integrated Health* Longhorn Wellness Center (Health Promotion/Prevention)* Mental Health Clinical Services Psychiatric Services Psychology and Social Work Training Programs *shared services with University Health Services Visit the Department Website New Student Services New Student Services coordinates programming and initiatives for students year-round to ensure they transition both academically and socially to the university. This includes New Student Orientation, transition initiatives, off-campus living resources, first-generation student resources, and autism and neurodiversity outreach and support. Communication Longhorn TIES (Transition, Inclusion, Empower, Success) Neurodiversity Support New Student Orientation Off-campus Living Resources Transition Initiatives Visit the Department Website Office of the Dean of Students The Office of the Dean of Students empowers Longhorns through leadership development, engaging programs and events, support for close to 1,000 student organizations, as well as specialized services. Those services include student conduct, emergency support, veteran services, hazing prevention, peer support services and more. Legal Services for Students Legislative Student Organizations Living the Longhorn Life Events Sorority and Fraternity Life Student Activities Student Conduct and Academic Integrity Student Emergency Services Texas Leadership Education and Development Veteran and Military Affiliated Services Visit the Department Website Recreational Sports Recreational Sports promotes physical fitness, healthy habits and balanced behaviors through an array of recreation facilities, programs, services, special events and student employment opportunities. Programs offered include Intramural Sports, Fitness/Wellness, Outdoor Recreation, Sport Clubs, the Instructional Program and Informal Recreation. Business Services Communications and Development Facility Operations Programs and Memberships Visit the Department Website Texas Parents Texas Parents serves all students’ families who need assistance navigating university resources. All parents and families of enrolled undergraduate students are members of the Texas Parents Association, the university’s official association for parents. Membership provides benefits to support and promote student success from enrollment through graduation. Visit the Department Website University Health Services University Health Services provides healthcare and public health leadership to support students in reaching their optimal health so they can achieve their academic and personal potential. Business Services* Data/IT, Assessment and Communication* Diagnostic, Ancillary Services and Patient Access Integrated Health* Longhorn Wellness Center (Health Promotion/Prevention)* Medical Services Nursing Services *shared services with the Counseling and Mental Health Center Visit the Department Website University Housing and Dining University Housing and Dining oversees 15 residence halls, University Apartments, 2400 Nueces, Dobie Twenty21 and 10 dining and retail venues. By creating transformative living and learning communities, the staff fosters student engagement, growth and success. • Business Services • Dining • Facilities • Human Resources • Residence Life Visit the Department Website University Unions The University Unions provides a wide array of student services, educational and leadership development opportunities, study and event spaces, and food venues. The department enhances the student experience through our unique and multi-faceted facilities, programs and services, as well as a vibrant student organization. Business Services, IT and Communications Facilities, Operations, Hospitality and Maintenance Human Resources Student Programming Visit the Department Website About Us Division Organizational Chart Impact Report Division News and Standouts Advisory Councils and Committees Philanthropy Across the Division Reporting Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination Block Report Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination Learn about the reporting process, support services available, and your options. Department Tweets UT Bruce the Bat UTBruceTheBat Eat a mix of fruit and veggies in whatever way works for you! Fresh or frozen, cooked or in a smoothie! https://t.co/wEqsKlEcjn 17 hours 53 min ago Healthyhorns Healthyhorns Proactive Community Testing is available this week Tuesday through Friday! PCT is for UT students, faculty and sta… https://t.co/6yVBm9DOGK 20 hours 54 min ago Healthyhorns Healthyhorns University Health Services, Counseling and Mental Health Center and the Longhorn Wellness Center are closed on Mond… https://t.co/x93YEHKD4T 1 day 18 hours ago UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 days 18 hours ago Healthyhorns Healthyhorns Self-care doesn't have to take all day! On this #selfcaresaturday consider incorporating one or two of these five-m… https://t.co/ooeZBeIFPO 2 days 19 hours ago Healthyhorns Healthyhorns Longhorns stay safe when they celebrate. Here are some tips for staying safe if you choose to go out this weekend! https://t.co/hBSrMcyIg6 3 days 11 hours ago UT RecSports UTRecSports If your Memorial Day plans include stopping by a RecSports facility, make sure you take note of our adjusted hours… https://t.co/P5XmE3s4UA 3 days 14 hours ago UT Bruce the Bat UTBruceTheBat 95% of students approve of calling for medical help for someone who needs it. Visit https://t.co/aRspUDEn3U to lear… https://t.co/5yw6wrFmcK 3 days 14 hours ago UT Orientation UTorientation Don't waste time at #UTOrientation standing in line for your UT Austin ID. You can submit your photo before even ar… https://t.co/3osPDulsvj 3 days 18 hours ago UT Housing UTHousing Hey, incoming residents (especially you, #UT26): Mooov-In will be here before we know it. Check the link in the bio… https://t.co/68bJlSSorw 3 days 19 hours ago The University of Texas at Austin Vice President for Student Affairs 2304 Whitis Avenue, Stop G5000 Austin, TX 78712-1659 vpsa@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-1133 Fax: 512-471-5558 FacebookFind us on Facebook flickrSee us on flickr InstagramSee us on Instagram tumblrFind us on tumblr TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory Maps UT Direct UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022