Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management View Your Bill Online NC State University currently uses eBILL, an electronic billing system, to notify students of their account information. An eBILL reflects the charges and credits applied to a student’s account as of the date the bill was created. Click on the action below for more information on: Viewing your eBill - Student Instructions Viewing your eBill - Parent/Guardian Instructions Viewing balance adjustments Viewing previous billing statements Viewing your eBill - Student Instructions Students registered with eBill who have outstanding balances on their accounts receive a monthly email notification from e_bill@ncsu.edu that a new statement is available online via MyPack Portal. Follow these steps to access your eBill: MyPack Portal > Student Homepage > Student Accounts tile > Billing Statements Log into the MyPack Portal with your Unity ID and password. View your Student Homepage. Select the Student Accounts tile. From the left-hand menu, select Billing Statements. You will be able to see current and previous billing statements. Select the date corresponding to the billing statement to access a PDF. You may print the PDF file or save and attach to an email. Note: Students are responsible for making sure that the amount owed is paid by the due date whether or not a bill is received. (Students are also responsible for maintaining their current email and mailing addresses with Registration and Records. Information changes can be made online via MyPack Portal or in person at Registration and Records.) For questions about the current status of your account or to review previous bills, you may log into the MyPack Portal (using your unity ID and password), or contact the Student Services Center at 919-515-NCSU (6278) or email studentservices@ncsu.edu. Viewing your eBill - Parent/Guardian Instructions Parents/guardians can access an eBILL by following these steps: Log into the MyPack Portal using the ‘NCSU Parents/Guests’ login with the email address and password provided by the student (Parents who are also Students or Employees of the University will log into MyPack using the NCSU Faculty/Staff/Students option as normal.) Select the ‘Student Homepage.’ Select the ‘Parent/Guardian Information’ tile. Select a student by clicking a checkbox, then return to the Student Homepage to view that student’s data. Select the ‘Student Accounts’ tile. Select ‘Billing Statements ‘ from the left-hand menu. You will be able to see current and previous billing statements. Select the date corresponding to the billing statement to access a PDF. You may print the PDF file or save and attach to an email. NOTE: Be sure your pop-up blockers are disabled. Parent/Guardian Bill Notifications Students can add a second email address for bill notifications by following these steps: Log into the MyPack Portal (with Unity ID and password). Select your Student Homepage. Select the ‘Personal Information’ tile. From the left-hand menu, select ‘Parent & Guardian Access.’ On this page, you can choose to edit, add, or revoke access as desired. Viewing your balance adjustments An eBill contains your current billing statement and does not reflect any new charges or credits after the billing date. To check your current account balance and to view payments or adjustments to your account since your last billing statement, follow these steps: Log into the MyPack Portal using your Unity ID and password. Select your Student Homepage. Select the ‘Student Accounts’ tile. From the left-hand menu, select the ‘Account History’ folder. Select ‘Charge History’ to view balance adjustments, or ‘Transaction History’ to view additional transaction details. Viewing previous billing statements To download previous billing statements as a PDF, follow these steps: Log into the MyPack Portal using your Unity ID and password. View your Student Homepage. Select the ‘Student Accounts’ tile. From the left-hand menu, select ‘Billing Statements’ to view current and previous billing statements. Select the billing state corresponding to the billing statement you would like to view. If desired, click the green ‘Bill Statement PDF’ button to view and/or download a PDF of your bill statement. UNITY ACCOUNT INFORMATION: If you have problems accessing the MyPack Portal, or have questions about your Unity ID and password, you may contact the Help Desk at 919-515-HELP (4357). Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.