Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Information for undergraduates who will isolate in-place Main content start Undergraduates living in Mirrielees and EVGR-A ,with private bedrooms and single-occupancy bathrooms can isolate in-place (in their own room). All other undergrads should review the current COVID-tiers guide to know if this applies to you too. COVID-19 Isolation Form If you are permitted to isolate in your room according to the criteria above, complete this form to report your positive test results and to begin receiving support services such as meal delivery. Then read the information below to become more acquainted with the expectations and resources in place for you. Access the COVID Isolation SNOW Ticket here During isolation What does it mean for you to be in isolation? Being in isolation means preserving your health, safety, and well-being along with that of your community. The isolation period is necessary anytime a student tests positive for COVID-19. Although you will be in “isolation,” our goal is for you to still feel connected and well-supported. What is expected of me while in isolation? If you are experiencing new or worsening symptom, notify your medical provider, Vaden Health Services or the Sports Medicine Team. CDC guidance can be found here. You may temporarily leave isolation for medical attention or if you have been permitted to do so by a medical expert. If you leave, you MUST wear a face mask fully covering your nose, mouth, and chin, and you MUST return to your room immediately afterward. What should I refrain from doing while in isolation? Do not leave isolation until you are released by medical professionals. Here's information on how to share space if you have a roommate, suitemate or apartment-mate. Do not use laundry rooms. Do not have visitors. Do not have others come to your space for visits of any kind. Do not go to any in-person events, meetings, social activities, or other group activities. If you have questions about leaving your space, please contact your medical provider, Vaden Health Services, or the Sports Medicine Team if you are a varsity athlete. Do not go to work. Communicate with your supervisor and HR to explore remote work options. Guidance on Isolation Daily needs: meal delivery, medical care, your campus resources Throughout this process, it is our hope that you will continue to engage in academics (to the extent the severity of your illness allows it and if applicable) and practice a daily routine that includes tending to your health, well-being, dietary needs, and non-in person social communication. We are here to ensure you have access to appropriate campus resources so that you are well supported. Meal delivery Meals will be tailored for dietary restrictions and allergies based on the information you have submitted. Isolate in Place Meal Delivery FAQ Medical care Throughout your isolation period, please continue to be in regular contact with Vaden Health Services at 650.498.2336. Here is how to reach Vaden after hours. Garbage Leave your garbage outside your room door on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Custodial teams will pick up and dispose of garbage in the clear plastic bag that R&DE Dining is providing with meal deliveries. Academic needs We encourage you to reference your course syllabi and email your professors and your academic advisor so that they know that you will be unable to participate in in-person academic activities. Contact your Undergraduate Advising Director for assistance. If you can't get to the bookstore to pick up books you need for class, order the books online and then after you receive an email from the bookstore confirming your books are ready for pickup, fill out this form for delivery to your room. Additional campus resources Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): 650.723.3785 Office of Religious and Spiritual Life (ORSL): 650.723.1762 More health and well-being resources What should I do after I’ve completed my period in isolation? You can only be cleared to leave isolation under medical advice. Step-by-step instructions for all students. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top