Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Stanford Against Hate Main content start Through the COVID-19 pandemic, more attention and awareness has grown around long standing issues of oppression and injustice. From police brutality and murder of Black Americans, to the increase of anti-Asian hate crimes, to the disproportionate impact of the pandemic on low-income Americans and those with chronic health concerns, inequity and injustice are evident across multiple dimensions of U.S. systems. From increased hatred and xenophobia towards immigrants of color, to erasure and dismissal of Native communities, to increasingly oppressive legislature targeting the LGBTQ+ community, to the rise of antisemitism and ongoing Islamophobia, it is clear that this injustice is not just spurred by COVID, but deeply rooted within U.S. culture and its institutions. Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Stanford's Vision Part of Stanford’s vision includes “integrating an understanding of attitudes, values, behaviors, cultures, histories, and our capacity for cooperation. It fervently underscores the need to provide strong support for the people in our community, and to advance our mission with integrity and values.” As such, Stanford commits to supporting its many communities within this constant onslaught of hate and harm. As a step toward ensuring this support, this page of materials and suggestions has been created with the intention to help you feel resourced, empowered, and heard. While this is not an exhaustive list, we will be continually updating it with vetted resources and welcome suggestions and feedback. Though created in response to the current global waves of prejudice, this site will not only act as a solemn reminder of the ways oppression has been embedded within the United States and its systems, but a call to our community members and university systems to continue to fight against oppression and to work towards an inclusive Stanford for all. Get Help Now “Eliminating racial injustice on our campus, and helping eradicate it in our society, will require a rigorous, comprehensive and sustained effort. It will take the commitment of Stanford as an institution, starting with myself, the provost and our senior leadership, including all vice presidents, vice provosts and deans. But it will also require the dedication of every member of our community.” - President Marc Tessier-Lavigne Helpful Information Social Justice Social justice basically means addressing and dismantling the socially-constructed and systems-perpetuated barriers that keep different communities from mental, physical, emotional, social, and financial health. If we begin to acknowledge these barriers and their impacts, we can deconstruct them and hopefully increase the well-being and success of all our communities. Liberation This idea of dismantling barriers, not just making changes around or to them, is sometimes called justice or liberation work- freedom from systems, beliefs, and behaviors that keep people from their whole selves, full potential, pursuit of happiness. As this illustration shows, if we take away the barriers for those who are most impacted, we all have access to participate and engage in our world. Equality vs. Equity vs. Justice Graphic Created by Jordan Vega Llorin Intersectionality In order to get to liberation, however, we must start by acknowledging the different barriers at play. A lot of the time, these barriers come in “isms” and “phobias” (e.g. racism, sexism, ableism, homophobia, transphobia) because they keep certain communities in power and certain communities out. From Kimberle Crenshaw’s term of intersectionality from Black feminist theory, we learn that in order to talk about these barriers, we have to also recognize that these barriers (like a birdcage) intersect and overlap, creating specific experiences of oppression for folks depending upon their identities and experiences. White Supremacy One of these huge overarching and intersecting barriers is what many call White Supremacy. White Supremacy is the belief that White people are superior to other races, especially Black folks; this belief is then used to rationalize the domination, subjugation, and mistreatment of Black people and other folks of color. While some folks think that this term belongs only in describing extreme hate groups, our entire U.S. culture and its corresponding systems are based in White supremacy. When exploring how the Declaration of Independence claimed only White male landowners as citizens, how policing began from slave patrols, how our medical system was built to serve only White Americans at the cost of Black lives, and on and on and on, we can begin to see that these structures were built to serve White people first and foremost and that some of our current systems were actually created primarily to limit the freedoms and health of Black people. Ally/Accomplice/Co-conspirator Here is a roadmap on how we can be upstanders to dismantle White supremacy and other oppressive forces. First, we begin as an active ally, making some changes personally or within our circles like posting a hashtag, sharing our pronouns, reading anti-racist books, or amplifying others’ stories and voices. While these are important actions, they do little to change overarching systems. Once we realize that oppressive forces cannot be fought by individuals alone or fought without continual work, we begin to move towards being an accomplice. By continually working to fight systems like challenging stereotypes and jokes, decentering privileged experiences, advocating for training and organizational change, we begin to carry the weight of working towards liberation. When we begin to be vigilant in our social justice efforts, holding ourselves accountable, and take risks to reallocate funds and attention, these actions have become a lifestyle. A co-conspirator is willing to take personal risks to dismantle and re-envision a world of liberation. Pyramid of Accountability Graphic by Britt Hawthorne from https://www.instagram.com/p/CJwnDGBMSxO/ Here’s what you can do in your upstander journey. Why should I care? This matters, first and foremost, because absolutely everyone deserves the chance to explore their potential and thrive. None of us had any say in the types of situations, systems, and communities we were born into. These things should not keep us from being our true, whole selves in pursuit of what brings us joy, connection, and security. Second, while we may all face different barriers, the limitation of these barriers limits creativity and contribution for all of us. If the barriers were broken down, think of all the unlocked potential available to humanity, the problems we would solve, and the world we could create. Third, while these barriers and forces affect people and communities differently, they still affect everyone. Racism keeps people disconnected from each other and their own capacity to thrive and create. Sexism, homophobia, and transphobia restrict authenticity and expression for every person. By tearing down barriers, all of us are liberated. #freeyourmind Here's What You Can Do Fighting Anti-Black Racism Fighting Anti-Latiné Hatred Fighting Anti-Indigenous Hatred Fighting Anti-Asian Hate Fighting Antisemitism Fighting Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Learn More Stanford University Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top