Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Students Menu Home Frosh Sophomores Juniors Seniors Senior Class Presidents Commencement offerings Young Alumni Grad Students Student Alumni Council Awards Undergraduate awards Graduate awards Nominations Main content start Welcome, Stanford students. Undergrad or grad student? You’re in the right place. View the programs and resources that the Stanford Alumni Association (SAA) provides just for you by navigating to your class’s page from the menu above, or view the offers available to all students below. TREEditions Stanford traditions are everywhere—and we’ll tell you how to find them! We’ve created a poster of all the Stanford TREEditions you need to experience before you graduate; print one out at the link below. Download TREEditions (PDF) Student Alumni Facebook page Be the first to hear about the newest student offerings from SAA, courtesy of your fellow students! The Student Alumni Facebook page is your source for upcoming event details, event photos and SAA employment and volunteer opportunities. Visit Student Alumni on Facebook Nerd Nation SAA's got love for students, and one of the ways we show it every year is by showering you with the essential Nerd Nation freebies. We gifted a combined 1,200 t-shirts at our September 30 and November 18 giveaways this fall quarter. To get the scoop on fall 2022 dates, follow us on our socials. Alumni Career Connections for Students The Stanford alumni network is one of the most powerful tools for your job search and career exploration. Exclusively available to students and alumni, you can become part of the alumni community by creating a profile with SAA. You’ll receive an alumni.stanford.edu email and will have access to both the alumni directory and the private Stanford alumni LinkedIn group. Learn more about career resources Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center The Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center isn’t just for alumni! Explore your future home away from home as you lounge by the giant fireplace, grab a cup of coffee at the café, study in the cozy library or relax outside in Ford Gardens. See alumni center info Reunion Crew Stanford Reunion returned October 21-24, 2021 and SAA pulled off the biggest party on campus with the help of Stanford students like you. Check back next fall to join the interest list in order to sign up for shifts across Stanford Homecoming Reunion 2022. Alumni Directory Wherever you are, you can connect to your extended family of 230,000 Stanford alumni. Studying abroad, moving to a new city or getting familiar with an industry? Use the Alumni Directory to build your network and connect with alumni all over the world. Access the directory (login required) Stanford Alumni Association Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305-6105 map Find an alum Check your alumni email Access SAA Member Card Give to Stanford Stanford Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Code of Conduct Events Featured Events Reunions Communities Clubs & Groups Young Alumni Students Reading & Resources News & Stories Learn STANFORD magazine Career Connections Newsletters Racial Justice Programs & Perks Alumni Perks Alumni Membership Sierra Programs Travel/Study Wine Collection Alumni store Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Stanford Associates Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations About About SAA Alumni Center Event Space Contact Us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top