Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Deans Office Undergraduate Deans Office Contact Us undergraduate.deans.office@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About Us Student Drop-In Hours People Back to Top Nav Students Resources by Class Incoming Students First-Year Students Sophomores Juniors Seniors Transfer Students Exchange Students Veterans About Housing Campus Billing Certifying Official Professional Development Accessibility Services Academic Advising Remote Learning Tips Academic Planning Planning Your Major D-Plan Senior Academic Mentors Withdrawals and Returns Taking Time Away from Dartmouth Returning After Time Away from Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Resources & Support Faculty Parents, Guardians, and Families Students Take a Faculty Member to Lunch Dean's Certification for Professional Schools Release of Information Form (FERPA) Campus Resources Housing Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Connecting with Your Dean We are here to support you during the Spring 2022 term! You can schedule a zoom or phone appointment with your dean by using your dean's Calendly link, calling the office at 603-646-2243 or by emailing us at undergraduate.deans.office@dartmouth.edu. Our hours of availability remain 8 a.m. -12 noon and 1:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m., M-F. Drop-ins continue to be available from 1:00 – 4:00pm, M-F, when classes are in session. We will be holding both in-person and remote drop-ins. Please note that while not required, masks are encouraged in the Undergraduate Deans Office. In our suite we mask for those who are immunocompromised or have small children at home who are unable to be vaccinated. If this is an after hours emergency, please contact Department of Safety and Security at 603-646-4000 and ask to speak with the Dean on Call. Questions about COVID-19 and returning to campus? Please visit the Coming to Campus Guidelines and Dartmouth Together websites for the most up-to-date information. Who We Are Learn about the role of the Undergraduate Deans and the benefits of working with them. Contact Us Learn how to contact your Undergraduate Dean. Academic Advising Learn how to work with your Undergraduate Dean on the D-Plan and planning your major. Resources by Class Information on resources available for each class year. Take a Faculty Member to Lunch Learn how to take a faculty member to breakfast or lunch at Pine Restaurant. Parents, Families & Guardians Information and resources on how to support your undergraduate. Main menu Dartmouth College Undergraduate Deans Office About About Us Student Drop-In Hours People Students Resources by Class Incoming Students First-Year Students Sophomores Juniors Seniors Transfer Students Exchange Students Veterans About Housing Campus Billing Certifying Official Professional Development Accessibility Services Academic Advising Remote Learning Tips Academic Planning Planning Your Major D-Plan Senior Academic Mentors Withdrawals and Returns Taking Time Away from Dartmouth Returning After Time Away from Dartmouth Resources & Support Faculty Parents, Guardians, and Families Students Take a Faculty Member to Lunch Dean's Certification for Professional Schools Release of Information Form (FERPA) Campus Resources Housing Ribbon Footer People Contact Your Dean Banner log-in Student Drop-In Hours Schedule Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Student Academic Support Services Center 6064 Carson Hall, Suite 125 Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 603-646-2243 Fax: (603) 646-6166 HB: HB 6064 Email: undergraduate.deans.office@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback