Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Alcohol and Other Drugs Main content start Summary of Recent Events In 2019, Provost Drell appointed the Alcohol Solutions Group to work with the Law and Policy Lab at Stanford Law School in collecting data, studying the issues and gathering feedback. Over 1,000 students participated through surveys, focus groups and town hall meetings. Since that time, and through the pandemic, students and staff have been collaborating in over two dozen working groups to bring to life recommendations from the Alcohol Solutions Group and Law and Policy Lab. These distinct but interconnected projects lay the groundwork for a critical opportunity to create a safer and healthier environment beginning this fall. At the same time, we will continue popular and impactful programs like Cardinal Nights and 5-SURE on Foot, which provide support for many students. On December 13, 2021, we shared this end-of-quarter update with undergraduates. New Opportunities and Programs Below, you will find a short summary of the current student and staff working group plans under development. There are many opportunities for ongoing student involvement. In the coming months, we will be providing more information on how to join in. RAs in undergraduate dorms will: receive enhanced training to support them in their roles as they help residential students navigate their personal development and responsible decisions, as well as disrupt unhealthy campus norms. have access to financial and programmatic support to offer weekend substance-free events in dorms across campus. The Fraternity and Sorority Life (FSL) Working Groups are examining the intersection of substance use and Greek life on campus and will make recommendations for systemic change for Greek organizations to contribute to a healthy campus, including harm reduction and education regarding alcohol and other drugs. The Office of Substance Use Programs Education & Resources (SUPER) is expanding its outreach efforts to: offer robust alcohol and drug education programming in frosh dorms. extend outreach efforts to students across the four years of their undergraduate education. introduce a new Peer Educators program to offer local programming and education support in each of the new ResX neighborhoods. The Well House, a newly-designated residential learning community, will welcome residents in fall 2021. This new theme house will provide substance-free and wellness living on the Row for 51 undergraduate students with the oversight of a Resident Fellow and will provide community-wide substance-free programming and resources for all students. Stanford will foster and create a chapter of the national Collegiate Recovery Program (CRP) in fall 2021 to offer comprehensive and holistic support for students who belong or seek to belong to the substance recovery community. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) will hire two new counselors specifically trained in the treatment of substance use disorders. In addition to offering direct clinical support for students, these counselors will offer outreach and education support for the Well House and the CRP community. Recognizing that our community extends beyond campus, we will invite Stanford parents and families to offer feedback on the alcohol and drug norms and challenges that their students face along with the opportunity to be informed partners during their students’ college experience. A new, streamlined system for party and event planning for student organizations will be developed and piloted via CardinalEngage. Policy and Accountability In addition to the actions described above, we are working on an updated student alcohol and other drug policy and accountability framework that will clearly articulate state and federal legal requirements we must follow and the corresponding accountability processes to ensure a safer campus. We would like to thank the many students who provided specific feedback to the Alcohol Solutions Group on the very sensitive and important topics of policy and accountability. We heard you when you said the following, summarized here as ASG recommendations: Clearly defined expectations for intervention, referral, and reporting. Accountability for all students and student groups that is equitable, transparent, and enforceable. A culture of care that also includes the role of individual and community (student organization, residence hall, team, etc.) accountability. Student Alcohol and Other Drugs Policy Explore the alcohol and drugs policy for the university, effective September 1, 2021. Learn More We are committed to implementing these student-informed recommendations. Many of you shared that you would like to be involved in next steps. We need and welcome your feedback and ideas on alcohol and other drug education and misuse prevention. The Dean of Students Office will be in touch soon with student leaders and campus partners to refine an accountability framework for students and student communities, with the goal of implementing this new framework at the start of the upcoming academic year. Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Connected to Vaden Health Services, CAPS offers 24/7 urgent support to students regardless of location. Find out more about this vital service as well as the type of assistance they can provide. Learn More SUPER Supporting the campus community, SUPER (Substance Use Program, Education & Resources) aims to reduce high-risk alcohol and other drug usage and their related harms among Stanford students by enriching the social experience and providing collaborative, cutting-edge, empirically-proven educational strategies and programs. Learn More Recovery Community Information As we seek to build our Stanford Collegiate Recovery Program, this site is designed to support Stanford affiliates in their recovery, with flexible levels of support. Learn More Resources for Parents & Families Find information about talking to your college student about alcohol and more. Learn More Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top