Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Student Affairs Get Help Menu open menu close Find Community Get Involved Be Well Who We Are Search search close Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Resources Make a Gift Search Pages search Search We’re here to support your success Student Affairs is 500+ people across 16 campus departments dedicated to helping UW–Madison students succeed in and out of the classroom. We celebrate diversity and creating a welcoming and safe community where all students can grow. Our programs and services cover areas including health and well-being, identity and inclusion, leadership and engagement, and student advocacy. Meet our team Create your Wisconsin Experience Belonging As Badgers, we are committed to creating an inclusive environment where every student feels a sense of belonging, and where we appreciate and celebrate one another’s abilities, views, and accomplishments. Find your community More Student organizations More Becoming We strive to find greater meaning every day through purposeful action. We work for the common good and lead for positive change. Get involved More Leadership opportunities More Being We develop resilience, and we foster courage in life and learning. There are so many things you can do at UW–Madison. Take time to simply be and to take care of yourself along the way. Mental Health Services More Recreation & Wellbeing More Wisconsin Union More Get help when you need it We recognize there is a new normal, and we are here to help — on and off-campus. Dean of Students Office More International Student Services More Remote health and connection More Report an incident Bias or hate incident Including slurs, degrading language, epithets, graffiti, symbols, assault, microagressions, and harassment. Report bias or hate Sexual misconduct Actions related to sexual assault or exploitation, dating/domestic violence, or stalking. Report sexual misconduct Other incidents This could include a student that you are concerned about, hazing, stalking, or a missing student. Report other incidents News and events Latest News Student Affairs announces 2021–22 employee awards On May 19, 2022, Student Affairs gathered at Tripp Commons in Memorial Union to celebrate its staff and campus partners during the annual Student Affairs Awards Ceremony and summer celebration. Student Affairs was established at …May 24, 2022 Honoring and Celebrating Military Kids at UW and Beyond The University of Wisconsin–Madison is home to over 1,500 students who are children of veterans or current service members. Our campus community seeks to recognize, acknowledge, celebrate, and uplift the unique identities, challenges, and accomplishments …May 18, 2022 Meet Barni Shiferaw: Student speaker for spring commencement May 4, 2022 By Doug Erickson Barni Shiferaw was running down Bascom Hill in just his underwear the other day when the thought occurred to him: This is yet another memorable experience I could not have had anywhere …May 10, 2022 Hundreds gather for historic unveiling of the Divine Nine Garden Plaza May 9, 2022 By Shauna Breneman Hundreds of current and alumni members of the fraternities and sororities of the National Pan-Hellenic Council, also known as the Divine Nine, and their many supporters gathered on May 7 for …May 10, 2022 In Memoriam: Remembering Our Badgers Twenty-five Badgers will be honored this year in a campus memorial celebration beginning at UW’s Carillon Bell Tower on April 29 at 11 a.m. The memorial event, hosted by the Dean of Students Office in …April 27, 2022 More News More Latest Events May May 31 Intro to Wheel Pottery6:00 AM, Studio Y, Memorial Union June June 1 Intro to Wheel Pottery6:00 AM, Studio Y, Memorial Union June Terrace Yoga7:15 AM, Memorial Union June Terrace Open Mic7:00 PM, Terrace, Memorial Union June 2 Intro to Wheel Pottery6:00 AM, Studio Y, Memorial Union More events More Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Report an incident Bias or Hate Sexual Misconduct Hazing Student of Concern Missing Student Quick Links Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Resources Assessments Jobs in Student Affairs Contact Us 185 Bascom Hall 500 Lincoln Drive Madison, Wisconsin 53706 Map map marker Email: vcsa@studentaffairs.wisc.edu Phone: 608-265-3540 instagram twitter facebook youtube Website feedback, questions or accessibility issues: jenny.bernhardt@wisc.edu. Learn more about accessibility at UW–Madison. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.