Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Wellness We encourage students to find a balance between academics, physical fitness, social support, and emotional well-being. Wellness We encourage students to find a balance between academics, physical fitness, social support, and emotional well-being. Health and Wellness at Alpert Wellness services and programming at Brown is multi-dimensional and encompasses physical, emotional and social activities to help you maintain a positive attitude and lifestyle. Ongoing wellness programs and events are scheduled periodically throughout the academic year to enhance the social and emotional well-being of students. 1 of 1 In recognition of the emotional benefits that animal companions provide, medical students cosponsored a visit at Alpert Medical School by four trained therapy dogs. Alpert Resources Chief Wellness Officer Kelly Holder, PhD Chief Wellness Officer kelly_holder@brown.edu Longitudinal Mentoring Faculty mentors help students maintain a balanced, long-term perspective while they are immersed in the MD program. Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs provide academic, personal, and career advisement. Psychological Support Services Laurice Girouard, LICSW provides dedicated therapy services for Medical Students through Brown's Counseling And Psychological Services. Students may contact her directly at (401) 863-3476 to make an appointment. Saturday & evening appointments are available. Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs strives to provide our students with a supportive learning environment, offering the advising and support that you need to grow as a future physician. Campus Resources Student Support Student Support Services provides 24-hour crisis services for undergraduate, graduate, and medical students with personal or family emergencies Student and Employee Accessibility Services SEAS facilitates accessibility services for students, faculty, staff and visitors with physical, psychological and learning disabilities. Health Services Health Services provides urgent and routine care, 24/7 nursing advice, and lab, pharmacy and X-ray services. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Wellness Open details for Wellness Bookmark this Page