Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Pronouns and Gender Identity NC State University is committed to providing a welcoming and inclusive campus environment as a foundation for student success. As such, we recognize that a student’s sex assigned at birth, or the sex by which they are legally recognized, does not necessarily align with their gender identity or the pronouns they use to express themselves. The university acknowledges that a student’s personal pronouns and gender identity should be used wherever appropriate in the course of university business and education. All students have the option to self-select their personal pronouns and gender identity in MyPack Portal. These fields are entirely optional and not required to update. If a student decides to select pronouns, this information will be visible administratively via class rosters, grade rosters and within the advising center. Personal pronouns and gender identity may potentially be shared with authorized university officials, but are not considered directory information and will not be released to unauthorized third-party contacts. Parents or guardians granted access through MyPack Portal, as well as peer students, should not be able to view this information via their individual system access. Frequently Asked Questions What are personal pronouns? Personal pronouns are pronouns individuals use to refer to themselves. In reference to an individual, it is respectful to use the pronoun with which they identify. Many people use he/him/his or she/her/hers pronouns, but there are many non-binary pronouns that people also use. For example, a transgender student may use ze/hir/hirs pronouns, rather than those socially or culturally associated with their sex assigned at birth. It’s useful for many people to share their pronouns, even if they use the pronouns socially or culturally associated with their sex assigned at birth. Sharing your pronouns potentially prevents the singling out of individuals using pronouns different than expected. What is gender identity? Someone’s gender identity represents an internal understanding of oneself or personal sense of one’s own gender, which may differ from their sex assigned at birth. For example, someone assigned female at birth may identify as a man (transgender man), someone assigned male at birth may identify as a man (cisgender man), someone assigned male at birth may identify as genderqueer (transgender, outside the binary of man and woman), etc. Gender identity is not determined by sex assigned at birth What do the gender identity options mean? Agender – a term used to describe the experience of one being without gender, outside the gender binary, rejecting the social construct of gender Gender Fluid – a term used to describe the experience of one’s gender as moving along the continuum between and among genders Genderqueer – a term used to describe the experience of being outside the gender binary, which may include having two or more genders (bigender, pangender, etc.), being third-gendered or other-gendered, or being without gender Man – a term used to describe the experience of one’s gender being male, masculine Non-binary – a term used to describe the experience of one’s gender being outside the binary or otherwise not identifying with binary male or female gender categories Self-Entered – please enter the term most appropriate to describe your gender Two-spirit – a culturally-specific term used to describe some individuals in some Native American cultures whose gender orientation includes both a masculine spirit and a feminine spirit Woman – a term used to describe the experience of one’s gender being female, feminine How do I set my pronouns and/or gender identity? Students can update their pronouns and/or gender identity in MyPack Portal. Navigate to your Student Homepage Select the ‘Personal Information’ tile Select the ‘Pronoun/Gender Identity’ option Select the appropriate options from the dropdown menu(s) Select ‘Save’ What are the guidelines for self-entered pronouns and/or gender identity? Generally, you can set self-entered pronouns and/or gender identity as desired, but the University reserves the right to delete a self-entered pronoun and/or gender identity if it is used inappropriately. Inappropriate use includes an attempt to harass or threaten, or is otherwise objectionable. Do I have to provide and set pronouns and/or gender identity? No. Both of these fields are entirely optional. Can I delete or change my pronouns and/or gender identity after saving? Yes. If you have designated pronouns and/or gender identity and wish to update or remove this information, you can do so in MyPack Portal. Navigate to your Student Homepage Select the ‘Personal Information’ tile Select the ‘Pronoun/Gender Identity’ option Change the desired field(s) to be blank or to the updated information Select ‘Save’ Where will this information be displayed? Pronouns will be available administratively via class rosters, grade rosters, the advising center, and other areas of MyPack Portal for faculty and staff viewing. Information on pronouns and/or gender identity may be shared with authorized university officials, but will not be released to unauthorized or third-party contacts. Parents or guardians granted access through MyPack Portal, as well as peer students, should not be able to view this information via their individual system access. Additional Resources NC State Policies, Regulations & Rules (POL 04.25.05 – Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action Policy) NC State Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Center (GLBT Center) NC State GLBT Advocate Program (GLBT Center) NC State Project SAFE Ally Workshop (GLBT Center) NC State GLBT Workshops (GLBT Center) NC State Bias Impact Response Safe at NC State (Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity) My Pronouns: Resources on Personal Pronouns Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.