Student Merit Home What is Merit? What is a badge? Why is Merit important for you? How can you claim your page? Home What is Merit? What is a badge? Why is Merit important for you? How can you claim your page? Home What is Merit? What is a badge? Why is Merit important for you? How can you claim your page? Home What is Merit? What is a badge? Why is Merit important for you? How can you claim your page? don't let your adventurous achievements go unrecognized Watch Video scroll down What is Merit? What is a badge? Why is Merit important for you? How can you claim your page? Your adventure. Your accomplishments. The Merit program is a way for you to get recognized on campus…in your hometown...and in the world for your accomplishments during your time at Iowa State University. Through a series of earned badges you can show off all of your hard work in one place. Are you conducting rocket science research? We’ve got a badge for that. How about that time you showed off your leadership skills? You can find that here too. The Merit program is a way to celebrate your unique accomplishments and abilities (and give you a leg up on life after college). Badges do the bragging for you. Merit badges recognize some of the great work you’re doing. Campus departments or colleges prepare a brief article about your achievement or recognition and award you one of the following badges: Achievement, Award, Competition, Internship, Leadership, Research, Service, Student Teaching or Study Abroad. Once you’ve received a badge, it will automatically be posted to your profile and you'll receive an email so you can share it with your friends, family and the world! Don't see a badge that fits your accomplishment? No problem, you can create your own to share! Get noticed for your achievements when your college passes along your story to your hometown newspaper. During your adventure at Iowa State University, you’ll do great things. Let’s show them off! It’s sort of like a digital thumbs up. Having another accolade under your name is always a good thing. Since Merit badges are awarded directly from your college, they offer a unique credibility boost that your resume can’t match. You can add unique information such as a bio, photos and work experience. Building this catalog of accomplishments and badges is an impressive way of mapping your successes and areas of expertise. Going the extra mile to show how you’ve taken advantage of your adventure at Iowa State University could make the difference between that big internship, dream grad school or dream job. Claim your claim to fame. Your page has been created by Iowa State University and is waiting for your customization. Sign in with the link you received in the welcome email. Can’t find the email? Try these steps: Go to iastate.meritpages.com, search for your name and click the link to your page. Click “Is this you?” under the profile picture and enter your Iowa State University email. Check your inbox and click the sign in link. Follow the prompts to customize your page and link it to social media. Need to opt out? If showing off your ridiculously-talented self just isn’t your thing, you can choose to opt out of Merit entirely. Send a reply to the email you received from Merit or opt-out to be removed. What is Merit? Your adventure. Your accomplishments. The Merit program is a way for you to get recognized on campus…in your hometown...and in the world for your accomplishments during your time at Iowa State University. Through a series of earned badges you can show off all of your hard work in one place. Are you conducting rocket science research? We’ve got a badge for that. How about that time you showed off your leadership skills? You can find that here too. The Merit program is a way to celebrate your unique accomplishments and abilities (and give you a leg up on life after college). What is a badge? Badges do the bragging for you. Merit badges recognize some of the great work you’re doing. Campus departments or colleges prepare a brief article about your achievement or recognition and award you one of the following badges: Achievement, Award, Competition, Internship, Leadership, Research, Service, Student Teaching or Study Abroad. Once you’ve received a badge, it will automatically be posted to your profile and you'll receive an email so you can share it with your friends, family and the world! Don't see a badge that fits your accomplishment? No problem, you can create your own to share! Get noticed for your achievements when your college passes along your story to your hometown newspaper. During your adventure at Iowa State University, you’ll do great things. Let’s show them off! Why is Merit important for you? It’s sort of like a digital thumbs up. Having another accolade under your name is always a good thing. Since Merit badges are awarded directly from your college, they offer a unique credibility boost that your resume can’t match. You can add unique information such as a bio, photos and work experience. Building this catalog of accomplishments and badges is an impressive way of mapping your successes and areas of expertise. Going the extra mile to show how you’ve taken advantage of your adventure at Iowa State University could make the difference between that big internship, dream grad school or dream job. How can you claim your page? Claim your claim to fame. Your page has been created by Iowa State University and is waiting for your customization. Sign in with the link you received in the welcome email. Can’t find the email? Try these steps: Go to iastate.meritpages.com, search for your name and click the link to your page. Click “Is this you?” under the profile picture and enter your Iowa State University email. Check your inbox and click the sign in link. Follow the prompts to customize your page and link it to social media. Need to opt out? If showing off your ridiculously-talented self just isn’t your thing, you can choose to opt out of Merit entirely. Send a reply to the email you received from Merit or opt-out to be removed. Latest Badges Awarded Meat Judging Team participates in first... The 2016 Iowa State University Undergraduate Meat Judging Team began the fall judging season at the Hormel National Barrow Show Intercollegiate Meat Judging Contest placing 4th in the overall content… Oct 6, 2016 Read more College of Agriculture and Life Sciences students... The American FFA Degree is awarded to FFA members who have demonstrated the highest level of commitment to FFA. These members will be recognized during the eighth general session of… Oct 5, 2016 Read more Engineers in ISUCF’V’MB These College of Engineering students work hard and dedicate long hours on top of their classes to be a part of the esteemed Iowa State College Football Varsity Marching Band. Oct 3, 2016 Read more Iowa State University students gain a global... More than 120 students saw agriculture and the life sciences first-hand in countries around the world through various study abroad programs over the summer. The Ag Study Abroad Office offers… Oct 3, 2016 Read more Iowa State Dairy Judging Team wins in national... Iowa State University students won the 23rd Annual Intercollegiate Dairy Cattle Judging Contest, held in Viroqua, WI. Fifteen teams from across the United States evaluated the visual appearance and determine… Sep 26, 2016 Read more Iowa State University students serve as Peer... Nearly 150 upper class students in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences will be serving as Peer Mentors in the college’s 20 Learning Communities for the 2016-2017 academic year…. Sep 14, 2016 Read more College of LAS announces 2016-2017 student... The Iowa State University College of Liberal Arts and Sciences is proud to announce the 2016-2017 student ambassadors who will be serving at recruitment events like Experience Iowa State, Open… Sep 12, 2016 Read more Iowa State Weed Science Team Places 1st in... The Iowa State University Weed Science Team placed first at the North Central Weed Science Society Collegiate Weed Science Contest. Composite scores for individuals and the team are calcuated from… Sep 2, 2016 Read more Toben named Outstanding Summer Intern at Helena... Laura Toben, agricultural and life sciences education-communications, was recognized as one of five Outstanding Summer Interns at Helena Chemical Company. Toben worked with growers positioning the return-on-investment of Helena’s AGRIn… Aug 26, 2016 Read more ISU students place 2nd in National Dairy Council... A team of Iowa State University students received second place in the 2016 National Dairy Council New Product Competition with their product “Beyond the Bar.” The newly created frozen yogurt… Jul 25, 2016 Read more Merit Program Contacts College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Business College of Design College of Engineering College of Human Sciences College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011 E. EMAIL ADDRESS P. PHONE NUMBER F. FAX NUMBER Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.