ABOUT Employment Organizational Chart OFFICES Director’s Office Graduate & Professional Student Government Health Promotion LGBTQ+ Pride Center New Student & Family Programs Off-Campus Student Services Student Assistance Services Student Legal Services Student Media Women’s Resource Center CONTACT US GIVE NOW Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Menu Header Right Search website... ABOUT Employment Organizational Chart OFFICES Director’s Office Graduate & Professional Student Government Health Promotion LGBTQ+ Pride Center New Student & Family Programs Off-Campus Student Services Student Assistance Services Student Legal Services Student Media Women’s Resource Center CONTACT US GIVE NOW STUDENT ASSISTANCE SERVICES Emergencies | Student Absence | Silver Taps | Former Foster/Adopted Aggies | Campus Ministry Association | Resources | Donate | Our Staff | Contact Us EMERGENCIES Assistance for Students in Case of an Emergency Texas A&M University is committed to providing an educational climate that is conducive to the personal and professional development of each individual. With a large university community of approximately 60,000 students, Texas A&M University and the Division of Student Affairs realize that crises, or critical incidents, will occur and that these crises can have a significant effect on the larger community. Such critical incidents will require an effective and timely response. Texas A&M University and the Division of Student Affairs have developed a Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT), consisting of university administrators and staff, to best respond to the critical incidents involving students. CIRT is available 24/7, 365 days a year to help students on and off campus during a critical incident. To activate CIRT, please contact the Texas A&M University Police Department at 979.845.2345. For general information or questions about CIRT, please call Student Assistance Services at 979.845.3113. Contacting Your Student in an Emergency Often a family emergency may require you to immediately reach your student. If that emergency occurs at a time during which your student is in a class it may be difficult for you to contact her/him via telephone, and you may need a message delivered. The University Police Department (UPD) can assist families in contacting their student. Families can contact UPD at 979.845.2345. Emergency Contact Information Between updating your Facebook or tweeting about your day, make sure you take the time to update your Emergency Contact Information on the Howdy Portal. With just a few clicks, you will have provided information that can be utilized in the event that you were an emergency situation. To update your Emergency Contact Information: Step 1: Log on to your Howdy Portal Step 2: Click on the My Information icon Step 3: Scroll to the Emergency Contact section Step 4: Click on Edit icon to edit emergency contact info on file; OR Step 5: Click + Add New to enter new emergency contact information Frequently Asked Questions I have already registered for Code Maroon. Is this the same thing? No. Code Maroon is Texas A&M University’s emergency notification system that gives the University the ability to communicate health and emergency information directly to you through TAMU Email and text messages. The Code Maroon system is a campus wide service. The emergency contacts that you provide would only be used to communicate information about you in the event you were in an emergency situation. How many emergency contacts can I enter? And what information can I provide for each contact? You have the ability to enter multiple emergency contacts within Howdy. For each emergency contact you enter, you have the ability to list the relationship you have with the person, their name, address and phone number. Although you can enter all this information, it is not a requirement. Are there other precautions I can take as a student? Sure! Besides updating your emergency contact information with Texas A&M and registering for Code Maroon, you can also program emergency contact information into your cell phone under the listing "ICE" (In Case of Emergency). By designating an ICE contact, first responders can contact your friends and family in the event you’re involved in an emergency. Resources for Emergencies & Critical Incidents University Police Department CODE MAROON What to do in an Emergency TAMU Emergency Preparedness Site Footer Texas A&M University Student Life Student Services Building 471 Houston St. | 1257 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1257 Phone: 979.845.3111 studentlife@tamu.edu Copyright 2022 • Student Life | Texas A&M University | • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT