Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Student Conduct and Community Standards Menu Conduct Process Definitions Student Code Authority Process Review Meeting Referrals Board Hearings Charges Appeals Sanctions Student Conduct Code Policies Resources Conflict Resolution & CERT FAQ Links Faculty and Staff Resources About Us Mission Staff Becoming a Board Member Statistics Conflict Education Resource Team (CERT) Contact Us A department within Student Affairs Home Student Conduct Code Student Conduct Code Click Here for the full Student Conduct Code Responsibility for the enforcement of the rules of the university rests with all the members of the Temple community. University rules should serve as a guide for high personal standards. It is the student’s responsibility to: 1. Foster an environment conducive to continued intellectual and educational stimulation within the university free from unlawful harassment by other members of the community; 2. Foster academic honesty and an environment that encourages intellectual growth and the development of independent thought; 3. Foster the maintenance of physical and mental health, the safety and welfare of each member of the community; and 4. Respect the rights of others. These general behavioral expectations and the university Student Conduct Code (“Student Code”) represent a reasonable regulation of student conduct, but the student should be as free as possible from imposed limitations that have no direct relevance to their education and to their obligations and responsibilities as a member of the university community. The provisions of the Student Code should be interpreted consistent with this philosophy, and in accordance with all recognized student rights and privileges. Policies Academic Dishonesty Form Academic Dishonesty Form_2020.pdf Sexual Misconduct Resources Learn More Temple University Student Conduct Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.