Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Parents » People Select to follow link Contact Us Departments Organization Chart Staff Programs Resources Select to follow link Professional Development Student Student Care Referral Team Select to follow link Concerned About a Student Student Support and Case Management Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Welcome to the Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs We Make Learning Possible. Who We Are Message from the Vice Provost for Student Affairs Student Affairs is committed to supporting and serving all members of the KU community. We strive to create a campus environment free of discrimination. As an advocate for students, please reach out to any member of our Student Affairs staff if you feel unsafe or unwelcome on campus. We hear you. You matter. We care. We stand with you. Tammara L. Durham The Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs coordinates and develops student support services and programs and serves as an advocate for student needs across the university community that contribute to overall academic success. Student Affairs extends beyond the classroom. Our mission is to engage the KU community in services and programs that make learning possible. We care about you, your studies, your social growth, your well-being and want to help you enjoy a great KU experience. Departments Departments Programs Programs Concerned About a Student Give to Programs and Scholarships Help Feed Hungry Jayhawks Jayhawk Student Support Fund Strong Hall, Room 132 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 studentaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-4060 instagram twitter youtube Assessment Concerned About a Student Parents Student Support and Case Management Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.