Skip to Content Student Health Services Academic Health Sciences Center Home About Services Appointments Records Payments Insurance Forms Resources Locations Portal Substance Use Recovery, Treatment, and Prevention. All in one place College is a time to explore new ideas and discover the limits of personal autonomy. Yet, in recent years the prevalence of substance abuse, depression, and anxiety is rising. Campus health professionals are working with students to reduce substance abuse, improve mental health, and foster self-confidence. At Student Health Services (SHS), we offer integrated recovery, treatment, and prevention programming for our students. Our recovery, treatment, and prevention services are not limited to the campus community. We contribute to our community’s well-being through advocacy and service. Recovery Earn Your Degree While Thriving in Recovery Young adults often feel isolated and frustrated when balancing their recovery with the expectations of a “typical” college student. We understand the stigma of being sober, especially on a college campus. The simple act of letting others know you are in recovery or interested in recovery is often very difficult. At UCF Student Health Services, we’re happy to offer professional recovery services as an extension of our Collegiate Recovery Community (CRC). The goal of our recovery program is to help students in recovery handle the people, places, and things that may become barriers to their recovery while they are working towards a degree at UCF, and thus increase graduation success rates and reduce the risk of relapse. Some of the services that the CRC can provide include: Helping students find support group meetings that meet their needs Providing connections to mental health professionals (Such as CAPS and Behavioral Health services at SHS) as needed Providing information on family/roommate support Connecting students to fellow peers in recovery Being a personal advocate and cheerleader for students’ recovery successes Members of the CRC know they are not alone. We understand the challenges of being in recovery, and that’s why fostering a sense of belonging, accomplishment, and accountability is important for students who choose to lead a sober lifestyle. As a result, CRC students flourish in academics and in their personal lives. Check out these Recovery Stories of past UCF Students. Treatment The Intersection of Mental Health and Substance Use Our Substance Use Disorder services provide treatment options to students who are struggling with addiction. We treat both substance use disorders as well as process addictions which include (though not limited to) gambling, video games, food, sex, and pornography addictions. Your first session with us will include an assessment with one of our licensed treatment providers to establish which form of treatment will be best for you. You do not need a referral for services to be seen in our office, however, many students are referred by their medical provider, UCF Counseling and Psychological Services counselor, and other outside community resources. If you or someone you know is struggling with an addiction, please call 407-823-2924 to make an appointment. Student Health Services Offers the following evidence enformed treatments to students with Co-occurring mental health disorders: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Acceptance and Commitment Therapy Neurofeedback Services Medication-Assisted Treatment Relapse Prevention Counseling Mindfulness Training Prevention Education Through Experience New students are provided with information that challenges the misperceived norms about alcohol and drug use, particularly in college. Substance use and anxiety/depression screenings are offered to all students each semester. Students are given feedback regarding their risk and protective behaviors. Those who screen positive for a substance use disorder receive a next day appointment to see a behavioral health provider. Student Health Services also provides brief intervention, personalized feedback, and referral to treatment for students mandated for a substance use assessment Support Groups An Array of On-Campus Support Meetings Al-Anon – Mondays at 7PM (Location info) Alcoholics Anonymous – Tuesdays at 7pm (Location info) Narcotics Anonymous: Wednesdays at 7PM (Location info) If you are interested in starting a meeting, please email us at crc@ucf.edu If you are looking for a meeting off-campus or days/times not listed above, below are some options in the Orlando area: AA: http://cflintergroup.org NA: http://orlandona.org SAA: http://saa-recovery.org COSA: http://www.cosa-recovery.org CODA: http://www.onlinecoda.net Al-Anon: http://al-anonorlando.org (online meetings available) Smart Recovery: http://www.smartrecovery.org/ (online meetings available) CRC in the News UCF has been leading the charge for creating a safe place for students in recovery to focus on earning their degree. Click here to see what has been said about our programs in the media Quick Links Recovery Treatment Prevention Support Groups Recovery Stories CRC in the News UCF Drug-Free Policy Support Students in Recovery. Give Now. Your gift to the Collegiate Recovery Community helps UCF students achieve their personal and academic potential. Sober Fun for Everyone Looking for students that don't use substances? Check out SoberKnights! Questions about completing AlcoholEdu? You can contact AlcoholEdu@ucf.edu for assistance with this requirement. UCF Drug-Free Policy It's important to arm yourself with the proper knowledge about the policy at UCF. Learn what things will get you into trouble, when you'd be protected from disciplinary actions, how to get help, and more. Read the policy here. Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Narcotics Anonymous Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 Jun 6 Al-Anon: Serenity Now Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 Jun 7 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 8 Narcotics Anonymous Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 Jun 13 Al-Anon: Serenity Now Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 More Events Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Big Red Bus - Donat UCF Memory Mall More Events Page Navigation Home About Services Appointments Records Payments Insurance Forms Resources Locations Portal Contact Us Student Health Services Phone 407-823-2701 Location Health Center, Room 101 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida