Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Enhanced Late Drop Option The enhance late drop request was introduced on a temporary basis in the Spring 2020 semester for students enrolled in the current term for all undergraduate and graduate courses. It is available for students who are unable to continue in a particular course. While this is not a preferred option, we realize circumstances might make it difficult to continue enrollment in a course. This online request is available to students via MyPack Portal. Key Implications Return to Normal for Summer 2021 Spring 2021 and Earlier Key Implications Here are some important, key points to keep in mind about the enhanced late drop options for students: The late drop option is available to all students It is important to consult with the instructor and your advisor before dropping any course The drop is not automatic and will go through an approval process before being finalized W grades will be assigned, but will not ultimately count toward the 16-hour maximum for undergraduate students Return to Normal Grading and Drop Beginning Summer I 2021 NC State will return to normal class grading and late drop policies beginning with the Summer I 2021 semester, which includes 3-week (Maymester), 5-week I, and 10-week classes. The Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Grading Option and the Enhanced Late Drop Option that were both initially introduced for the Spring 2020 semester will no longer be provided for any enrolled NC State students after the Spring 2021 semester concludes. What does this mean? Students who wish to enroll in a class on a credit-only grading basis (S/U) should carefully review the university’s regulation on Credit-Only Courses – REG 02.20.15. Students will no longer be able to drop a class after the Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline for a given term. All schedule revisions made after the Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline require a Schedule Revision form for processing. Key Implications: Students will no longer be able to submit a grading basis change or a late drop request after completing a class and/or the semester. Not all classes taken for credit only (S/U) may apply to a student’s degree plan. Many, or most, academic programs limit the number of S/U credits allowed to be applied to a degree plan. Students should work with their advisors to determine whether taking a class for credit only (S/U) is appropriate for their degree plan. All other course drop policies and implications for all students, including regarding financial aid and academic eligibility, remain in effect. Students should refer to the Academic Calendar for all course add, drop and revision deadlines. For Spring 2021 and Earlier Dates, Deadlines and Instructions for Spring 2021 Requests What is the deadline to submit a late drop request for my Spring class? The deadline to submit late drop requests for Spring 2021 classes is Monday, May 24, which is twelve (12) days after spring grades are due. How do I submit a late drop request for my Spring class? Prior to Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline: The Late Drop Request is not available prior to the Drop/Schedule Revision deadline. You can drop a class by following these steps: 1. Log into MyPack Portal 2. Navigate to your Student Homepage 3. Select the ‘Planning & Enrollment’ tile 4. Select the ‘Enrollment Wizard’ 5. In the ‘My Schedule’ tab, select the ‘Drop’ box next to the appropriate course(s). Select the ‘Drop’ button and confirm the action. After Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline: To submit a Late Drop Request for a Spring 2021 class after the Drop/Schedule Revision deadline, follow these steps: 1. Log into your MyPack Portal 2. Navigate to your Student Homepage 3. Select the ‘Planning & Enrollment’ tile 4. From the left-hand navigation menu, select ‘COVID-19 Schedule Revision’ 5. In the ‘Request Drop’ column for the selected class(es), toggle the button to select ‘Yes.’ 6. Select the ‘Submit’ button above your class list. (Justification is required if submitting a request for a Late Drop.) For Graduating Students If I’m a graduating student, can I submit a late drop request after my degree has been posted? No. Once your degree has been posted, you will no longer be able to submit a late drop request. It is important to ensure all requests are submitted prior to the beginning of degree posting. If I’m a graduating student, what if my grades have not been submitted prior to the beginning of degree posting? Graduation clearance and the posting of degrees runs for 30 days after commencement in order for late grades to be posted, transfer credit received and processed, and the resolution of other issues or requirements. It is advisable for graduating seniors to sign up for the text messaging service that lets you know when a grade has been posted if you are considering a late drop in a course based on the grade received. You can sign up for this service in your MyPack Portal: Student Homepage > Personal Information tile > Text/Email Notification Setup. Enhanced Late Drop Request Guidelines and Policies Who should I consult before I consider dropping a course for the term? Consult with the instructor of your course(s) and your academic advisor in order to identify alternative options that may be available and the effect of dropping a course. Is there an approval process for a late drop request? Yes, at the undergraduate level course drops are approved by the student’s College Dean’s Office. At the graduate level the drop will be approved by the student’s DGP and the Graduate School. Veterinary Medicine late drops are approved by the CVM Dean’s office. Students will be notified via email whether the request to drop each class was approved or denied. Can I drop below full-time status to part-time with a late drop request? Yes, you can drop below full time status, however there are populations of students who should receive a consultation and/or carefully consider the effects of dropping below full-time. For students receiving financial aid, you may be required to confirm participation in the course with your instructor and the, Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Additionally, if you drop below half-time we may report a new enrollment status and you may potentially move towards loan repayment. If you are an international student you will want to contact the Office of International Services before submitting a request to drop below full time status. Graduate Students on GSSP should NOT drop below full-time. Graduate Students with significant extenuating circumstances considering dropping below full time should discuss the situation with your DGP. Athletes need to contact Academic Support Program for Student-Athletes and students receiving VA Education Benefits can contact the Veterans Education Benefits team. I am an International Student. Will dropping classes for the term impact my visa status? Dropping a course can impact your visa status and you should consult with the Office of International Services (OIS) before submitting a request. More information is available on the OIS website and their Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQ page. Will I receive a refund if I drop a class through the late drop request process? No, refunds will not be offered for late drop requests. Will I receive a W grade for the course? Yes, but the W grade will not count against the 16 hour limit at the undergraduate level. Will a late drop impact my Satisfactory Academic Progress? Yes, late drops may negatively impact Satisfactory Academic Progress. Please consult with your advisor before performing a late drop. Students who fail to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress standards will be notified at the end of the term and will be granted the opportunity to appeal to continue in the next term. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.