Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Withdrawal Process and Timeline The process to prepare your withdrawal request will differ depending on the time at which you plan to withdraw from classes. Withdrawing Prior to Start of Term Students who are enrolled, but do not plan to attend any courses for a future term, should initiate a term withdrawal in order to notify the university that they will not be attending for an upcoming Spring or Fall term. Consult with your advisor before initiating a withdrawal to discuss the academic implications of the intended withdrawal. Initiate your term withdrawal request through the MyPack Portal: Student Homepage > Planning & Enrollment tile > Term Withdraw menu item. Withdrawing Prior to Drop/Revision Deadline A current semester withdrawal prior to the drop/revision deadline removes you from all courses in a current semester. Undergraduate student withdrawals after the first day of classes, but prior to census date are recorded on the transcript with the notation “Term Withdrawal.” Withdrawals after census are recorded on the transcript and dropped courses are noted with a grade of “W.” All courses graded with “W” count towards attempted hours for Satisfactory Academic Progress calculations. Consult with your advisor before initiating a withdrawal to discuss the academic implications of the intended withdrawal. Initiate your term withdrawal request through the MyPack Portal: Student Homepage > Planning & Enrollment tile > Term Withdraw menu item. Withdrawing After Drop/Revision Deadline A current semester withdrawal after the drop/revision deadline removes you from all courses in a current semester. Withdrawals after the drop/revision deadline are approved by the university only under extenuating circumstances. Documentation is required to support these requests. The documentation must provide evidence that the extenuating circumstances were unforeseeable and unavoidable and caused a serious disruption in academic functioning. Submission of a withdrawal request after the drop/revision deadline is not guaranteed approval. Students should have contingency plans in place in case a withdrawal request is delayed or denied. Consult with your advisor before initiating a withdrawal to discuss the academic implications of the intended withdrawal. Organize the details of your case. It’s often helpful to write a statement detailing the grounds for your request to withdraw (for example, what occurred, when it occurred, how it affected you, and what you have done or plan to do about it). Organize your documentation to verify the facts of your request. You can obtain documentation from your healthcare or mental health provider by giving them this form. Initiate your term withdrawal request through the MyPack Portal: Student Homepage > Planning & Enrollment tile > Term Withdraw menu item. Term withdrawal requests can be initiated through the MyPack Portal up to 30 days after the last day of the term. Withdrawal requests after the Drop/Revision deadline require the approval of the Associate Dean of your college. There is no guarantee of approval so it is recommended that you have a contingency plan in mind in the event of a denial. Notification of the approval or denial of withdrawal requests will be communicated to students via their NC State email address. Students who are denied their request for a Term Withdrawal have the right to appeal the decision. Information regarding the process for the appeal is available via a link in the denial notification email. Appeals must be filed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the notification of denial. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.