Skip to Content Community Standards Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Report a Concern Contact Annual Security Report Hours of Operation and COVID-19 Operating Procedure Media Request Meet Our Staff Forms Additional Policies Student Conduct Statistics Student Handbook University Conduct Board Conduct Handbook Processes & SanctionsExpand Collapse section Conduct Process Procedural Advisement Resources and Help Return from Suspension Sanctions Student FAQ Transcript Notation File a Complaint Bias ResponseExpand Collapse section What is Bias? Report Bias Bias Education Campus Resources FamiliesExpand Collapse section Parents & Families FAQ Parental Notification Resources for Parents Sexual & Relationship ViolenceExpand Collapse section Amnesty Policy Conduct Process Consent Reporting Options SRV Policy SRV Resource Guide Student Bill of Rights Transcript Notation Search Search Home Processes & Sanctions Sanctions Sanctioning Guidelines - Community Standards Sanctioning Guidelines Sanctioning guidelines have been adopted by Syracuse University to respond to substance abuse-related and other serious violations of the Code of Student Conduct. Syracuse University seeks to deter students from engaging in conduct that poses risks to the safety and well-being of the individual student and/or the University community as a whole. Sanctioning guidelines are intended to alert students and other members of the University community to the seriousness of the following types of violations: The Following Sanctioning Guidelines are in Effect for the 2021-2022 Academic Year: Link Sanctioning Guidelines for Substance-Related Violations Link Category First Violation Second Violation Third Violation Use, possession, or purchase of alcohol under Prohibited circumstances Use or possession of alcohol under prohibited circumstances Disciplinary Warning and educational activities including: Community Involvement referral and/or Educational project(s). Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and Community Involvement referral and/or other educational project(s). Suspension Supplying alcohol to underage person(s). Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Community Involvement referral or Community Service project(s) and/or Educational project(s). Suspension Suspension Expulsion Extreme alcohol intoxication posing a substantial risk to the health and well-being of self and/or others. Disciplinary Warning and educational activities including: Options Program referral and Educational assignments. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and Community Involvement referral and/or other educational project(s) Residential relocation. Suspension Manufacture or sale of alcohol under prohibited circumstances. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Community Involvement referral or Community Service project(s) and/or Educational project(s). Suspension Suspension Expulsion Driving any motor vehicle while intoxicated or while under the influence of unlawful drugs. Suspension Suspension or Expulsion Suspension Expulsion Use or possession of marijuana or marijuana paraphernalia. Disciplinary Warning and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement; Community Service referral and/or Other Educational project(s). Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement; Community Service referral and/or Other Educational project(s). Suspension Manufacture, sale, purchase, or distribution of marijuana or marijuana paraphernalia Disciplinary Probation with educational activities or suspension Suspension Suspension Expulsion Use or possession of illegal drugs other than marijuana or controlled substances without an appropriate prescription. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement; Community Service referral and/or Other Educational project(s). Suspension Suspension Expulsion Extreme drug intoxication or abuse-related behavior posing a substantial risk to the health and well-being of self and/or others. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement referral and/or Other Educational project(s) Residential relocation. Suspension Suspension Expulsion Manufacture, sale, purchase, or distribution of illegal drugs or controlled substances other than marijuana. Suspension or Expulsion Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Weapons-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Possession of a prohibited weapon or other dangerous object, including, but not limited to firearms, BB-guns, sling shots, airsoft guns, air rifles, explosive devices, fireworks, or any other dangerous, unlawful, or hazardous object or material Disciplinary Probation, Suspension, or Expulsion. Expulsion from student housing. Community Service and/or other Educational sanctions. Any improper use, attempted use, or threat of use of a weapon or other dangerous, illegal, or hazardous object; any improper use as a weapon of any otherwise permitted object or material. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Violence-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Physical harm or threat of physical harm without a weapon resulting in little or no physical injury to involved persons. Disciplinary Probation or Suspension. Participation in the Conflict Resolution Program, and the Options Program referral if alcohol or other drugs were a factor in the incident. Community service and/or other educational sanctions Physical harm without a weapon resulting in significant physical injury to another person. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Safety and Fire-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Tampering with smoke detectors in on campus residential facilities. Disciplinary Warning, educational projects, and residential probation. Interference with, improper activation of, or damage to any elevator or safety or emergency equipment, including, but not limited to: fire alarms, fire extinguishers, sprinkler systems, and blue lights; lighting any unauthorized fire on University property. Disciplinary Probation with appropriate educational sanctions or Suspension. Sanctioning Guidelines for Gender Related Violence/Harassment Link Category Sanction Sexual harassment including unwanted sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and some visual and physical conduct of a sexual nature; Stalking. Suspension or Disciplinary Probation with appropriate educational projects. Sexual assault, including, but not limited to sexual touching without consent, forcible touching; stalking with threats of harm; use of physical violence in a dating or sexual relationship. Suspension or Expulsion Sexual intercourse without consent. Suspension or Expulsion Retaliation against an individual who has filed a report of gender related violence/ harassment. Suspension or Expulsion or Disciplinary Probation with appropriate educational projects. Sanctioning Guidelines for Bias-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Evidence that the student’s conduct was motivated by bias regarding an individual or group’s real or perceived race, color, creed, religion, sex, gender, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, marital status, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, and/or veteran status may result in more severe disciplinary action through the student conduct process. Disciplinary Probation or Suspension Evidence that a student’s conduct was motivated by bias and threatened physical health, mental health, or safety of anyone. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Hazing-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Assistance, participation in, promotion of, or perpetuation of hazing. Suspension or Expulsion Knowledge of hazing and failing to report or intervene in a situation that threatens the health and safety of another individual. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Student Leaders Link Category Sanction For student leaders, failure to intervene or notify the University when a student knows of a situation that threatens the health and safety of another individual or the campus community. Disciplinary Probation and educational sanctions For student leaders, participating and or assisting in a situation that threatens the health and safety of another individual or the campus community. Disciplinary Probation and educational sanctions or Suspension Sanctioning Guidelines for Perpetuating an Unrecognized Organization Link Category Sanction Assistance, participation in, or promotion of a student organization that has lost University recognition on a temporary or permanent basis. Suspension Sanctions are designed to provide meaningful consequences for violations of University expectations and ensure that students are provided opportunities to access education, counseling, and support. In all cases, the appropriate sanctions will be determined on a case-by-case basis in light of all the circumstances. The presence of substantial mitigating or other appropriate circumstances may result in the reduction or augmentation of sanctioning guidelines. Sanctioning Guidelines for COVID-19 and Public Health Guidelines’ Violations Link All Syracuse University community members are empowered to remind and request adherence to public health guidelines. A successful and safe return to campus for the Spring 2022 semester and beyond depends on the actions of the entire University community. Students play a vital role in protecting their own safety and security, and the safety and security of their peers and all other members of the SU community, including faculty, staff and community members in areas off-campus where students reside. Syracuse University encourages all members of our community to recognize the demonstrated public health benefits of limiting person-to-person contact and avoiding large groups  to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, in compliance with the Stay Safe Pledge and other University health and safety directives. Incident reports submitted for violations of COVID-19 will be reviewed by Community Standards to determine if further investigation or conduct charges are warranted. All cases related to health and safety will be adjudicated as expeditiously as possible, typically within 5-10 business days. All cases that are likely to result in a warning or probation will be adjudicated through the informal resolution process. Cases that may result in a suspension or expulsion will be referred to a hearing. Students have the right to appeal in all cases. Evidence that an individual and/or group has violated the University’s guidance and expectations related to COVID-19 may result in serious consequences. Suspected violations that are deemed to be egregious, such as violating quarantine and/or isolation requirements, may result in an immediate interim suspension, followed by a process on the merits of the case. In addition, multiple violations across different categories – even if they are first-time violations for any category – may result in a referral to Community Standards. The following behaviors and sanctioning guidelines are in effect for the Spring 2022 semester. In all cases, the University will consider all relevant facts and circumstances prior to issuing a sanction, and the sanction may be more or less severe depending on the facts of a particular case. All outcomes listed with ‘COVID PMO’ are overseen and managed by the Syracuse University COVID Project Management Office (PMO). Questions related to these outcomes should be directed to COVID PMO at 315.443.6180 or sucovid@syr.edu. All outcomes listed with ‘OCS’ are overseen and managed by Community Standards (OCS). Questions related to these outcomes should be directed to OCS at 315.443.3728 or studentconduct@syr.edu. Category 1st Violation 2nd Violation 3rd or Greater Violation Failing to Comply with COVID-19 Surveillance Testing Requirements (including providing false information and/or withholding information during testing or contact tracing). COVID PMO: Systems block^ COVID PMO: Systems block^ COVID PMO: Warning; campus ban^; systems block^; OCS: referral to OCS with typical sanction of disciplinary probation. Other Compliance Violations (e.g., refusing to obtain a flu vaccine, refusal to wear a face mask, refusal to maintain social distance)& OCS: Referral to Student Living or OCS with typical sanction of warning OCS: Referral to OCS with typical sanction greater than 1st violation outcome OCS: Referral to OCS with typical sanction greater than prior outcomes issued Isolation or Quarantine Violation@ OCS: Referral to OCS with typical sanction of suspension OCS: Referral to OCS with typical sanction greater than 1st violation outcome OCS: Referral to OCS with typical sanction greater than prior outcomes issued * A student will be notified that they have 24 hours to comply or the identified process and consequences will proceed. ^ A campus ban means that the student will be prohibited from campus property. A systems block will include the following: access to University systems will be restricted (e.g., disabling of campus WiFi access, disabling of MySlice access, restricted from course registration, and restricted from Blackboard access). $ Students not wearing masks or maintaining social distance are expected to come into compliance immediately upon request from a University official. Failure to comply with such a request may result in a campus ban and University systems block, and/or referral to Community Standards. @ Some or all of the campus/systems blocks may remain in place throughout or after the conduct case. Amnesty for Reporting Incidents of Discrimination, Harassment, or Violence The University also wishes to promote an environment where students are not afraid to seek help for discrimination, harassment, sexual violence, and interpersonal violence due to the added fear of disciplinary repercussions for not adhering to our COVID-related standards in the context of the discrimination, harassment, or violence they seek to report. With these priorities in mind, amnesty from formal University disciplinary action related to our COVID-19 community standards will be granted to a student who is reporting sexual violence, interpersonal violence, or other violation of the University’s Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention policy. To promote the health and safety of the campus and local community, staff may be required to share information about large group gatherings with appropriate University or local officials. However, that information will be shared in a way that protects the privacy of the individual who is reporting discrimination, harassment, or violence to the University. Nothing in the provision above absolves a student from the responsibility to notify the Barnes Center of a positive test for COVID-19 so that appropriate contact tracing can be conducted. Finally, please note the University cannot guarantee amnesty from any civil or criminal legal action, or from any legal consequences arising from a student’s violation of local, state, or federal law. The Following Sanctioning Guidelines were in Effect for the 2020-2021 Academic Year: Link Sanctioning Guidelines for Substance-Related Violations Link Category First Violation Second Violation Third Violation Use, possession, or purchase of alcohol under Prohibited circumstances Use or possession of alcohol under prohibited circumstances Disciplinary Warning and educational activities including: Community Involvement referral and/or Educational project(s). Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and Community Involvement referral and/or other educational project(s). Suspension Supplying alcohol to underage person(s). Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Community Involvement referral or Community Service project(s) and/or Educational project(s). Suspension Suspension Expulsion Extreme alcohol intoxication posing a substantial risk to the health and well-being of self and/or others. Disciplinary Warning and educational activities including: Options Program referral and Educational assignments. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and Community Involvement referral and/or other educational project(s) Residential relocation. Suspension Manufacture or sale of alcohol under prohibited circumstances. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Community Involvement referral or Community Service project(s) and/or Educational project(s). Suspension Suspension Expulsion Driving any motor vehicle while intoxicated or while under the influence of unlawful drugs. Suspension Suspension or Expulsion Suspension Expulsion Use or possession of marijuana or marijuana paraphernalia. Disciplinary Warning and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement; Community Service referral and/or Other Educational project(s). Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement; Community Service referral and/or Other Educational project(s). Suspension Manufacture, sale, purchase, or distribution of marijuana or marijuana paraphernalia Disciplinary Probation with educational activities or suspension Suspension Suspension Expulsion Use or possession of illegal drugs other than marijuana or controlled substances without an appropriate prescription. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement; Community Service referral and/or Other Educational project(s). Suspension Suspension Expulsion Extreme drug intoxication or abuse-related behavior posing a substantial risk to the health and well-being of self and/or others. Disciplinary Probation and educational activities including: Options Program referral and/or Community Involvement referral and/or Other Educational project(s) Residential relocation. Suspension Suspension Expulsion Manufacture, sale, purchase, or distribution of illegal drugs or controlled substances other than marijuana. Suspension or Expulsion Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Public Health - Related Violations Link Category Sanction I. Evidence that a student intentionally violated public health guidelines (i.e. maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask). Disciplinary Warning or Disciplinary Probation. Appropriate educational sanctions. II. Evidence that a student or student organization put the Syracuse community at significant health risk due to egregious violation of public health guidelines (i.e. hosting or attending unauthorized events, gatherings, parties; violating quarantine and/or isolation requirements); repeated violations of Category I. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Weapons-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Possession of a prohibited weapon or other dangerous object, including, but not limited to firearms, BB-guns, sling shots, airsoft guns, air rifles, explosive devices, fireworks, or any other dangerous, unlawful, or hazardous object or material. Disciplinary Probation, Suspension, or Expulsion. Expulsion from student housing. Community Service and/or other educational sanctions. Any improper use, attempted use, or threat of use of a weapon or other dangerous, illegal, or hazardous object; any improper use as a weapon of any otherwise permitted object or material. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Violence-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Physical harm or threat of physical harm without a weapon resulting in little or no physical injury to involved persons. Disciplinary Probation or Suspension. Participation in the Conflict Resolution Program, and the Options Program referral if alcohol or other drugs were a factor in the incident. Community service and/or other educational sanctions. Physical harm without a weapon resulting in significant physical injury to another person. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Safety and Fire-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Tampering with smoke detectors in on campus residential facilities. Disciplinary Warning, educational projects, and residential probation. Interference with, improper activation of, or damage to any elevator or safety or emergency equipment, including, but not limited to: fire alarms, fire extinguishers, sprinkler systems, and blue lights; lighting any unauthorized fire on University property. Disciplinary Probation with appropriate educational sanctions or Suspension. Sanctioning Guidelines for Gender Related Violence and Harassment Link Category Sanction Sexual harassment including unwanted sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and some visual and physical conduct of a sexual nature; Stalking. Suspension or Disciplinary Probation with appropriate educational projects. Sexual assault, including, but not limited to sexual touching without consent, forcible touching; stalking with threats of harm; use of physical violence in a dating or sexual relationship. Suspension or Expulsion Sexual intercourse without consent. Suspension or Expulsion Retaliation against an individual who has filed a report of gender related violence/ harassment. Suspension or Expulsion or Disciplinary Probation with appropriate educational projects. Sanctioning Guidelines for Bias-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Evidence that the student’s conduct was motivated by bias regarding an individual or group’s real or perceived race, color, creed, religion, sex, gender, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, marital status, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, and/or veteran status may result in more severe disciplinary action through the student conduct process. Disciplinary Probation or Suspension Evidence that a student’s conduct was motivated by bias and threatened physical health, mental health, or safety of anyone. Suspension or Expulsion Sanctioning Guidelines for Hazing-Related Violations Link Category Sanction Assistance, participation in, promotion of, or perpetuation of hazing. Suspension or Expulsion Knowledge of hazing and failing to report or intervene in a situation that threatens the health and safety of another individual. Suspension or Expulsion More from this Section Sanctions for All Conduct Cases University Disciplinary Statuses Change in Status Residential Statuses and Stipulations Educational Sanctions Disciplinary Probation for Academic Career Petition 804 University Avenue, Suite 106, Syracuse, New York 13244-5040 | p: 315.443.3728 | e: studentconduct@syr.edu © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy