Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Student Enrichment Opportunities Medical students at Brown are encouraged to pursue independent scholarship in a field of interest related to medicine. Sub Navigation In This Section Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Student Enrichment Opportunities Medical students at Brown are encouraged to pursue independent scholarship in a field of interest related to medicine. Enrichment Programs Students may undertake research, advocacy, or creative work through a number of programs at Brown. Basic Translational Research Program The Basic and Translational Research (BTR) Program is a longitudinal experience that includes didactic training and a mentored research experience. Visit Page Open details for Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships First- and second-year-students may pursue intensive summer projects under the mentorship of a Brown faculty member. Visit Page Open details for Summer Assistantships Other Research and Study Opportunities Summer Opportunities Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute The Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is pleased to announce the Hassenfeld Summer Scholars Program for Brown University trainees. The program is made possible through the generous support of the family of Alan Hassenfeld. Selected Scholars will participate in a full-time, 10 week internship with the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Initiative and receive a $4,000 stipend. The Hassenfeld Summer Scholars Program embraces Brown’s “learning by doing” approach to engaged scholarship. This provides Hassenfeld Scholars the opportunity to make meaningful contributions to the work of the Institute while gaining the knowledge, skills, perspective and experience they will need to become the next generation of child health leaders. Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Kaiser Permanente Northern California Introduction to Integrated Health Care (KPNC IIHC) Program KPNC IIHC is a 4-week summer program for rising second-year medical students interested in culturally-sensitive care in an integrated health care system. Students will learn through hands-on shadowing opportunities and weekly didactic sessions with Kaiser Permanente providers in various specialties. The selected participants will be eligible to receive a stipend up to $3,250 to offset travel, housing and local transportation costs. Introduction to Integrated Health Care Program International Opportunities Carolan Research Fellowship in Rwanda We are excited to announce that the Brown Division of Global Emergency Medicine is now recruiting for the Tina and Richard V. Carolan Rwanda Research Fellowship. This is an excellent opportunity for an aspiring medical/public health student to gain meaningful experience in global emergency care research. This is a full-time 10-12 month position based in Kigali, Rwanda. All living and travel expenses as well as health insurance are covered as part of this fellowship. Past fellows have been medical students taking a gap year between 3rd and 4th year but this opportunity is also available to Master of Public Health students, or medical students from other years/recent graduates as well. Minimum time commitment is 10 months. Carolan Rwanda Research Fellowship Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia: Anemia Research Assistant (Dominican Republic) In 2009, building on years of collaboration with the leadership of the town of Consuelo, Dominican Republic, CHOP opened a flagship pediatric clinic in the Centro de Salud Divina Providencia, called Niños Primeros en Salud (“Kids First in Health”) or NPS. NPS seeks a Research Assistant to live and work in the Dominican Republic for between 6 weeks and one year, to assist with data collection, study coordination, participant follow-up, and data analyses for two ongoing IRB-approved studies further investigating a 2015 finding that over half of NPS-followed children were anemic. Medical students are eligible for Center for Global Health travel stipends. Housing is included. Eligible Applicants: Must be fluent in Spanish, able to commit to living in the Dominican Republic for a minimum of 6 weeks to one year, and have some familiarity with data entry and data management using software such as REDCap, Excel, Access, Stata, etc. Some experience living/working in low-resourced settings and/or cross-cultural situations is desired, but not required. Anemia Research Assistant CIEE Teaching Abroad Interested in teaching in countries such as Chile, China, Spain, or Thailand for a year? This program allows students to live and work overseas while learning and interacting with the local people, culture and language. CIEE negotiates a placement teaching English, offers a local stipend and temporary housing. Eligible Applicants: Bachelor's degree, English fluency, teaching experience preferred but not required Deadline: Varies by location CIEE Teaching Abroad International Volunteer HQ At International Volunteer HQ, we’re proud to support medical students and professionals to broaden and enhance their perspectives of global health, while providing vital support to underserved communities around the world. International Volunteer HQ’s affordable medical volunteer abroad programs provide healthcare volunteers with the opportunity to work alongside medical professionals at the frontline of promoting better health and wellbeing outcomes within communities abroad. International Volunteer HQ Unite For Sight's High Impact Volunteer Abroad Opportunities Volunteer abroad in all, winter, spring or summer quarters in Ghana, Honduras or India. Assist eye doctors in rural villages, refugee camps and slums to provide eye care for patients living in extreme poverty. Volunteers encouraged to be proactive in developing their own projects and programs that coincide with Unite For Sight's outreach program. Unite for Sight Clinical Electives Away Elective Scholarship The University of Minnesota is committed to achieving excellence through equity and diversity. We value having a diversity of views and experiences that enrich our academics and our profession as a whole. With this scholarship the Department of Orthopedic Surgery in conjunction with the Medical School has the goal of creating an atmosphere where differences are valued leads to the training of a culturally competent healthcare workforce qualified to meet the needs of the varied populations we serve. Away Elective Scholarship Harvard Visiting Clerkship Program The Visiting Clerkship Program (VCP) provides support for fourth-year and qualified third-year minority (African American, Native American, and Hispanic American) medical students to participate in the HMS Exchange Clerkship Program. VCP is designed to increase medical student awareness of opportunities in academic medicine; to increase student consideration of academic training programs for internship and residency; and especially to increase the number of minority students applying to HMS-affiliated hospital training programs. Clerkships are four weeks in length and are available, space permitting, to full-time fourth-year students in good standing at accredited US medical schools. Third-year students who have completed their last quarter core clerkships in medicine, surgery, pediatrics, and obstetrics are also eligible. VCP participants are assigned a faculty advisor and offered opportunities to network with HMS faculty, house staff and students. Financial assistance (up to $400) is available toward transportation costs to and from Boston. Housing is also provided. Eligible Applicants: 4th year and qualified 3rd year underrepresented minority (African American, Native American, and Hispanic American) medical students Deadline: varies according to rotation dates; generally four months prior to rotation month Harvard Visiting Clerkship Program Health Equity Visiting Clerkship The Health Equity Visiting Clerkship is a 4-week clerkship sponsored by the Office for Health Equity and Inclusion (OHEI) at the University of Michigan Health System. The aim is to promote the development of medical students interested in health equity and inclusion work. The Office for Health Equity and Inclusion leads efforts, advises on best practices, and coordinates initiatives to enhance inclusion, increase diversity, and promote equity across the institution for our patients, staff, faculty and learners. Health Equity Visiting Clerkship Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Elective Program The Memorial Center is an academic medical center dedicated to cancer research, patient care, and education. The Memorial Hospital faculty is offering clinical electives to FINAL year medical students. This program is highly competitive so applications should demonstrate superior academic and supporting credentials. Eligible Applicants: Fourth-year medical students Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Elective Program Minority Senior Scholarship Program The Minority Senior Scholarship Program (MSSP) was established in 2015 to address the goal of enhancing the diversity of academic pediatricians through exposing senior medical students from races and ethnicities underrepresented in medicine (URM) to academic pediatrics. Through advanced clinical exposure, networking, mentoring, and special sessions, participants are armed with the resources and information needed to confidently make decisions regarding their future training and to better serve diverse populations of children. The MSSP is an opportunity for fourth year medical students applying to pediatrics to rotate at Children’s National in Washington DC and gain exposure to academic pediatrics at a large, free standing children’s hospital. Our scholars receive supplemental mentorship, networking opportunities with current residents, exposure to our competitive Pediatric Residency Program, as well as a stipend to offset the costs of travel and housing. Minority Senior Scholarship Program National Institutes of Health Clinical Electives Program for Medical Students The National Institutes of Health (the largest biomedical research agency in the world) offers an extensive range of clinical research training to help prepare the next generation of clinician-scientists. NIH’s Clinical Electives Program offers short term, 4- to 12-week clinically oriented rotations for senior medical and dental students; unique mentored specialty/subspecialty clinical research rotations are also available for combined program students (i.e., MD/PhD, DO/PhD). NIH Clinical Electives Program Visiting 4th Year Medical Student Clerkship - Johns Hopkins The Chairman of Medicine and the Chair of the Diversity Council invites 4th year medical students who are from groups under-represented in medicine, including under-represented minorities and persons from disadvantaged backgrounds, who intend to pursue a career in internal medicine or its sub-specialties, to apply for our visiting clerkship program. The clerkship exposes medical students to career opportunities available in an academic medical center and includes: an assigned faculty mentor, exposure to research programs (emphasizing those focused on underserved populations), service learning opportunities through community outreach programs and assistance in preparing for the residency interviews. A stipend is provided on a highly competitive basis. Johns Hopkins Medical Student Clerkship Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis Visiting Elective Program The goal of the Visiting Elective Program through the Office of Diversity Programs is to enhance the exposure of students considering careers in academic medicine to the Washington University Medical Center, while promoting cultural diversity on the medical school campus. Students who are members of groups underrepresented in medicine or who are socioeconomically disadvantaged are strongly encouraged to apply to the program. They are eligible to participate in one four-week elective. In addition, applicants must have a demonstrated background in enhancing service to disadvantaged groups and current experience in activities related to providing care to the underserved. Eligible Applicants: 4th-year medical students in good standing at LCME-accredited school Visiting Elective Program Annual Conferences and Meetings CityMatCH Maternal and Child Health Leadership Conference Next fall, CityMatCH and more than 800 leaders in urban maternal and child health will make their way to Providence, RI—the Ocean State—for the CityMatCH Maternal and Child Health Leadership Conference. This year features a unique twist, as CityMatCH partners with the Rhode Island Health Equity Summit, organized by the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH). Health Equity is a core value that CityMatCH elevates every year at its annual conference. Conference will intentionally spend an entire day showcasing how communities nationwide are prioritizing health equity to build healthier, more resilient, and more just communities. Maternal and Child Health Leadership Conference Eastern-Atlantic Student Research Forum The Eastern-Atlantic Student Research Forum (ESRF) is a four-day scientific meeting hosted by the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. Qualified medical students, MD/PhD and graduate students, and residents/interns are eligible to participate in the presentation of original basic science and clinical research. Our aim is to promote collegiality and encourage the pursuit of biomedical research among these future physicians and scientists. Presentations of original research in both oral and poster formats are sought in all areas of research. All students wishing to participate in the ESRF must submit an abstract. Presenters with approved abstracts will receive an official invitation to attend the conference. Additional guidelines for abstracts and eligibility for participation rules can be obtained on the ESRF website. Eastern-Atlantic Student Research Forum The Prague Selective The Prague Selective, has welcomed over 1,800 medical students from 28 US and 29 international medical schools, placing it among the largest and most prestigious programs of its type in the world. The program will enhance and broaden the thinking process of future physicians at a crucial stage in their development by exposing them to key insights regarding how physicians think, as well as how they practice in different countries. The program is open to all medical students. The Prague Selective WMS "Masters" of Wilderness Medicine Conference The academic program will focus on core topics in wilderness medicine with emphasis on the latest scientific literature in the field. Lectures will be delivered by recognized "Masters" in Wilderness Medicine: Paul Auerbach, Howard Backer, Timothy Erickson, Luanne Freer, and Peter Hackett. Conference will be held in Stowe, VT. Masters of Wilderness Medicine Conference Other Opportunities American College of Surgeons Medical Student Program Membership Current medical schools may apply for membership to the American College of Surgeons. This program is designed to assist students with choosing a career in surgery, residency preparation and transition from medical school to resident training in surgery. Students will be invited to attend lectures, panel discussion and various activities conducted by Fellows of the College. Eligible Applicants: Any medical student Medical Student Program Membership American Physician Scientists Association APSA strives to be the student physician-scientists' leading voice for improving educational opportunities, advancing patient-oriented research, and advocating for the future of translational medicine. APSA Home American Society of Anesthesiologists ASA provides a wealth of information for medical students such as educational resources, networking and mentor opportunities and advocacy efforts. The student membership of $10 a year includes monthly publications, free admission to the ASA ANESTHESIOLOGY® Annual Meeting, an annual anesthesiology residency program fair, residency guides, participation in the ASA Medical Student Component and much more. For questions regarding membership, visit the ASA Medical Student Component website to learn more. American Society of Anesthesiologists Clinical and Research Opportunities Database Careers in Medicine® The Clinical and Research Opportunities Database is available on the Careers in Medicine® website. It contains information about summer and year round programs in the United States and abroad that are available to medical students looking to gain valuable research and clinical experience in a desired specialty or scientific area. The database allows you to search by program type, specialty or topic, program duration and country, and includes fellowships, internships, scholarships, and grants. A short description of the program is presented along with a link to the program’s website for further information. You must have a CiM account to access the resource. Careers in Medicine® Dr. Oz Show The Dr. Oz Show invites medical students interested in public health, social media, or medical television to come join our team as a Medical Student Producer (full-time paid position, 8-9 months from August to May, located in New York City). The show relies on its medical students to make sure all information that airs is medically accurate. Students are heavily involved in the production process, by reviewing scripts, briefing Dr. Oz on medical topics before tapings, and reviewing footage before it airs to make sure it¹s medically sound. They also write radio scripts for Dr. Oz and design medical animations that air on the show. Eligible Applicants: Medical Student Producers are typically medical students who have completed their third year and who wish to take a year off before completing their coursework and beginning their residency. Candidates should have an interest in health media, but experience in a media-related field is not required. Deadline: To apply, send a brief cover letter explaining your interest in working for the show, along with a resume/CV, to Associate Medical producer Gretchen Goetz (ggoetz@zoco.com). Include the phrase “medical student producer” in the subject line of your email to ensure your application is processed. Applications are typically due in February. FASPE FASPE is an intensive, two-week study program in professional ethics and ethical leadership taking place in Berlin, Krakow, and Oswiecim (the location of the former Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz). FASPE Medical begins by examining the actions and choices of German physicians in enabling Nazi policies. It then draws on this historical example to help Medical Fellows both grasp their role as influencers in their field and in their communities as well as identify and confront the ethical issues currently facing physicians and the healthcare system. By studying professional ethics at the sites of Nazi actions, Fellows experience the importance of professional ethics in an immersive, powerful, and personal way. FASPE Application Global Emergency Medicine Internship Program The Division of Global Emergency Medicine at Brown is seeking motivated applicants with an interest in pursuing a career in global health to work as an intern on research projects within the division over the next year. The minimum time commitment for an intern is five hours per week over the course of one year. Larger time commitments for more involved project duties can be arranged and will vary with the specifics of the project. In general, interns are unpaid volunteers, though occasionally there are opportunities for small stipends through Brown University or other sources. Also, the positions do not generally involve work abroad, except in rare cases in which interns have demonstrated a sustained commitment to a division project. Most interns will be able to gain authorship on at least one abstract or publication, and sometimes more, during their time volunteering as a division intern. Global Emergency Medicine Internship Greatest Gift Organ and Tissue Donation Education Campaign Greatest Gift, Inc. is currently seeking motivated medical students to help head up a nationwide organ and tissue donation education campaign. Greatest Gift, Inc.'s medical school model is designed to educate future physicians about the processes, myths and facts about donation and transplant, as well as raise general public awareness, and help develop leadership skills along the way. We are an organization created by medical students, designed with a busy medical student's schedule in mind. We will provide interested students with all of the tools they need to set up their own student organization on their med school campus (including a sample/template constitution, budgeting help, event ideas, educational training, artwork, t-shirt ideas, your own web page and more). Eligible Applicants: all medical students Greatest Gift, Inc. Jerome H. Grossman M.D. Graduate Fellowship The Jerome H. Grossman M.D. Graduate Fellowship allows a small number of qualifying physicians and medical students to pursue a two-year master’s degree in public policy or public administration (MPP or MPA) at Harvard Kennedy School. Fellows are awarded full tuition, fees, and a living stipend for two years, as well as support to carry out summer internships. They are invited to participate in symposia, workshops, and other activities at Harvard that explore health care policy. Qualifying physicians and medical school students are encouraged to apply. Jerome H. Grossman M.D. Graduate Fellowship Medical Student and Early Investigator Awards ASH (American Society of Hematology) offers both short-term and long-term opportunities that allow aspiring hematologist in medical school or residency to conduct hands-on hematology research under supervision and mentorship of several ASH member mentors. Upon completion of a program of your choice, you will have gained valuable research experience and be connected to a network of hematology investigators across the country. ASH Awards National Institutes of Health Medical Research Scholars Program The National Institutes of Health (the largest biomedical research agency in the world) offers an extensive range of clinical research training to help prepare the next generation of clinician-scientists. The Medical Research Scholars Program is a comprehensive, year-long research enrichment program designed to attract the most creative, research-oriented medical, dental, and veterinary students to the intramural campus of the NIH in Bethesda, MD. NIH Medical Research Scholars Program Samaritans of Rhode Island Suicide Prevention Resource Center Volunteer Improve your listening skills by becoming a volunteer for The Samaritans of RI Suicide Prevention Crisis Hotline/Listening Line. A fellow Brown medical student said of the experience, “As someone who hopes to pursue a career in medicine, I know this experience will help me so much in the future, in terms of knowing how to communicate with patients and truly listen to what they are trying to tell me. I absolutely know this will make me a better physician, and I am thankful to the Samaritans for teaching me these skills.” Eligible Applicants: All medical students Suicide Prevention Resource Center Volunteer The Zetema Project The mission of The Zetema Project’s Graduate Student Fellowship Program is to invest in and cultivate the emerging US healthcare business and policy leaders of the future. We look at the members of our panel and ask ourselves: “How do we find graduate students with the potential to become such leaders? How can we foster their learning, connect them to broad and deep networks, and help them develop the key skills and relationships that will help them succeed?” Zetema Fellows are selected through a highly competitive process from leading US graduate programs in healthcare policy, medicine, business, public health, law, and journalism. At our meetings, Fellows present issue summaries, set the stage for conversation by debating each other, and participate in the discussion. Behind the scenes, Fellows conduct research, receive mentorship from our Panelists, and connect regularly with our staff to discuss content, skills-development, and future professional opportunities. The Zetema Fellowship lasts for the full calendar year and Fellows must be enrolled students for its duration. The Zetema Project Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Enrichment Opportunities Open details for Student Enrichment Opportunities Bookmark this Page