Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Longitudinal Mentoring Faculty mentors help students maintain a balanced, long-term perspective while they are immersed in the MD program. Sub Navigation In This Section Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Longitudinal Mentoring Faculty mentors help students maintain a balanced, long-term perspective while they are immersed in the MD program. Established in 2019, the Dr. Mary B. Arnold Mentors expand the advising resources available to medical students. Arnold mentors form a network of personal and professional support to students throughout their time at Brown. About Dr. Arnold Dr. Arnold passed away in December 2018, and is remembered widely by Brown alumni and colleagues as the epitome of a dedicated mentor and teacher. Her legacy lives on through the mentorship program. Arnold Mentors Paul Christopher RES'09 Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Research Profile Paul Christopher is a psychiatrist and bioethics researcher. Erica Chung MD’06 Associate Professor of Pediatrics Research Profile Erica Chung is a pediatric hospitalist at Hasbro Children's Hospital with an interest in medical education. Deus Cielo MD'96 Associate Professor of Neurosurgery Research Profile Deus Cielo is a neurological surgeon specializing in spine, brain tumors, and peripheral nerve. Tarra Evans '06 MD'10 Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery Research Profile Tarra Evans is a gynecologic oncologist also trained in palliative care. Michael Herzlinger, MD RES'14 Assistant Professor of Pediatrics Research Profile Michael Herzlinger is a pediatric gastroenterologist practicing at Hasbro Children's Hospital. Judy Jang, MD Assistant Dean of Medicine, PLME Advising, Assistant Professor of Medicine Judy Jang is a nephrologist and an advising dean in Brown's Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) Virginia Mensah, MD Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology Virginia Mensah is double board-certified in Reproductive Endocrinology, Infertility and Obstetrics & Gynecology. She is a devoted physician, committed to providing excellence in the care of her patients. Christopher Merritt, MD, MPH Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Associate Professor of Pediatrics Research Profile Chris Merritt is a pediatric emergency physician with an interest in medical education. Guy Nicastri, MD Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine Research Profile Guy Nicastri is a board-certified general surgeon who is currently practicing at Kent Hospital. Gita Pensa, MD Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Clinician Educator Research Profile Gita Pensa is an emergency physician who spent over a decade in community practice before joining Brown's faculty 2014. Alison Riese, MD MPH'14 F'14 Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Assistant Professor of Medical Science Research Profile Alison Riese is a general academic pediatrician with specialized training in injury prevention. Julie Roth '99 MD'04 Associate Professor of Neurology, Associate Professor of Medical Science Research Profile Julie Roth is a neurologist at Rhode Island Hospital. Lisa Swartz Topor, MD, MMS Associate Professor of Pediatrics Research Profile Lisa Swartz Topor is a pediatric endocrinologist at Hasbro Children's Hospital Iris Tong, MD Associate Professor of Medicine Research Profile Iris Tong is a general internist who specializes in women's health. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Longitudinal Mentoring Open details for Longitudinal Mentoring Bookmark this Page