Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Committee on the Study of Religion Search Calendars Newsletter Loeb Fellowship Forms CSR Rooms Contact HOME History of the Committee on the Study of Religion Prospective Students Apply for the PhD Doctoral Program FAQs Doctoral Job Placement Data Doctoral Doctoral Calendar Doctoral Student Profiles Graduate Student Resources Teaching & Professionalization Study of Religion as a Secondary Field Undergraduate Research Areas of Study African Religions Comparative Studies Buddhist Studies East Asian Religions Europe (Medieval and Modern) Hebrew Bible Hindu Studies Christianity Islamic Studies Jewish Studies New Testament and Early Christianity North American Religions Latin American & Caribbean Religions Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean South Asian Religions Methodologies and Approaches Archaeology Critical Theory Ethics Gender and Sexuality Studies History Literary Studies and the Arts Religious Thought (Philosophy and Theology) Social Sciences (Anthropology, Ethnography, and Political Science) Diversity People The Pluralism Project PROF. ALI ASANI describes "Giving Voice to Silenced Islams" Click for the podcast sponsored by the Alaweed Islamic Studies Program Undergraduate: Concentrating in The Comparative Study of Religion Study the human experiences that produced much of the world’s greatest literature, art & philosophy & shaped moral consciousness Ph.D. in the Study of Religion Applications for admission are now CLOSED for the 2021-2022 academic year. Doctoral Program: Frequently Asked Questions Application requirements? Financial aid? Teaching opportunities? Look here! Professor Asani discusses the role of diversity at Harvard Advice to students: Learn from diversity, click for the Gazette article Courses for Undergraduates Doctoral students: Consider Studying Religion as a Secondary Field Click here for more information Check out our outstanding job placement record! Within 5 years of graduation, 85% of our graduates are in tenure-track positions across the country and the world DYNAMIC Religion is a dynamic and powerful force in shaping cultures and complex civilizations, so understanding religion is critical for many areas of study from art, literature, and music to history, politics, and public health. GLOBAL Studying religion is exciting and demanding. The history of religions is global in scope and invites us to study the languages and cultures of the world. The currents of religion today are swift and often turbulent and require the very best analysis of scholars in the humanities and social sciences. COMPARATIVE Harvard’s programs in religious studies are distinctive for the intensive study of historical religious traditions and the insistence that such study is always, in some sense, comparative. Religious traditions have not developed in isolation, but in constant interaction with each other and in ever-new contexts. THE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS For undergraduates, we offer an array of courses introducing the Study of Religion. These lead to more specialized work in areas of the students’ own interests. For graduate students, the Committee on the Study of Religion offers the Ph.D. in a range of specialized areas. All graduate students take two common seminars, one on the history of “religion” as a subject of critical inquiry and one on contemporary conversations in the discipline of religious studies. As they move on to more specialized work, we expect our graduate students to continue thinking about how their areas of research contribute broadly to knowledge in the field. For alumni wishing to make gifts exclusively to the Study of Religion: Gifts by credit card, please click here (for general University gifts) and follow the instructions. When selecting a school/affiliate to donate to, please choose “Other” from the dropdown menu and enter a note in the “Comments/Other Designation” box with instructions that this gift should go to the “Committee on the Study of Religion”. You may include a program too (AB or PhD). Gifts by check: Harvard University, Recording Secretary’s Office, 124 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA 02138. Please make checks payable to “The President and Fellows of Harvard College” and include a note in the memo line of the check that this is for the “The Committee on the Study of Religion”. Thank you! Please contact us if you have any questions: csrel@fas.harvard.edu Home History of the CSR Virtual Resources Zoom FAQs Virtual Information Prospective Students Apply for the PhD Doctoral Program FAQs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Courses Community Concentration Options Advising Undergraduate Resources Doctoral Program Doctoral Calendar Doctoral Students Teaching & Professionalization Resources Religion as a Secondary Doctoral Field People Research Areas of Study Methodologies and Approaches Newsletter Calendars Forms Loeb Fellowship Follow us on Twitter & Instagram https://twitter.com/csrelharvardTwitter https://www.instagram.com/religion.harvard/Instagram religion-footer.png Committee on the Study of Religion Barker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138 Telephone: (617) 495-5781 csrel@fas.harvard.edu Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement