Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Enhanced Satisfactory/ Unsatisfactory Grading Option An enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) grading option was introduced on a temporary basis in the Spring 2020 semester for students enrolled in the current term for all undergraduate and graduate courses. The College of Veterinary Medicine introduced a plan appropriate for DVM courses. Students are advised to continue with your current grading basis until you have time to assess your comfort with your course delivery. Key Implications Return to Normal Policies: Summer 2021 Spring 2021 and Earlier Key Points Here are some important, key points to keep in mind about the Enhanced S/U Grading Option for students: The grading option can be applied to all graduate and undergraduate courses The S/U grade will not carry grade points and will not impact your cumulative GPA A grade of S will be assigned by the course instructor when the work is judged to be of C- quality or better A grade of S will fulfill degree requirements, C-wall requirements, CODA requirements, prerequisites for future courses at NC State, and will not count toward the allowable limit of S/U course completions A grade of U will not earn credit and will not affect a student’s GPA, though it will be used in Satisfactory Academic Progress calculations at the end of the term We suggest that students consult with their academic advisor(s) and/or instructor(s) before making this change, as it cannot be reversed. Return to Normal Grading and Drop Beginning Summer I 2021 NC State will return to normal class grading and late drop policies beginning with the Summer I 2021 semester, which includes 3-week (Maymester), 5-week I, and 10-week classes. The Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Grading Option and the Enhanced Late Drop Option that were both initially introduced for the Spring 2020 semester will no longer be provided for any enrolled NC State students after the Spring 2021 semester concludes. What does this mean? Students who wish to enroll in a class on a credit-only grading basis (S/U) should carefully review the university’s regulation on Credit-Only Courses – REG 02.20.15. Students will no longer be able to drop a class after the Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline for a given term. All schedule revisions made after the Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline require a Schedule Revision form for processing. Key Implications: Students will no longer be able to submit a grading basis change or a late drop request after completing a class and/or the semester. Not all classes taken for credit only (S/U) may apply to a student’s degree plan. Many, or most, academic programs limit the number of S/U credits allowed to be applied to a degree plan. Students should work with their advisors to determine whether taking a class for credit only (S/U) is appropriate for their degree plan. All other course drop policies and implications for all students, including regarding financial aid and academic eligibility, remain in effect. Students should refer to the Academic Calendar for all course add, drop and revision deadlines. For Spring 2021 and Earlier Dates, Deadlines and Instructions for Spring 2021 Requests What is the deadline to submit a request to change the grading basis for my Spring 2021 class to the Enhanced S/U? The deadlines to submit requests for grading basis changes for Spring 2021 classes is Monday, May 24, which is twelve (12) days after spring grades are due. *Deadlines are subject to change. How do I elect to use the Enhanced S/U Grading Option for a Spring 2021 class? Prior to Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline: In order to change the grading basis for a class that you are enrolled in prior to the Drop/Schedule Revision deadline, follow these steps: 1. Log into MyPack Portal 2. Navigate to your Student Homepage 3. Select the Planning & Enrollment tile 4. Select the Enrollment Wizard 5. Once you are enrolled in a class for spring, select the ‘Edit’ button next to the appropriate class. From the ‘Grading Basis’ dropdown menu, select ‘Sat/Unsat*’ and then select ‘Save’ to save your selection. After Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline: To perform a request for a grading basis change to Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory for a Spring 2021 class after the Drop/Schedule Revision deadline, follow these steps: 1. Log into your MyPack Portal 2. Navigate to your Student Homepage 3. Select the ‘Planning & Enrollment’ tile 4. From the left-hand navigation menu, select ‘COVID-19 Schedule Revision’ 5. In the ‘Change to Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory’ column for the selected class(es), toggle the button to select ‘Yes.’ 6. Select the ‘Submit’ button above your class list. (Justification not needed for S/U requests, and is only required if submitting a request for a Late Drop.) If I edit my grading basis to the Enhanced S/U for a Spring 2021 class prior to the Drop/Schedule Revision deadline, can I change it back to Graded? Yes. Prior to the Drop/Schedule Revision deadline, you will still be able to make changes to your schedule in your Enrollment Wizard, including being able to edit your Grading Basis for your enrolled classes. After this time, any implications of utilizing the Enhanced S/U Grading Basis through the COVID-19 Schedule Revision request as outlined throughout this page will be upheld. For Graduating Students If I’m a graduating student, can I submit a grading basis change request after my degree has been posted? No. Once your degree has been posted, you will no longer be able to submit a request. It is important to ensure all requests are submitted prior to the beginning of degree posting. When does degree posting begin? Degree posting typically begins the day after the grades due deadline for the given term. If I’m a graduating student, what if my grades have not been submitted prior to the beginning of degree posting? Graduation clearance and the posting of degrees runs for 30 days after commencement in order for late grades to be posted, transfer credit received and processed, and the resolution of other issues or requirements. It is advisable for graduating students to sign up for the text messaging service that lets you know when a grade has been posted if you are considering adjusting a course to the enhanced S/U option based on the grade received. You can sign up for this service in your MyPack Portal: Student Homepage > Personal Information tile > Text/Email Notification Setup. Enhanced S/U Guidelines and Policies Am I only allowed to submit a grading basis change request for courses that were originally delivered in-person? No, a grading basis change request can be submitted for any classes in which you are currently enrolled for the current semester, regardless of their original delivery method. Can I change the grading basis for my class back to Graded after I submit a request to change it to the Enhanced S/U option if it is before the deadline? Changes to the grading basis can only be submitted prior to the Drop/Schedule Revision Deadline. After this point, once you have submitted a request to change the grading basis to S/U for a course, you cannot later change the grading basis back to a letter grade. We encourage you to wait to submit a request until after you have consulted with your advisor. If I receive a favorable final grade in a course that I have designated as Enhanced S/U, may I later ask to substitute that grade for a letter grade? No, once you have submitted a request to change the grading basis to S/U for a course, you cannot later change the grading basis back to a letter grade. Can I submit a grading basis change request for one class now, and then submit a request for another class at a later time? Yes, you have the option of submitting a request for a class now and then subsequently submitting a request for another class or classes. Is permission required for me to change the grading basis for my class(es) to S/U? Permission is not required. Once you submit a request, the grading basis for the course will be changed to the new S/U grading basis. However, it is strongly recommended that you consult with your academic advisor(s) prior to submitting the request. If I change the grading basis for a class to the new Enhanced S/U basis, will this count against any limits on S/U classes? No. Classes for which you opt to change the grading basis to the Enhanced S/U will not count toward the limits that degree programs have on S/U credits. These courses will not count against the 12 semester hour S/U maximum for undergraduate students. Does this opportunity have any effect on classes that are already only available for S/U grading? No. Courses already being offered for only S/U grading will not change and will continue to only fulfill requirements which typically allow this grading basis. If I change the grading basis of a course required for my degree program, will the credit still apply toward my degree? Yes. If you request to change the grading basis of a course to S/U and receive an S, and this course fulfills requirements for a degree (major, minor, or certificate), the course credit will apply toward all appropriate degree requirements as if you had completed it on a graded basis. However, there are some courses or degree programs at NC State that require a grade of a B or better in order to receive credit toward a degree program; if you are enrolled in a course or active in a degree program that falls under this category, please consult with your academic advisor and the instructor for the course before submitting a request to change the grading basis to S/U, as a grade of an S is only awarded if the coursework is determined to be of a C- quality or better. What if students require letter grades for professional programs, employment or graduate studies? These are unprecedented circumstances and we are unable to predict how institutions outside of NC State will view courses completed as S/U for the given term. We do know that there are several academic institutions across the country that are utilizing this or a similar strategy, but cannot speak definitively for any of those outside of NC State. We encourage you to take careful consideration before requesting a change in grading basis to Enhanced S/U for this reason. Additionally, if you have professional programs, employment, or graduate studies in your pipeline, you may want to reach out to contacts from those organizations if you have questions about any impacts that this change in grading basis may have. How will this change in grading basis affect my GPA, should I choose to opt-in? Should your instructor determine that your coursework meets C- criteria or better, an S grade will not be calculated in your Grade Point Average, nor will it be used in the determination of academic honors. The grade of U will not be calculated in the Grade Point Average, however it will be considered a non-passing grade for Satisfactory Academic Progress purposes. Will opting into the Enhanced S/U Option have other impacts on Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) rules? Maybe. Visit the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) page on COVID-19 adjustments to learn about how calculations will be adjusted for the given term. Are these changes to the S/U rules permanent? No. These changes are for the current semesters only due to the impacts of COVID-19. Are Non-Degree Studies (NDS) students also eligible to utilize this option? Yes, Non-Degree Studies (NDS) students may also elect to change the grading basis to the Enhanced S/U basis for any classes in which they are enrolled. I am an International Student. Will changing classes to the Enhanced S/U grading basis for the term impact my visa status? As long as you remain enrolled as a full-time student, changing your enrollments to the Enhanced S/U grading basis for the semester will not impact your status. If you have questions, you should consult with the Office of International Services (OIS) before submitting a request. More information is available on the OIS website and their Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQ page. I am enrolled at NC State as a Cooperating Raleigh College, Inter-Institutional or visiting student. How will the Enhanced S/U option impact my course of study at my home institution? We encourage you to contact your home institution to determine if and/or how courses graded on a S/U basis can be applied toward your course of study. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.