Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Inter-Institutional Program The Department of Registration and Records encourages all eligible students to take part in one of the inter-institutional (II) registration programs offered at NC State. Under the Inter-Institutional Program, any enrolled degree-seeking graduate or undergraduate student (excluding non-degree students) may register for courses with appropriate approval at the following Universities: Duke University North Carolina Central University UNC- Chapel Hill UNC-Charlotte UNC-Greensboro Undergraduate students are allowed to register for II courses, provided the student is registered for at least 12 credit hours (hours at both institutions combined) during the same semester as the requested II registration. Graduate Fall and Spring Terms Graduate students are allowed to take two courses per term, provided that the student is also registered for at least one course on the NC State campus during the same semester as the requested II registration. Summer Sessions Graduate students are allowed to take one course per summer session term, provided that the student is also registered for at least one course on the NC State campus during the same session as the requested II registration. Registration is valid only for the approved course. A course change requires a new approval form. Graduate students must obtain approval from their academic advisor and complete the information on the Inter-Institutional Approval Form. Undergraduate Fall and Spring Terms Undergraduate students are allowed to take two II courses per regular term, provided the student is registered for at least 12 credit hours during the same semester as the requested II registration. Summer Sessions Undergraduate students are allowed to take one II course per summer session, provided the student is registered for at least 3 credit hours on NC State’s campus during the same session as the II registration. Undergraduate students must obtain approval from their academic advisor as well as their college’s academic dean and complete the information on the Inter-Institutional Approval Form. NOTE: If the course has registration restrictions, you will need to obtain approval from the instructor or department at the host institution. Tuition NC State will bill the student for all courses taken (including II courses) at the prevailing tuition rate. The host institution will receive no fees from the II student unless there is a special fee associated with a particular course. Grading/Reporting Undergraduate Students Grades will be reported by the registrar’s office at the visited school. The student will receive transfer credit for the courses only if they earn a grade of “C” or better. II registration courses transfer as credit hours only and are not used in the computation of the grade point average for undergraduate students. Graduate Students Graduate students receive both credit hours and grades for II registration courses. The grades received from the visited school will be converted to the NC State grading scale and added to the student’s transcript. Students are not allowed to register for II classes on a Pass/Fail or Audit basis. The grading process takes approximately 3 weeks from the time the department of Registration and Records receives the grades from the visited school. Refer to the Graduate Catalog for more information on grading. Registration NC State students wishing to take courses at a participating II school should follow these steps to register: Obtain the appropriate approval signatures and complete the Inter-Institutional Approval Form. Bring the completed Inter-Institutional Approval Form to the office of Registration and Records, 1000 Harris Hall, where your registration will then be completed between the participating universities. Register for the courses you are planning to take at your home institution before submitting the form to Registration and Records. NOTE: The last day for a student to submit an II request to the Registrar’s office is also the last day to add a course without departmental approval. This information corresponds to that term’s Academic Calendar. If a student is interested in a course that begins after this deadline due to differing university schedules or separate modules in which the course is being offered, the deadline will be the fifth day after the start of that class. Start dates will be verified with the school offering the course. A copy of your completed Approval Form will be sent to the host institution. Once their registration date opens for visiting students, they will attempt to register you. If you are closed out or denied a seat in the course due to enrollment restrictions, please notify the NC State II coordinator. You will receive confirmation of your status from the host institution. Important: Registration in a requested course must be confirmed by the visited institution for enrollment to be complete. II courses cannot be added on a post-semester basis for any reason. Dropping To initiate a drop, please contact the II coordinator in the Registrar’s office. Resources Registration Form University Resources Course Transfer Equivalency FAQ Contact and Course Information Duke University Smith Warehouse, Bay 9, Rm A289 Phone: 919-684-2813 website | courses North Carolina Central University 108 Administrative Building Phone: (919) 530-6257 website | courses NC State University 1007 Harris Hall Phone: (919) 515-6278 website | courses UNC-Chapel Hill Suite 3100, SASB North Phone: (919) 962-3954 website | courses UNC-Charlotte King Building 1st Floor Phone: (704) 687-5505 website | courses UNC-Greensboro 1000 Spring Garden Street Phone: (336) 334-5946 website | courses Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.