Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Student Groups Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Student Groups Home Butler lawn in spring Find Your Community Take advantage of an array of cultural, academic, and athletic clubs, resources, and activities. Add Your Org to the Directory If You Already Have a Site Email [email protected] with a link to your site and Student Group Directory in the subject line. Your site must be on the columbia.edu domain. Not on the Columbia Domain? That's okay. Dot orgs, .coms, and .nets are not eligible for inclusion, but you can get a free site on the columbia.edu domain. Learn how below. You Need a Site If your group's faculty or administrative sponsor approves of your site request, your group is eligible for a free site. Learn more below. Request a Site for Your Club Follow these steps to get a free site for your organization. All sites offered through this program are built on the Columbia Sites platform and will live on the studentgroups.columbia.edu domain. All student group sites must be fourth-level domains, e.g., mygroup.studentgroups.columbia.edu. book icon 1. Read the Acceptable Use of Information Resources Policy This policy establishes the accountability of all users of University information resources and codifies appropriate usage. star icon 2. Choose a Model There are three models; choose the one that best fits your content needs. Ask for help if you're unsure. Pro tip: Make a list of all your content first. question icon 3. Request a Site Complete this form and submit it. This info helps us make sure you get the right model and have the resources to manage a site. thumbs-up icon 4. Get Approval Your group must have approval from your student body governing board, and the group's faculty or administrative advisor must agree to sponsor your site. Approvals should be emailed to [email protected] with the name of the student group in the subject line. calendar icon 5. Sign up for Training Columbia Sites offers nine workshops. To get started, sign up for the How to Use Drupal training; it's completion is required to gain access to your site. chain icon 6. Request a URL Domain name requests are decided by a committee of University administrators. Email your request for a URL to [email protected]. Google Map Location Office of University Life208 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Ave. · New York, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close