Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Center Home Facilities Academy of Medicine Reservable Spaces Exhibition Hall Dining & Retail Maps Reservable Spaces Parking and Directions The Pavilion Student Center Reservable Spaces Student Center Map West Village Dining Maps Reservable Spaces Parking and Directions Activities SCPC Meet the SCPC Board Paper and Clay Tech Rec Event Services Plan an Event Reservable Spaces Academy of Medicine Exhibition Hall Student Center West Village Rates Academy of Medicine Exhibition Hall Student Center West Village Catering Advertise With Us Postal Services Our Team Meet Professional Team Professional Opportunities Student Opportunities Campus Jobs Post a Job Campus Center Reserve a Room Tickets Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home News Student Center Renovations Enter Final Stretch It’s been a long two years, but the new John Lewis Student Center and Stamps Commons is almost complete. While excitement for the new spaces and services builds, the campus community – especially those on campus over the summer – should be aware of temporary shutdowns in service anticipated as part of the transition. Sting Break 2022 Seeks Staff and Faculty Volunteers The Student Center Programs Council’s (SCPC) annual student appreciation carnival known as Sting Break is coming soon – an event that doesn’t happen without big rides, bigger fun, and most importantly, a big help from campus partners. This year, Sting Break will take place on Tech Green and the W21 parking lot from 6-10 p.m. on March 31, 2022. Student Center Reservations Now Open for Fall 2022 In anticipation of the newly transformed John Lewis Student Center and Stamps Commons coming online late this summer, reservations for all spaces within the newly renovated Student Center and Exhibition Hall are now open to the campus community. Student and Campus Event Centers: New Name Connects Community Services The Campus Center Project continues to progress towards completion in late summer 2022 - at the same time the team behind the buildings is growing and changing in preparation for the future. Now called the Student and Campus Event Centers team, this unit will continue to focus on providing high quality spaces for the community to work and play. Our Regular Hours of Operation Find information about hours during breaks and holidays on this page. Student Center Administration Offices - Pavilion Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sat & Sun: Closed Exhibition Hall Daily: 7 a.m. – 11 p.m.* *The Exhibition Hall will not be accessible by BuzzCard after hours, to allow for nightly cleaning. Information Desk - Exhibition Hall, 1st Floor Monday - Thursday: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. Friday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday & Sunday: 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. Post Office - Exhibition Hall, 2nd Floor Monday - Friday: 8:30 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday: 9 a.m. - noon Sunday: Closed West Village Daily: 7 a.m. – 11 p.m.* *West Village will not be accessible by BuzzCard after hours, to allow for nightly cleaning. Activities As the central hub for campus life, the Student Center provides a complete range of social, artistic, cultural, and recreational activities for both students and the campus community to enjoy. SCPC Tickets Paper and Clay Tech Rec Work for the Student Center The Student Center team relies on students to help us bring campus to life! Our student team members learn organization and customer service skills, all while serving their campus community. Student Center Jobs Campus Jobs Facebook Twitter Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Bookstore - Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech BuzzCard Center Dining Services Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center 350 Ferst Drive NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0458 Information Desk: (404) 385-4275 Student Center Office: (404) 894-2805 Fax: (404) 894-3888 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login