Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Protecting our communities — what is fentanyl? Main content start Let’s be clear about the data — the vast majority of Stanford students do NOT use drugs. We know that approximately 12% of our community has used some type of illicit substance within the past year. That puts 12% of our student body at risk for purchasing and using drugs that may be counterfeit and laced with highly lethal substances, such as fentanyl. Fentanyl Fentanyl is a highly potent (50x more potent than heroin, 100x more potent than morphine) synthetic opioid that is cheap to manufacture. If you imagine pinching just a few grains of sand between your fingers, that is a lethal dose of fentanyl. Check out more facts and FAQs about Fentanyl and fake pills here: Facts about Fentanyl In 2021, deaths from fentanyl overdoses became the leading cause of death for 18-45 year olds. The vast majority of these deaths are accidental and caused by ingesting drugs from the illicit market that are unknowingly laced with fentanyl; in other words, fentanyl poisoning. Fentanyl is often found in counterfeit pills that look identical to prescription opioids (e.g. Oxycodone, Percocet), prescription benzodiazepine medications (e.g. Xanax, Ativan, Valium), and has been found in cocaine, methamphetamine, and even cannabis from the illicit cannabis market. Expect and act as if any substance purchased on illicit markets contains fentanyl. The most important thing to know is that a single pill can kill. Whether you are experimenting, trying a pill for the first time, or you are more experienced with taking pills - if you are obtaining drugs from any source other than a licensed pharmacy or licensed dispensary, the risk of the drugs being laced with fentanyl is disturbingly high. Recent research has revealed that, nationally, in a sampling of drugs circulating the illicit market, almost HALF contained a lethal dose of fentanyl. In some localities (like northern and southern California and the northeast) this percentage is estimated to be much higher. Protect each other — seek help without fear! Good Samaritan laws in the state of California protect those who seek to help someone who has used illicit substances, even if they themselves have also used illicit substances. Similarly, the university practices Good Samaritan policies that you can read about here. Help our communities —don’t harm us. As a reminder, students are legally liable, and will be held accountable by the university and law enforcement if they provide, sell, or intentionally drug another person against their knowledge with illicit substances. This is a serious offense and is an affront to the community values we hold. Fentanyl Testing Strips — do I need them? Fentanyl testing strips (FTS) are a strip that allows a person to dissolve the substance they plan to use into a small amount of water and test if there is fentanyl in the substance. They can be a life saving harm reduction measure for certain types of drug testing. However, they are not an alternative to, or as effective as, avoiding substances acquired on the illicit market. Source matters! One should assume that any drug obtained off the illicit market could be laced with fentanyl. Fentanyl has been found in counterfeit prescription pills claiming to be things like Percocet or Xanax, but has also been found in cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine, and even more recently, in illicit market cannabis*. Lacing is not always intentional. It can happen by accident with cross contamination during production. Don’t assume that just because a source is an experienced drug user or seller that their supply isn’t laced. Remember, even celebrities with lots of money and access have been sold laced pills and have died from them. *Yes! An illicit market for cannabis still exists even though the state of California has legalized cannabis for those over 21. If you are going to use cannabis, get it from a licensed dispensary. Drug type matters! Reliability of the testing strip depends on the drug you are testing. If it’s a baggie of powder vs. a baggie of pills – that makes a difference. Why? It’s called the chocolate chip paradigm. When distributors are prepping counterfeit pills and pressing them to sell, there is no quality control. That means that each pill you get could have varying amounts of fentanyl either purposely, or due to cross contamination in the preparation stage. So, if you test one pill in the bag and the result is negative for fentanyl, it doesn’t necessarily mean there is no fentanyl in the other pills in the bag. If you are testing pills, the only way to know that your pills aren’t laced is to test the entirety of each pill individually. Each time you’d have to dissolve it completely in the required amount of water, use the strip, and then drink it as your method of use. If you are testing powder, you can shake up the powder to distribute whatever is in the powder more evenly and then test several different portions, remixing each time for best results. A negative result still isn’t a guarantee of no fentanyl in the batch because even just a few grains of fentanyl is a lethal dose. Testing strips ARE really useful when you get a positive result. A positive result means you throw away the entire batch, it’s laced with fentanyl, and you should assume the whole batch is laced. A negative result is more complicated. It doesn’t necessarily mean there isn’t fentanyl in the batch. It just means it wasn’t detected in the pill or bit of powder that you tested. It's also important to remember, fentanyl is only one type of drug that is commonly used to lace all sorts of illicit drugs. There are many other highly potent synthetic opioids and fentanyl testing strips have yet to be well tested against the newer analogs for their usefulness in detecting them. Fentanyl testing stips will only tell you if there is fentanyl in the drug. If you are going to use drugs, the safest option is to use ones that came from a trusted licensed pharmacy. Avoid online stores that front as a pharmacy! If you buy drugs off the illicit market (unlicensed online “pharmacy”, off of social media, or from a friend or dealer), and that drug tests positive for fentanyl with a strip, throw out the whole batch. It’s laced and likely deadly. Learn more about how fentanyl testing strips work here. On Campus Resources Office of Substance Use Programs, Education, and Resources (SUPER) [non-confidential] Well-Being Coaching [non-confidential] Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) [confidential] Addiction and Dual Diagnosis Clinic [confidential] Cardinal Recovery Stanford Alcohol and Other Drugs Policy Additional Resources Song for Charlie Nonprofit FentCheck: Fentanyl Testing Strips Nonprofit What is Fentanyl? Song for Charlie Video (1 minute) Expect Fentanyl County of Santa Clara Curious about your relationship to substances? Cardinal Recovery is an open and growing community ready to welcome you as you explore your past, present, and future relationship to substances. Any student, regardless of their recovery pathway, relationship, or status, is invited to participate in this community. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery via visiting the link below. Cardinal Recovery Community Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top