Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Main content start Spring 2022 Policies and Guidelines for on-campus and off-campus events Last updated: 03/22/2022 We will continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and phase-in student-led gatherings in the residences and with student organizations. Consult our COVID-19 guidance for students, Overview of Gatherings and Meetings, and Stanford Health Alerts for the most up-to-date guidelines and policies. In addition, we will comply with all state and county regulatory requirements, and public health orders. Definitions House Meeting/Residentially Sponsored Meeting: A meeting sponsored and run by residential staff open to only members of the House/dorm/graduate residence and where staff are present for the duration of the meeting. Private Residential Gathering: A social event or meeting contained within a private residence such as a dorm room, suite or apartment that does not exceed 4 times the occupancy of the room/apartment in attendance (e.g. a 2-person double may host up to 8 people or a 4-person apartment may host up to 16 people as a private residential gathering, not to exceed capacity limits set by fire code). VSO/Student Group Meetings: Any gathering of members/officers in voluntary student organizations or other recognized student groups for the purpose of discussing student group matters that (1) exceeds the occupancy limit set forth for a private residential gatherings in a private residence or (2) is held in any space other than a private residence. Registered Gathering: An event that is academic, intellectual, cultural, performative and/or social in nature sponsored by student organizations. Registered Party: An event held primarily for the purposes of student socializing, any event where the students hosting the event serve alcohol, or any gathering in a residential setting that will exceed the occupancy limit set forth for a private residential gathering. Quick Reference House Meeting/Residentially Sponsored Meetings Private Residential Gathering VSO/Student Group Meeting or Registered Gathering/Party Prior to April 1 Yes, no food or drink Yes No Beginning April 1 Yes, no food or drink Yes Yes, outdoors only Beginning April 8 Yes Yes Yes Registration Required (applies to all dates) No No Yes Details: Requirements for All Gatherings and Parties The following applies to on-campus and off-campus events. Follow all public health guidelines, including Health Alerts requirements for gatherings and meetings. Follow all current face covering policies. Keep a list of attendees present, in the event we need to do contact tracing. Please utilize the mobile check-in process in CardinalEngage. Food and drinks are preferred outdoors. Uphold Quiet Hours: Inside: After 11 p.m. Sunday-Thursday, After 1 a.m. Friday/Saturday Outside: After 10 p.m. for amplified sound, 7 days a week per the Santa Clara County Noise Ordinance. Private Residential Gatherings and House Meetings/Residentially Sponsored Meetings No registration is needed for private residential gatherings in your room/suite/apartment. Private residential gatherings must have consent of all occupants, not migrate to common spaces (including corridors/lounges) and not disrupt the rest of the building. Private residential gatherings must be contained to your assigned living space (room/suite/apartment), and must not exceed four times the occupancy in attendance. Gatherings exceeding this limit must be registered as stipulated below. You must follow all university policies, including but not limited to the Residence Agreement, Non-essential Visitors Policy, Student Alcohol and Other Drugs Policy, and local policies for use of common spaces in undergraduate residences and Row houses. In-person house meetings/residentially sponsored meetings run by residential staff (RAs/CAS) without food or drinks are currently permitted. Houses may begin serving food and drinks at house meetings beginning April 8. Voluntary Student Organizations (VSOs), Fraternity and Sorority Life, Residences Registered Gatherings & Parties Registered in-person gatherings and parties hosted by undergraduate VSOs, FSL, and residential groups in undergraduate dorms and all Row houses will be permitted outdoors beginning April 1 and permitted indoors beginning April 8 (dates subject to change). Individual spaces, including in residences, will determine locally when they welcome indoor gatherings. Registered in-person gatherings and parties hosted by graduate/professional school VSOs will be permitted outdoors beginning April 1 and will be permitted indoors beginning April 8 (dates subject to change). Individual departments/schools may set more restrictive policies. In-person gatherings/parties during Spring Quarter must be: registered in CardinalEngage 7-21 business days in advance (see party timelines and event/gathering timelines). Information on how to register in CardinalEngage is found here. Gatherings (events or parties) must be registered in CardinalEngage. Meetings are registered in CardinalEngage only if a space reservation is required through Scheduling. Some meeting spaces, including in residences, are managed locally. open to vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals alike. in compliance with university party planning guidelines and policies set by building managers/departments. If your event is only open to Stanford affiliates, defined as faculty, staff, students, postdocs, and families of students who live on campus, please continue managing your events following all current public health guidelines on the gathering website. A list of attendees’ present and contact information must be collected in the event of contact tracing. CardinalEngage has a simple solution for QR code scanning. If you would like to invite non-Stanford affiliates, which includes alumni, families, and community members, to your gatherings, you are now permitted to do so. You may allocate up to 25% of an indoor capacity for them. For example, for a room with a capacity of 100, you may allocate 25 tickets for non-Stanford affiliates, and 75 tickets for Stanford affiliates. Participants with events less than 500 people indoors will be required to show proof of COVID vaccination (no booster), or a negative LAMP or PCR test administered within 72 hours of the event. Participants with events over 500 people indoors will be required to show proof of COVID vaccination with a booster, or a negative LAMP or PCR test administered within 72 hours of the event. Programs with youth will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. For additional information on how to manage your event with non-Stanford affiliates, please refer to the gathering website. If you would like to invite non-Stanford affiliates you must do the following: Have a COVID-19 safety plan in place that includes having sufficient volunteers to manage logistics. For large events, including events in any auditoriums, multiple spaces or greater than 500 expected attendance, we recommend hiring Kinetic Events staff to assist you with managing doors, ushering, checking COVID-19 vaccination status of guests/PCR COVID-19 test results, and help enforce current public health guidelines, such as indoor masking. Visitors must review and follow all current visitor guidelines, prior to arriving on campus. A list of attendees present and contact information must be collected in the event of contact tracing. CardinalEngage has a simple solution for QR code scanning. For more information on travel guidance, see the OSE travel website and Health Alerts with updated information on Spring Quarter. Questions? If you have any questions about registered gatherings for student organizations, please contact the Office of Student Engagement. For registered parties, please contact Substance Use Programs, Education & Resources. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top