Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Winter Student Organizations Fair Jan 31, 2022 | Atlanta, GA This February, the Winter Student Organizations Fair will feature 140 of Georgia Tech’s Registered Student Organizations and provide an easy way for interested students to connect with activities on campus. Visit the Winter Organizations Fair event on Engage to RSVP and learn more. Students can look forward to two days of organization tabling for the Winter Fair. Both days of the fair will take place from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Tech Walkway. Each day will have about 70 organizations broken into categories: Wednesday, Feb. 9 Academic, Arts, Competitive, Competitive Sports, Greek organizations, and Honor Societies Thursday, Feb. 10 Civic Engagement, Cultural, Recreation, and Religious/Spiritual Download the CORQ App and present it at the Student Engagement Tent during Winter Org Fair to receive free hot cocoa and a cookie! If you're looking for a particular organization, check out this link to see which organizations are tabling and on which date. Studies have shown that students who are involved on campus have higher success in the classroom and post graduation, and are ultimately more satisfied with their undergraduate experience than peers who aren’t involved in an organization or other activity outside the classroom. It can be overwhelming to get started. Here are a few tips for students about getting involved and participating in the Winter Org Fair: Try something new. College is all about new experiences. With hundreds of organizations on campus, you can step out of your comfort zone and join something you may not have previously tried. Don’t overwhelm yourself. Don’t try to join every single organization you come across. Find the ones that you are genuinely passionate about and go from there. It’s never too late to get involved. You don’t have to be in your first year or first semester to get involved. If you didn’t get as involved your first couple years at Tech, jump in now. It doesn’t have to be hard. Be adventurous — go to the Org Fair, go to open club meetings, and use the resources that Tech provides. If you need support finding a place to start, you can always reach out to the Center for Student Engagement for advice. For More Information Contact Sara Warner Student Engagement & Well-Being sara.warner@studentlife.gatech.edu Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login