Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Student Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Search Student Affairs Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs strives to provide our students with a supportive learning environment, offering the advising and support that you need to grow as a future physician. Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs strives to provide our students with a supportive learning environment, offering the advising and support that you need to grow as a future physician. Student Support Brown's advising, mentoring, and support programs ensure that medical students thrive in all aspects of their lives. Student Enrichment Opportunities Medical students at Brown are encouraged to pursue independent scholarship in a field of interest related to medicine. Community The Warren Alpert Medical School students, faculty, and staff form a community guided by a shared commitment to improve the health and wellness of all. Events Brown offers a robust schedule of lectures, panels, concerts, exhibits, and much more. Wellness We encourage students to find a balance between academics, physical fitness, social support, and emotional well-being. Community The Warren Alpert Medical School students, faculty, and staff form a community guided by a shared commitment to improve the health and wellness of all. Visit Page Basic Translational Research Program The Basic and Translational Research (BTR) Program is a longitudinal experience that includes didactic training and a mentored research experience. Funding Opportunities The Office of Student Affairs maintains a list of funding opportunities for research - at home and abroad. Summer Assistantships First- and second-year-students may pursue intensive summer projects under the mentorship of a Brown faculty member. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Policies Support Academic Support Career Development Learning Environment Longitudinal Mentoring Enrichment Basic Translational Research Program Summer Assistantships Community Campus Resources Student Groups Student Senate Events First-Year Orientation White Coat Ceremony Match Day Commencement Records and Registration Wellness Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Affairs Open details for Student Affairs Bookmark this Page