Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the Vice Provost Susie Brubaker-Cole Connect Further with the Vice Provost Student Affairs Initiatives Core 10 Student Org Policies End-of-quarter update on alcohol and drugs Mental Health & Well-Being Initiatives Supporting Student Mental Health Fostering a Culture of Well-Being Trees Together Neighborhoods: 2022-23 Updates Neighborhood Life The First Year The Sophomore Year Junior & Senior Year Disability Needs University Theme Houses Our Most Important Work Protected Harm Identity Social Life Accelerator Task Force Charge & Membership How to Get Involved History Class Year Return Project Class of 2022 Opening Event of the Arbor Farm Days Swag Senior Nights Class of 2023 Welcome Back Event Student Organization & Engagement Fair Food Trucks Casino Night Winter Warm-Up Class of 2024 Sophomore Welcome Our Families Student Organization & Engagement Fair Newsletters Sophomore Convocation Scavenger Hunt Sophomore Formal Stanford Against Hate Stanford Against Hate: Disclaimer & Acknowledgments Harassment Tender Loving Care What Can I Do? Anti-Black Racism Anti-Latiné Hatred Anti-Indigenous Hate Anti-Asian Racism Antisemitism Islamophobia Fighting Sexism Fighting Homophobia & Transphobia Fighting Anti-Immigrant Hate & Xenophobia Fighting Ableism Fighting Classism Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Student Affairs News Task Force on Students with Disabilities Charge for Disability Task Force Disability Task Force Membership Vice Provost Office Staff About Student Affairs About Administration Margaret Dyer-Chamberlain About the Chief of Staff and Assistant Vice Provost Jenn Calvert About the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Jan Barker-Alexander Dean of Students Mona Hicks About Inclusion, Community and Integrative Learning Emelyn dela Peña About Learning Technologies & Spaces Richard Webber About Student and Academic Services Johanna Metzgar About Student Health James Ralph Jacobs Resources for Our Communities Alcohol and Other Drugs Allcove Bechtel International Center Black Lives Matter Resources and Support Advocate and Donate Education Self and Community Care Standing for Justice and in Community for George Floyd Stanford Campus Community Statements of Support Stanford Community Vigil for Black Lives We Want to Hear from You The Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) COVID-19 Guidance for Students Step-by-Step Guide to Covid Isolation Tiers What to do when you or a close contact test positive Guidance for undergraduates who test positive for COVID-19 Guidance for graduates, professional students and postdocs guidance who test positive for COVID-19 What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing Accountability Guidance on isolation Isolation for Undergraduates Information for undergraduates who will isolate in their rooms Information for undergraduates who will check into an isolation space What to do when your roommate, apartment-mate or suitemate tests positive Guidance for sharing living spaces Isolation for graduate and professional students, postdocs, and some undergraduates Ending your isolation period COVID Exposure and Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Color Testing, Vaccination and Health Check Requirements COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Undergraduate Students COVID-19 Testing & Health Check Guidance for Graduate and Professional Students Vaccination Requirement and FAQs Booster Shot Information Stanford Student Gatherings and Parties Travel & Return Testing Guide COVID-19 Online Communications Toolkit The Flourish The Flourish, October 2021 The Flourish, Winter 2021 The Flourish, February 2022 The Flourish, March 2022 How to Practice Good Sleep Hygiene The Flourish, April 2022 The Flourish, April 2022: In Focus The Flourish, April 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, April 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, April 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, April 2022: Sleep Corner The Flourish, May 2022 The Flourish, May 2022: In Focus The Flourish, May 2022: How is Life Tree-Ting You? The Flourish, May 2022: Tip of the Month The Flourish, May 2022: In the Spotlight The Flourish, May 2022: Sleep Corner Graduate Student Support Resources Harassment & Hate Towards Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders during COVID-19 The Jed Foundation Loneliness & Connection Mental Health Resources at Stanford Office for Religious & Spiritual Life (ORSL) Office of Accessible Education Protected Identity Harm Reporting Red Folder Red Folder Stanford Against Hate Trees Together, Transition Together Undergraduate Student Support Resources Well-Being at Stanford Vaden Health Services Events Student Affairs News Jan Barker-Alexander Main content start Contact P: 650.353.0735 E: jbarker@stanford.edu Jan Barker Alexander is an award-winning higher education professional with more than two decades of experience who has created programs that serve as a national model for intellectual engagement, cultural awareness, leadership development, and social justice. She currently serves as Assistant Vice Provost of Student Affairs and Executive Director of the Centers of Equity, Community, and Leadership (ECL). (Asian American Activities Center, Black Community Services Center, El Centro Chicano y Latino, Queer Resources Center, Markaz-Community Resource Center, Native American Cultural Center, and the Women’s Community Center). The mission of ECL is grounded in values of justice, equity, and belonging at Stanford and beyond. As educators, advocates, and thought leaders, we empower students to be bold collaborators and innovative leaders preparing them to navigate a complex world with the most vulnerable in mind. She also serves as a Resident Fellow in Ujamaa House, the African American themed house on campus. Barker Alexander began her career at Louisiana State University in the Office of Admissions, where she engaged in outreach efforts that focused on several populations, including rural, urban, first-generation and low-income students. Barker Alexander joined Stanford University's Undergraduate Admissions team in 1995 as an Associate Director. She traveled nationally, representing the University while working with alumni groups on outreach efforts, and reading thousands of admissions applications. She also worked with a Diversity Team in the office to bring awareness and sensitivity to issues facing students from underrepresented groups. In 1998, Barker Alexander joined Stanford's Division of Student Affairs, where she has spearheaded many efforts that have made the University's Black Community Services Center a national model of excellence. She led, along with an Alumni Leadership Team and the National Black Alumni Association, the first-ever fundraising campaign focused on affinity giving at the institution[ECR1] that raised close to $1.3 million dollars. This campaign supported the renovation of existing space and the creation of a new 2,500 square foot multi-purpose facility and a 3,000 square foot deck for outside activities. In 2006, Barker Alexander added another responsibility to her plate: Resident Fellow at Ujamaa House. She works tirelessly to foster intellectual engagement in the dorm. She co-taught two classes, "Black Sitcoms: An Examination of Blackness on Television," and "Black Cinema: A Critique of the Portrayals of Blackness on the Silver Screen." Barker Alexander also views her role as creating opportunities for greater intellectual discovery outside of the classroom, and specifically in the residences. In March, she will take a group of students to New Orleans to examine Mardi Gras through a Black Lens. In 2011, Barker Alexander's success in building a nationally recognized program at the Black Community Services Center was recognized with a Lloyd W. Dinkelspiel Award for Distinctive Contributions to Undergraduate Education at Stanford. In 2012 she was recognized by College Board with the Asa Hilliard Model of Excellence Award at their national “A Dream Deferred” conference. She was cited for her innovative leadership and mutlti-faceted approach in molding and shaping the nation’s top scholar activists who will be poised to solve the many problems facing the Black community. Barker Alexander is from Franklinton, a small, rural town in Louisiana. She received her B.A. in Journalism from Louisiana State University and a Master's in Education from Southern University, a historically Black College and University. She is currently working on her doctorate at the University of Southern California. She is married to Frederick Alexander, her high school sweetheart and has two children. Stanford Student Affairs Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 6 Stanford, CA 94305-2072 United States vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu Report a website problem Intranet: Staff Resources Links to Central Office Staff Tresidder Meeting Services Community Centers Bechtel International Center First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Resources for Undergraduate Student Support Graduate Student Support Red Folder Vaden Health Services Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top