Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Life About What We Do Office of the Dean of Students Staff Division Directory Mission, Vision, Goals Annual Report Assessment Staff Award of Excellence Alvin M. Ferst Award Friends of Student Life Award Contact Us Departments Get Involved Ways to Get Involved Georgia Tech Arts Civic Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Opportunities Student Organizations Resources Get Help Now Academic, Financial, Personal Assistance Services Mental Health Resources Student Government Association STAR Services Disability Services Student Handbook Class Attendance Office of Student Integrity Parent and Family Resources Room Reservation Forms Speaking Request Form Helpful Links Student of Concern Policies Academic Grievance Policy Academic Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policy Student Code of Conduct Student Handbook Student Organization Alcohol Policy REQUEST ASSISTANCE REFERRAL FORM Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Food Project Making an Impact on Campus and Beyond Sep 24, 2021 | Atlanta, GA Progress and service are two constants that guide Georgia Tech’s Campus Kitchens Project in providing support and sustainable food options for our community. Started in 2013, the Campus Kitchens Project is a service within the Students’ Temporary Assistance and Resources (STAR)'s Klemis Kitchen, which brings members of the Georgia Tech community together to prepare and deliver meals to those in need. The organization's goal is to reduce food waste on campus and give back to those around us, on campus and in Atlanta. “This semester, the STAR Office anticipates more than 100 students will rely on Klemis Kitchen for at least a few meals each week,” said Steve Fazenbaker, director of STAR. “The food recovery work that the Campus Kitchens Project does is essential in our ability to make sure every student on campus has enough to eat. We could not do what we do without the many volunteers involved with the project.” Georgia Tech makes it a priority to minimize food and energy waste. Because of this mission, Campus Kitchens receives weekly donations from any overproduction in Dining Services. Volunteers come together each week to package the leftover food for distribution. Typically, excess food is thrown away. However, this organization ensures that both students in need and members of the Atlanta homeless population receive the food packages. "I can eat better, I can sleep better, I'm healthier, and my grades have improved thanks to the reliable food source that Klemis Kitchen provides,” said a second-year physics student. “It's amazing how far a little bit of food can go for college students in need." Many students at all academic levels have had the opportunity to receive food packages. Even during the Covid-19 public health crisis, volunteers have worked to keep the mission going. "Throughout the pandemic, Klemis Kitchen has provided nutritious food that helped me to fully focus and excel on my academic work,” said an electrical and computer engineering graduate student. “I am truly grateful for having this program on campus, and for how much it changed my experience as a student.” If you are interested in volunteering for food packaging shifts or learning more about the Campus Kitchens Project, click here. To assist students in need by making a gift in support of the project, visit the Office of Development’s STAR giving page. Facebook Youtube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login