Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Studio Art Department of Studio Art Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Studio.Art.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Back to Top Nav Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Back to Top Nav Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Back to Top Nav Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Back to Top Nav Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links Back to Top Nav People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links Alumni Update Tell Us Your News Share Alumni Alumni News Morgynn Wiley '13 She completed the New York / Paris certificate program at Columbia University's GSAPP. After Dartmouth, she went to graduate school at University of Pennsylvania for a Master of Architecture. She now works at Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill in Chicago as an architectural designer and is pursuing licensure. Cassidy Ladd '16 After receiving her degree from Dartmouth (Engineering modified w/ Studio Art), Ladd couldn't get photography off of her mind. In the summer of 2018, she decided to pursue telling stories for a living and opened a wedding photography business. In just over a year, she built a thriving wedding photography and video business. Her company, Vibe Garden Images & Video, is focused on creating lasting personal relationships with clients by diligently pursuing those little details that make their story and relationship unique. She is able to capture the authentic emotions of their special day in a way that honors their personalities and values. Scott Listfield '98 After graduating from Dartmouth, Svott spent 15 years working full time as a designer in Boston, while also working on an ongoing series of paintings all of which feature a lone astronaut. About 4 years ago, his art career was going well enough that he left the day job in order to paint full time. He recently relocated to Los Angeles, where he shows his work regularly. He has also had recent gallery shows in San Francisco, London, Montreal, and Melbourne. The first book on his work was published in 2018 and premiered at Art Basel in Miami that year. Andrea Higgins '92, SECA Art Award recipient, will present a solo exhibition of paintings for FOG Design + Art 2019, Hosfelt Gallery. Higgins is known for her paintings of fabric swatches that draw on the expressive power of textiles to create evocative, abstract portraits. Inspired by childhood trips to Britex Fabrics with her grandmother, and a stay in Indonesia where she observed the labor-intensive process of weaving extravagant sarongs, she "weaves" textile patterns with paint. Considering the ubiquitous aesthetic importance of fabric across time and culture, Higgins is also fascinated by the ability of textiles to carry certain associations and to present a particular image of their wearer to the outside world. Her exhibition runs January 17 - 20, 2019, Booth 216, Fort Mason Festival Pavilion, 2 Marina Blvd, San Francisco. Daniele Genadry '02 exhibition "slow light" will be on display at the Beirut Art Center, Beirut, Lebanon, from July 25—Oct. 7, 2018. Danielle is teaching at the American University in Beirut and will be a fellow at Bogliasco Foundation, in Genova, Italy, later this year. Slow light Exhibition. Bogliasco Foundation. Jordan Ann Craig '15 - Received the Brooks Fellowship to visit London, Venice, Cork, and Amsterdam to study their distinctive printmaking traditions and complete residencies in local print studios. She will have an exhibition at the Venetian Scuola where she is now working on woodcuts, collographs, cyanotypes, monoprints, and etchings. As a resident she receives free classes. "It is interesting learning the Italian perspective and history on printmaking. Their way of explaining certain things can be so different. For instance, when waiting for the soaked paper to stop dripping, the instructor said to wait for the paper to stop crying." October 18, 2017 Ani Liu '08, recently complete d a project that was featured on VICE: https://broadly.vice.com/en_us/article/this-woman-just-figured-out-how-to-control-sperm-with-her-brain As an expression of female empowerment, in this project, a woman controls something inherently and symbolical male: sperm. Reflecting on the cultural and scientific discourses that shape notions of the female body, this promotes discussion on reproductive rights. Through the use of a brain-computer interface, a woman controls the movement of sperm with the agency of her thoughts. The project site is also here: http://ani-liu.com/pussygrabsback Danielle Genadry '02, will exhibit at the Taymour Grahne Gallery in NYC. Her show, Missing Real will run from September 12 to November 4, 2015. Mark Brosseau '98, lives outside of Philadelphia and is painting full-time. He is also Co-Director of the Philadelphia branch of the collective, Tiger Strikes Asteroid, where he has curated a group exhibition called "Shape Play" that opens on Friday, February 6th, 2016. Liz Ryan '87, was an English major as an undergraduate but took "Visual Anthropology" and became passionate about photography as a form of creative "writing". After Dartmouth, she went to graduate school in Los Angeles. She has taught at Cal State Fullerton, Reed College, and Hollins University among other schools. She has been a practicing studio artist since 1991. She works in photography, collage and video. Daniel Heyman '85, was an Artist-in-Residence at Dartmouth last year. He has a very successful career as an artist and teacher. William Lamson '00, interdisciplinary artist, got a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2014. After working successfully as a graphic designer in NYC, Laura Grey '02 is now an assistant professor of graphic design at BU. Sharon Lindenfeld '05 received her MFA in Printmaking from Indiana University, then taught at the University of Wisconsin. Last year she gave a terrific demonstration of her own printmaking techniques to a SART class at Dartmouth, and brought her enormous prints for students to see. Lexi Campbell '13 is taking photography classes at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and looking around the city for a printmaking facility. Hein Koh taught at Dartmouth last year as a visiting lecturer. Lauren Ruth and Max van Pelt are both making and showing work Natalia Wrobel '11 After interning with SART, Natalia received a scholarship to the New York Studio School and an Artist Residency at the BAI in Berlin. Her work is represented by Abigail Ogilvy Gallery in Boston, MA. She lives between Berlin and Amsterdam. Join the Facebook Alum group: Dartmouth in the Art World Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Dartmouth Studio Art Department Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Senior Seminar Art Awards Awards News 2020 Award Recipients Diversity Disciplines Overview Architecture Drawing Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Special Topics Visual Arts Digital Lab Artists in Residence Overview Current Artist in Residence Past Artists in Residence News About the Artists Artist-in-Residence Talks Exhibitions Overview Jaffe-Friede Gallery Past Exhibitions Barrows Rotunda Past Exhibitions Strauss Gallery Past Exhibitions Student Gallery Past Exhibitions Nearburg Gallery Internships Overview Current Interns Intern Exhibitions Apply for an Internship News & Events Overview Lectures Faculty News Students News Alumni Stories Tell us Your Story Videos & Links People Overview Visiting Faculty and Critics My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback