Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Enrollment Management and Services Student Services Center Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Withdrawal from Classes Your Money Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Bills, Payments and Refunds Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Degree Planning CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Readmission Graduation Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Coordinators of Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Forms Personal Information and Privacy Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Calendars Your Classes Your Money Your Degree Your Grades Your Resources Full Site Navigation Calendars Academic Billing and Due Dates Enrollment Exam Three Year Academic Calendar Your Classes Enrollment Enrollment Wizard Schedule Revision Requests Search for Classes Holds, Prerequisites, and Restrictions Schedule of Courses Course Catalog Exchange Programs Cooperating Raleigh Colleges (CRC) Inter-Institutional Program Study Abroad Withdrawal from Classes Withdrawal Process and Timeline Extenuating Circumstances for Withdrawal Retroactive Withdrawal Your Money Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Expenses, Costs and Refund Calculators Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Eligibility Program Eligibility Requirements Eligibility Reconsideration Changes in Enrollment Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Apply for Financial Aid Receive your Financial Aid Verification Planning for Tuition Costs Forms Find your financial aid counselor Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Bills, Payments and Refunds Undergraduate Advance Enrollment Deposit Understand Your Bill View Your Bill Online Pay Your Bill Billing and Due Dates Calendar Enroll in a Payment Plan Payment Options Delinquent Accounts Third-party Student Sponsorships Student Responsibilities Holds and Cancellations Registration Rules Fall Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Summer Late Registration Billing and Payment Policy Returned Check Fee Diploma or Transcript Holds Refunds and Reimbursements Refunds for Reduction in Hours Refunds for Withdrawal Direct Deposit Request a Replacement Check Federal Regulations – Cash Management Financial Literacy Student Employment Tax Information Your Degree Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Academic Progress Academic Standing Grade Point Deficit Progress Deficiency Financial Aid Eligibility Appeal for Eligibility Degree Planning Perform a Degree Audit Map your Path to Graduation Explore Degree Planning Tools Forecast Your Academic Performance CODA: Manage Majors and Minors Change or Add a Major College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles CODA Application CODA Application Deadlines Add a Minor Drop a Major or Minor Readmission Graduation Apply for Graduation Graduation Application Diplomas Certified Electronic Credential (CeDiploma/CeCertificate) CeDiploma Validation CeCredential Features CeCredential FAQs Replacement Diplomas Notary and Apostille Personal Information & Privacy Graduation Requirements Commencement Degree or Enrollment Verification Your Grades General Grading Information GPA Calculator Transcripts Dean’s List Graduation List Your Resources COVID-19 Information Enhanced Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Grading Option Enhanced Late Drop Option Spring 2021 Information CARES Act Emergency Grants CURE2 Emergency Grants Rescue Emergency Grants Institutional Reports Student Reports Coordinators of Advising Advisors for New Students Coordinators of Undergraduate Advising MyPack Portal User Guide Coordinators of Graduate Advising Forms Personal Information and Privacy Diploma Name Parent or Guardian Access Preferred or Non-Legal Name Pronouns and Gender Identity Student Addresses Student Personal Identification Number (PIN) Conducting Business Offline Student Group Event Request University Resources Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Online and Distance Education Non-Degree Studies Summer Session Rates Auditing a Course Fees Explanation Distance Education Fees Summer Fees Late Registration Fee Tuition Surcharge Residency Status Previous Term Tuition and Fee Rates Tuition Rates Reference Guide Fees Explanation Fall 2022 – Spring 2023 Fees Per Credit Hour Hours Undergraduate Graduate General Fees $87.04 $116.05 Ed & Tech Fee $18.30 $24.40 School Fee $0.21 $.94 Campus Security Fee $2.50 $3.33 Fee Totals $108.05 $144.74 COE Program Enhancement Fee $62.50 $83.33 Undergraduate Graduate General Student Fees Union Activity Board $0.82 $1.09 Student Publications/Media $1.09 $1.46 Student Government $0.59 $0.79 Student Legal Services $0.73 $0.97 School (Student Association)* $0.21 $0.94 Student Center Operations $6.52 $8.69 Student Center Repairs and Renovations $1.99 $2.66 Student Center Programming $10.03 $13.37 Sustainability $0.21 $0.28 University Wellness and Recreation $7.31 $9.75 Total Student Activity Fees $29.50 $40.00 Association of Student Governments $0.04 $0.06 Campus Security Fee $2.50 $3.33 Intercollegiate Athletics $9.67 $12.89 Student Health Service $18.54 $24.72 Educational & Technology Fee $18.30 $24.40 Transit Operations (Bus Service) $8.71 $11.61 Indebtedness Fees Carmichael Complex ‐ Indebtedness $0.96 $1.28 Intercollegiate Athletics ‐ Indebtedness $4.00 $5.33 Student Center ‐ Expansion $10.83 $14.44 Carmichael Complex ‐ Expansion $1.15 $1.53 Carmichael Complex ‐ Addition and Renov $3.85 $5.14 Total Indebtedness Fees $20.79 $27.72 Total Student Fees $108.05 $144.74 Itemized Breakdown of Undergraduate Fees (PDF) Itemized Breakdown of Graduate Fees (PDF) All of the following tuition and fees are payable by the billing statement’s due date. Interest will be assessed on any unpaid balances, and accounts that remain unpaid are considered delinquent accounts. Explanation of Tuition Tuition receipts are used toward the total cost of instruction and other academic expenses. The annual undergraduate rate is $6,535 for North Carolina residents and $28,276 for nonresidents. The annual graduate rate is $9,095 for North Carolina residents and $28,301 for nonresidents. Certain graduate professional programs carry a tuition increment or “premium” in addition to the regular graduate tuition. This increased tuition charge is used to maintain or enhance the excellence of the program while assuring access to them. Explanation of Required Fees - Academic Year Rates Required fees are used to fund the services, facilities and programs offered by the Student Center, Health Services, Department of Health and Exercise Studies, and Athletics Department. An itemization of required fees is available upon request. Union Activities Board (UAB) – This fee of $19.63 supports the UAB which is the main programming body for the campus which is responsible for acquiring, scheduling, publicizing, and presenting films, speakers, and special events. Student Publications and Media Fee – This fee of $26.25 is used to defray the cost of the various campus-wide student publications. At present these include two student newspapers, a yearbook, a radio station, and “The Windover” (a literary magazine). Student Government Fee – This fee of $14.20 is allocated to the Student Government for distribution to Campus organizations for activities, they deem, are in the best interest of the student body. Student Legal Services Fee – This fee of $17.50 funds the student legal services program which offers legal services to all students. School Fee – This fee of $5.00 for undergraduates is used by the student body to support student activities of each of the various schools. For graduate students, this fee of $17.00 is used by the graduate student association to support graduate student activities. Student Center Operations – This fee of $156.39 supports the maintenance and operations of the Student Center facilities. Student Center Repairs and Renovations– This fee of $47.80 is used to maintain and upgrade the Talley Student Center, Price Music Center, Witherspoon Student Center and Thompson Theater. Student Center Programming Fee – This fee of $240.70 supports programming for the Student Centers and the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity. Sustainability – This fee of $5.00 will be used to promote sustainability and green ambassador efforts. University Wellness and Recreational Fee – This fee of $175.50 is used to defray the cost of operating and maintaining the intramural recreational sports program and other physical education programs. Association of Student Governments – This fee of $1.00 is charged for all UNC institutions to help finance the Association of Student Governments, a coalition of student leaders from across the state. To be used for administrative staff, travel and small stipends for student leaders. Campus Security Fee – This fee of $60 is used to assist in campus-based and UNC system-wide safety and new security initiatives, staffing and security measures. Intercollegiate Athletics Fee – This fee of $232.00 is used in partial support of intercollegiate athletic programs. Student Health Services Fee – This fee of $445.00 is used by the University Health Center to offer medical and counseling services to students. Education and Technology Fee – This academic fee of $439.28 is used by colleges and schools to equip and operate computing and scientific laboratories which supplement classroom instruction. Transit Operations Fee – This fee of $209.00 partially funds the campus transit system. Carmichael Complex – Indebtedness – This $23.00 fee is pledged to support repairs and renovations of outdated equipment and facilities at Carmichael Complex Intercollegiate Athletics Indebtedness Fees – This $96.00 fee is pledged to the Department of Athletics in support of facility improvements, renovations, repairs and maintenance. Student Center – Expansion – This fee of $260.00 is pledged to support the renovation of the Student Center Buildings. Carmichael Complex – Expansion – This fee of $27.50 is pledged to support the Locker Room Renovation and Fitness Center Expansion Carmichael Complex Addition and Renovation – This $92.50 fee is pledged to support an addition of space with a renovation to the Carmichael Complex Other Fees COE Program Enhancement Fee – Students enrolled in the College of Engineering (including the BE, BEA, BEE, BEM, BAE, BEP, TE and PSE) will be charged a COE Program Enhancement Fee. This fee is used for program and infrastructure improvements in the College of Engineering to ensure our engineering students are provided career-ready skills that continue to advantage them in the marketplace. Each semester, undergraduates will be charged $62.50 per credit hours and graduate students will be charged $83.33 per credit hour. Professional Golf Management Fee – This fee of $350.00 per semester ensures access for students in the PGM program to partnering golf facilities for the use of their golf course and golf practice facilities. Music Lessons – Private (for credit) – This fee of $300.00 is assessed to students who register for private music lessons. University Common Experience – This one time fee of $15.00 is charged to all first year students to create a common educational and interactive experience for incoming undergraduate students, introducing them to NCSU institutional and academic values and expectations, including engagement as members of this community of scholars. Transfer Student Fee – This one time fee of $95.00 is charged to new undergraduate transfer students. This is a required fee that all enrolled students are billed. First-Year Student Fee -This one time fee of $315.76 is charged to new freshmen undergraduate and Agriculture Institute students. This is a required fee that all enrolled students are billed. International Orientation Fee – Undergraduate – This one time fee of $218.00 is charged to new undergraduate level international degree students during their first semester of enrollment. International Orientation Fee – Graduate – This one time fee of $158.00 is charged to new graduate level international degree students during their first semester of enrollment. Graduate Orientation Fee – This one time fee of $27.00 is charged to new Graduate students who are admitted and enroll in the Fall or Spring semester. This is a required fee billed to all newly enrolled graduate students regardless of their actual attendance at orientation. Alcohol Education – This one time fee of $30 is charged to all incoming freshmen to cover contract cost of the educational program and cost to administer the program which aids in the prevention of illegal alcohol consumption. Internship Liability Insurance – Students enrolled in an internship course will be charged a fee of $12.00 per academic year for this insurance. Students enrolled in internship courses that require medical professional coverage will be charged a fee of $52.80 per academic year. The insurance provides coverage for an insured party that becomes legally liable to pay damages because of property damage, bodily injury or personal injury because of their participation in a university internship program. For additional information see: https://irm.ehps.ncsu.edu/home/other-insurance/student-liability-coverage-request/. Late Registration Fee – The late registration fee is $100.00. Late registration starts July 20, 2022 for Fall 2022 and ends September 2, 2022 at 5:00 pm. The “late late” registration fee is $250.00 after September 2, 2022. Student Services Center Harris Hall 2831 Thurman Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. P: 919.515.NCSU (6278) Calendars MyPack Portal Policies, Regulations & Rules Non-Degree Studies Veterans Education Summer Sessions Parents and Families Services Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School University Housing University Dining Contact Us Consumer Information Privacy © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.