Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Academic Success Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Staff Directory Mission & Goals Annual Report Glimpse Contact or Visit Us Campus Partners Information and Resources Peer Educator Training Request ASC Marketing Materials Services and Programs Academic Coaching Schedule Online! Meet the Coaches What is Coaching? Video Preparing for your Appointment ALS 116 Class ASC Strategists Meet the Strategists ASC Workshops Ask A Question SI Study Tables Strategy Quiz Learning Corner The Writing Center Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Staff Directory Mission & Goals Annual Report Glimpse Contact or Visit Us Campus Partners Information and Resources Peer Educator Training Request ASC Marketing Materials Services and Programs Academic Coaching Schedule Online! Meet the Coaches What is Coaching? Video Preparing for your Appointment ALS 116 Class ASC Strategists Meet the Strategists ASC Workshops Ask A Question SI Study Tables Strategy Quiz Learning Corner The Writing Center Get Help Now Talk with an ASC Strategist. You can ask quick questions or have a longer conversation via email, phone, or Zoom. The strategist will help you decide next steps. Make a Coaching Appointment Set goals, discover new strategies, and stay organized with structure and support from an academic coach. Appointments via Zoom or phone. Use Remote & Online Learning Tools What will help you be succeed this term? Try some of these techniques specific for remote and online learning. Get Help With Writing Work on your writing with the writing center. Writing is hard work – don’t do it alone! Consultants are available to support your writing process. More Academic Resources Explore the range of academic resources available at OSU on this resource website. Better Study Spaces It’s important to have a space where you can focus and get work done. Design your own space or find something local. Start a Study Group Study groups take studying to the next level. Get started here. Find Tutoring Options Curious what tutoring is available? Explore some of your options at OSU. Visit office hours You instructors are here to help you succeed. Read more about why and learn how to make office hour visits great. WE'RE HERE TO HELP: Drop in: Waldo Hall 125 | M — F, 9 am to 5 pm Text us: 541-444-5906 Call us: 541-737-2272 Email us: success@oregonstate.edu COVID-19 Safety & Success Information For Students Contact Info Academic Success Center Oregon State University, 125 Waldo Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-2272 Hours: M thru F | 9 AM to 5 PM Live Chat with us (use the icon that pops up in the bottom right corner of success.oregonstate.edu) Please contact us with your comments, questions & feedback. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Instagram