Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us About Us Meet with us Virtually Request Assistance Student Assistance Form Administration Referral Form Meet with us Virtually Resources Adjusting to College Life Student Engagement Personal Well-Being Academic Financial Tools for Success Reaching Graduation Graduation Information 15 to Finish Dates & Deadlines Academic Calendars Refund Schedule Leave or Withdrawal Important Information Student Checklist Appeal Form Readmission Withdrawal Impact About Us Request Assistance Resources Reaching Graduation Dates & Deadlines Leave or Withdrawal Search About Us About Us Meet with us Virtually Request Assistance Student Assistance Form Administration Referral Form Meet with us Virtually Resources Adjusting to College Life Student Engagement Personal Well-Being Academic Financial Tools for Success Reaching Graduation Graduation Information 15 to Finish Dates & Deadlines Academic Calendars Refund Schedule Leave or Withdrawal Important Information Student Checklist Appeal Form Readmission Withdrawal Impact Refer a Student Submit an Administration Referral form. Request Assistance No matter the problem, we're here to help. Virtual Appointments Need to talk? Connect with us virtually. Administration Referral Form > Student Assistance Form > Request Virtual Assistance > Refer a Student Submit an Administration Referral form. Request Assistance No matter the problem, we're here to help. Virtual Appointments Need to talk? Connect with us virtually. "I had some obstacles with academic planning, financial aid, and handling taking a leave from classes during a family emergency. The ’Cane Success Center helped me handle every aspect. It was so beneficial to have all of the campus resources available in one place and to have passionate advisors with the expertise to help me work through any obstacle—academic and nonacademic." It was so beneficial to have all of the campus resources available in one place. Danielle Lone, Biomedical Engineering, Class of 2018 Academic Resources Financial Resources Personal Well-being Student Engagement Adjusting to College Life Reaching Graduation Withdrawal Resources Important Dates and Deadlines University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ’Cane Success Center 1306 Stanford Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4500 305-284-4500 success@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices