Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Academic Success Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Staff Directory Mission & Goals Annual Report Glimpse Contact or Visit Us Campus Partners Information and Resources Peer Educator Training Request ASC Marketing Materials Services and Programs Academic Coaching Schedule Online! Meet the Coaches What is Coaching? Video Preparing for your Appointment ALS 116 Class ASC Strategists Meet the Strategists ASC Workshops Ask A Question SI Study Tables Strategy Quiz Learning Corner The Writing Center Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Staff Directory Mission & Goals Annual Report Glimpse Contact or Visit Us Campus Partners Information and Resources Peer Educator Training Request ASC Marketing Materials Services and Programs Academic Coaching Schedule Online! Meet the Coaches What is Coaching? Video Preparing for your Appointment ALS 116 Class ASC Strategists Meet the Strategists ASC Workshops Ask A Question SI Study Tables Strategy Quiz Learning Corner The Writing Center You are here Home Tutoring at OSU The Academic Success Center (ASC) recommends that students seeking course-specific help and assistance talk with an ASC Strategist via Zoom, email, or phone (--> check our right sidebar). Strategists are not tutors, but they can help students locate course specific support on campus, and will refer them to those resources. There are many tutoring options available at OSU and an ASC Strategist can help students to identify next steps based on their situation, needs and interests. Generally, what tutoring is available? We encourage you to use the following links to visit the resource/support you’re interested in and to learn more about their options to connect and get help: For Any Course: The Writing Center supports students working on any type of writing task. Studio and graduate writing consultants are available via Zoom, email or telephone appointments through the Online Writing Suite. Academic Coaches are here for you remotely this term! Coaching appointments are 45-minute one-on-one sessions for you to talk about your learning strategies- they can help you adapt your approach to a course to study differently. Schedule a phone or video session here. The Valley Library has a lot of resources and services from an “Ask Us” online reference desk to assistance from subject librarians and reference consultants. It’s not technically “tutoring” but it’s another resources available regardless of your class. IT Service Desk is OSU’s central hub for technical support. You can reach them via phone (541-737-8787) or through their “Help Ticket” web form. They serve all students and there is no cost. Subject or Course Specific Help Supplemental Instruction (SI) are small group study tables that meet weekly throughout the term. You can view the list of currently-supported courses on the SI website, learn more about it, and find out how/when to sign up. Each of the following subject-specific tutoring centers normally hold in-person hours throughout the term; to learn about their remote options, please visit their websites for details and contact information for your questions. The Mathematics and Statistics Learning Center (MSLC) for math and statistics support. Learn How to Access the Virtual MSLC The Mole Hole for chemistry support. The Vole Hole for biology support (normally, you would see your Canvas course site for details). The Worm Hole for general Physics support. The Economics Undergraduate Lab/Tutoring for lower-division Economics course support. The College of Engineering tutoring Schedule for engineering support. The College of Business tutoring information page for information about private tutors and tutoring resources. General Resources http://experience.oregonstate.edu/resources offers a comprehensive list of academic resources; to see them, choose Academic Success in the “What are you looking for?” filter. experience_site.png In addition to the above resources, consider the following avenues for academic support: Office hours. Details for how to engage in office hours (whether in-person or remote) will be available on your course syllabi in Canvas. Professors, instructors and graduate teaching assistants are here to support you and to help you succeed, and Office Hours are specific times set aside each week for you to ask questions, get clarification on assignments or exams, and discuss course topics. Your instructor or graduate teaching assistant is the best source for course-related information and clarification, and for content learning strategies. For some strategies and tips on how to make the most of office hours, remote or otherwise, check out our Office Hours Infographic, or take a look at these ideas. Online tutoring for ECampus classes. For students taking courses through Ecampus (different from Corvallis/Cascades remote classes), ECampus offers tutoring through a service called TutorMe. These tutoring sessions take place online on virtual whiteboards. For more information and a list of tutored subjects, please visit the ECampus Tutoring webpage. Study Groups. Study groups can be one of the most effective ways to learn course material and prepare for exams. Effective study groups give students the opportunity to practice with and teach each other course concepts. For information on how to organize a successful study group, connect with our ASC Strategists and/or follow this link: How to Conduct a Successful Study Group. Private Tutoring. If you’re interested in finding a tutor and paying for tutoring yourself, please keep in mind a few guidelines. While private tutors can be quite proficient in the subject area, they may not be trained or supervised by a university department. We recommend using sound judgment when pursuing private tutoring. The ASC does not coordinate private tutoring sessions, but we can provide you with some advice on how to proceed if you choose to hire a private tutor: How to Hire a Tutor. Given the recommendations for social distancing, look to work with a tutor who is willing to provide tutoring sessions via Zoom, Google Hangouts, or another virtual platform. Additional resources. Some campus programs provide tutoring to students supported by their programs. Educational Opportunities Program, CAMP, TRiO Student Support Services, Academics for Student Athletes, LSAMP, and other programs may have tutoring available for program participants. If you’re part of these programs, please check with the program coordinator or your academic counselor for more information. WE'RE HERE TO HELP: Drop in: Waldo Hall 125 | M — F, 9 am to 5 pm Text us: 541-444-5906 Call us: 541-737-2272 Email us: success@oregonstate.edu COVID-19 Safety & Success Information For Students Academic Coaching ALS 116: Academic Success ASC Strategists Ask a Question Learning Corner Request a Workshop Strategy Quiz Supplemental Instruction Contact Info Academic Success Center Oregon State University, 125 Waldo Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-2272 Hours: M thru F | 9 AM to 5 PM Live Chat with us (use the icon that pops up in the bottom right corner of success.oregonstate.edu) Please contact us with your comments, questions & feedback. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Instagram