menu close About Listen Home Events View all Music Visual Arts Lecture Panel Discussion Dance FILM Drama Listening Session Resources View all Past Events Music Visual Art Drama Poetry Film Panel Discussions Essays Teaching Materials Course Offerings Columbia University presents a yearlong campus-wide festival of public concerts, performances, lectures, panel discussions, and an exhibition inspired by the "tone parallel" between Shakespeare and Such Sweet Thunder, the Duke Ellington Orchestra's 1957 Shakespearean suite. Learn more FEATURING Kimberly Benston Courtney Bryan June Cross Keith David Brent Hayes Edwards Jon Faddis Farah Jasmine Griffin Jean E. Howard George Lewis Nicole Mitchell Fred Moten Chris Ofili Robert G. O’Meally James S. Shapiro Ayanna Thompson Events View all Such Sweet Thunder: A Columbia-Harlem Concert Dance Past 21 April 2022 7 pm Such Sweet Thunder: A Columbia-Harlem Concert Dance April 21, 2022 7 pm Past Such Sweet Thunder: A Columbia-Harlem Concert Dance Founder of CityStep Sabrina Peck directs a campus-community dance collaboration celebrating the Such Sweet Thunder score through movement. The culminating performance at The Forum at Columbia University features new works created for the Columbia Ballet Collaborative by Dance Theater of Harlem dancer Derek Brockington; solos by world-renowned performers LaTasha Barnes, Paul Taylor Dancer Madelyn Ho, Mercedes Ellington, Omar Edwards, Maria de Lourdes Davila and Orlando Hernadez; and choreography developed by Columbia and Barnard students working with younger students at the Harlem School of the Arts. With generous support from Jerome A. Chazen, Gabriela and Michael Block, Crystal McCrary and Raymond J. McGuire, and the Columbia University Office of the President. Photo Credits: Jess Keener (Barnes); Renee Choi (Brockington); Dancers of New York (Ho) REGISTER TO ATTEND share on Facebook Twitter 21 April 2022 7 - 9 pm Toni Morrison Reads Othello Past 12 April 2022 6 pm Toni Morrison Reads Othello April 12, 2022 6 pm Past Toni Morrison Reads Othello In this conversation, Jean Howard, a Shakespeare scholar, Farah Jasmine Griffin, a Morrison scholar, and Rebecca Kastleman, a scholar of contemporary drama, discuss Toni Morrison’s radical re- imagining of Shakespeare’s tragedy. Written in collaboration with musician Rokia Traore, Morrison’s play—whose title, Desdemona, reveals it to be a refraction of Othello—focuses on Desdemona’s imagined relationship with a Black woman who raised her, a character not present in Shakespeare’s script. Together these women make possible not only a new understanding of Othello and his actions, but of the imbrication of race, gender, and white privilege in Shakespeare’s time and in ours. Panelists will discuss not only how Morrison reimaged Shakespeare, but also how Desdemona is in conversation with Morrison’s other work, and how the sonic landscape of this performance piece resonates with other 20th-century postcolonial drama. With generous support from Jerome A. Chazen, Gabriela and Michael Block, Crystal McCrary and Raymond J. McGuire, and the Columbia University Office of the President. REGISTER TO ATTEND share on Facebook Twitter 12 April 2022 6 - 8 pm Douglass the Prophet Past 2 April 2022 7 pm Douglass the Prophet April 2, 2022 7 pm Past Douglass the Prophet Harlem Stage and Columbia University present Douglass the Prophet, part of Columbia University’s series of public programs and events inspired by the “tone parallel” between William Shakespeare and the Duke Ellington Orchestra’s Shakespearean suite, Such Sweet Thunder. a work in process Everything in my heart believed we would have reached equality by now. How is it possible that the world I fought to change mirrors back in the world you’re in? Documentarian and playwright June Cross brings Frederick Douglass back from the dead in this new one-person play starring Keith David. Invoking the spirits of Othello, Julius Caesar and Duke Ellington, Douglass, reimagined as an eternal prophet, meets us exactly where we are – lost in the myopia of our current American tragedy. But perhaps he can interrupt fate and redirect our collective future so the past can finally cease repeating. With a live score by drummer Mike Clark and vocalist Kathryn Farmer, lighting by Alan C. Edwards, artwork by Sanford Biggers, dramaturgy by Sunder Ganglani and directed by Charlotte Brathwaite – Douglass the Prophet is a poetic freedom dream that weaves story and history, while urging the audience to imagine a future beyond the ravages of our violent past. Performance Dates March 31 @ 7:30pm April 1 @ 7:30pm April 2 @ 2pm April 2 @ 7:30pm Live/Reserved Seating Donor Seating: $500 General Seating: $25 Student Seating: $7 With generous support from Jerome A. Chazen, Gabriela and Michael Block, Crystal McCrary and Raymond J. McGuire, and the Columbia University Office of the President. REGISTER TO ATTEND share on Facebook Twitter 2 April 2022 7 - 9 pm Resources View all Fred Moten and Bob O’Meally on Chris Ofili’s Othello Read Chris Ofili: The Othello Prints Read The Literary Ellington Read Listen View all play Duke Ellington and His Orchestra Such Sweet Thunder (Cleo) 3 : 19 33 RPM Pause Duke Ellington and His Orchestra, “Such Sweet Thunder (Cleo),” Such Sweet Thunder (Columbia/Legacy, 1957). Recorded April 24, 1957. Duke Ellington (p), Billy Strayhorn (orchestration); Clark Terry, Willie Cook, Cat Anderson (tp); Ray Nance (tp,vln,vcl); Quentin Jackson, Britt Woodman, John Sanders (tb); Jimmy Hamilton (cl,ts), Johnny Hodges (as), Russell Procope (as,cl), Paul Gonsalves (ts), Harry Carney (bar,cl,b-cl); Jimmy Woode (b), Sam Woodyard (d). play Duke Ellington and His Orchestra "Sonnet to Hank Cinq" 1 : 24 33 RPM Pause Duke Ellington and His Orchestra, “Sonnet to Hank Cinq,” Such Sweet Thunder (Columbia/Legacy, 1957). Recorded May 3, 1957. Duke Ellington (p), Billy Strayhorn (orchestration); Clark Terry, Willie Cook, Cat Anderson (tp); Ray Nance (tp,vln,vcl); Quentin Jackson, Britt Woodman, John Sanders (tb); Jimmy Hamilton (cl,ts), Johnny Hodges (as), Russell Procope (as,cl), Paul Gonsalves (ts), Harry Carney (bar,cl,b-cl); Jimmy Woode (b), Sam Woodyard (d). play DUKE ELLINGTON AND HIS ORCHESTRA "Sonnet in Search of a Moor" 2 : 26 33 RPM Pause “Sonnet in Search of a Moor,” Such Sweet Thunder (Columbia/Legacy, 1957). Recorded April 15, 1957. Duke Ellington (p), Billy Strayhorn (orchestration); Clark Terry, Willie Cook, Cat Anderson (tp); Ray Nance (tp,vln,vcl); Quentin Jackson, Britt Woodman, John Sanders (tb); Jimmy Hamilton (cl,ts), Johnny Hodges (as), Russell Procope (as,cl), Paul Gonsalves (ts), Harry Carney (bar,cl,b-cl); Jimmy Woode (b), Sam Woodyard (d). Facebook Twitter Instagram #Suchsweetthunder Email* Contact /Privacy Policy /Center for Jazz Studies