Skip to content Summer 2022: Coronavirus Information Learn More Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Adult & College Students Course Formats & Technology Explore Courses Course Registration Tuition, Fees and Payment Summer Academic Calendar Harvard College Students High School Students Experience Harvard 2-Week Pre-College Program 7-Week Flexible Secondary School Program Events Study Abroad Browse Programs How To Apply Costs and Funding Policies and Safety For Admitted Students Students in Need of Accommodations For Students Campus Life Support and Services Policies and Regulations Activities, Athletics, and Museums Blog About Meet the Dean Our Mission MyDCE Login Request Info Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Study at Harvard This Summer Course Formats & Technology Explore Courses Course Registration Browse Courses Tuition, Fees and Payment Summer Academic Calendar Harvard College Students College Programs for High School Students 2-Week Residential Pre-College Program Browse Pre-College Courses 7-Week Flexible Secondary School Program Browse Secondary School Courses Events Study Abroad Browse Programs How To Apply Costs and Funding For Students MyDCE Login Activities, Athletics, and Museums Campus Life Support and Services Policies and Regulations About Mission Meet The Dean Contact Us Media Requests Harvard Summer School Blog Forms Summer Jobs for Harvard Students Website Archives Privacy Statement Start your education journey today. Request Info Student Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram The 3 Lies of Harvard The John Harvard statue is nicknamed the “statue of three lies.” We reveal the truth behind the landmark. Share Blog Jul 31, 2015 3 minute read The John Harvard statue is a mainstay of Harvard Yard. Every day, students rub his toe on their way to class, hoping that it will give them luck on their next hard exam. As tours pass through the Yard, people stop to get a picture with one of the best-known landmarks on campus. But the statue is not all that it seems. It’s actually nicknamed the “statue of three lies” because of all the inaccuracies inscribed on it. Here we reveal the truth behind the statue. The famous statue Sherman Hoar 1. That isn’t John Harvard. Even though the name “John Harvard” is written in stone on the statue’s base, the likeness is not, actually, that of John Harvard. In fact, there are no living representations of John Harvard. In 1884, Daniel Chester French created the famous statue, and Sherman Hoar sat as a model for the head of John Harvard. Hoar later went on to serve as a member of Congress and a US district attorney. 2. John Harvard wasn’t the founder of Harvard University. What? Yes, that’s right. The engraving on the statue states “founder,” but this is also not true. Actually, Harvard didn’t even attend the College. He was the first major benefactor to the University. He donated half of his estate and his library, which consisted of over 400 books. Harvard University was officially founded by a vote by the Great and General Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. 3. Harvard wasn’t founded in 1638. Close, but no cigar. Harvard University was founded in 1636. This gives Harvard the honor of being the oldest institution of higher education in the United States. Harvard was originally called the New College. And its mission was to train clergy. Harvard received its official famous name on March 13, 1639, named for the renowned benefactor seated in “lies.” Interested in Harvard history? Learn more about the story of the university and understand the meaning behind Harvard’s famous symbols. The statue has most celebrities beat when it comes to the amount of photos taken with him every day. Post pictures of yourself posing with the man himself on our Facebook page. Interested in summer at Harvard? Learn more about our summer programs. Request Information Jul 31, 2015 Blog Share Read Next Blog 8 Ways to Enjoy a Harvard Summer Defy gravity, build a social network—even burst out into song! Close Previous Next / Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Start your education journey today. Request Info Follow Harvard Summer School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College