Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Contact Us About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Academic Support Resources Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / About Us / Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Early Summer, Late Summer $1,140 per credit hour ($3,420 for a 3-credit course) Maymester $1,140 per credit hour ($3,420 for a 3-credit course) Rates are for tuition only. Course Fees A student may be charged a laboratory or other supplemental fees per course. These fees are calculated to cover the costs of materials and supplies used in the course and are established by the department faculty offering the course. Course fees are listed on the Schedule of Classes. Room and Board All room charges on your account are posted and managed by Tulane University Housing and Residence Life (HRL). A full description of available summer housing options and pricing can be found at https://housing.tulane.edu/housing-logistics/summer-housing. All Board (Meal Plan) charges on your account are posted and managed by Tulane University Dining Services. A full description of available meal plan options and pricing can be found at http://www.diningservices.tulane.edu/. Contact Dining Services at (504) 865-5629 Understanding Your Bill Tulane University billing statements are rendered on a monthly basis. An email notification will be sent to student’s Tulane e-mail address each time a new statement is available to view online. Student must log in to Gibson Online to view bills and current activity, authorize others to have access, or to request paper statements if required. Paper statements are mailed only to those students who have made this request on Gibson Online. Summer tuition and fee assessment begins April 2, and continues daily as new registrations are added through the last date to register/add. Students who register by April 15 will receive notification by April 16 that a new account statement is available to view online. Your April statement will include new tuition and fee charges, with a due date of May 15. Students registering after April 15 will receive a May 15 statement with new charges, due June 14. A FINANCE CHARGE will be assessed if any portion of the amount due remains unpaid after the due date indicated on your statement. Click here for more information. Accounts Receivable Contact Accounts Receivable with any questions you may have about tuition and fee rates at acctrec@tulane.edu, (504) 865-5368 or toll free (800) 798-7633. Financial Aid Financial Aid for summer courses is managed by the University Financial Aid department. Financial Aid has comprehensive information on their website about eligibility, cost, and procedures to apply for and receive financial aid. To find out if financial aid is available for a Special Program or Institute, contact that program office. NTC Summer School 2022 Withdraw Dates Dates to Know Maymester Early Summer Late Summer Classes Begin May 16 May 31 July 5 100% Refund, Last Day to Add May 17 June 3 July 8 75% Refund - June 7 July 12 50% Refund May 18 June 8 July 13 25% Refund May 20 June 10 July 15 Withdraw Without Record/Change Grading Rules May 20 June 10 July 15 Last Day to Withdraw May 24 June 17 July 22 Last Day of Class May 27 July 1 August 5 Final Grades Due See Below See Below See Below * Exams must be scheduled on Saturday and Sunday * Final Grades must be submitted within 48 hours of the final exam for all students No class on Memorial Day - Monday, May 30th - or Independence Day - Monday, July 4th Link to Tulane Home Page Summer School Newcomb-Tulane College Mussafer Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.314.2669 Maps & Directions Contact Us FAQ School of Professional Advancement Newcomb-Tulane College Pre-College Programs News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University