Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Menu Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology < See all Certificates and CPAs Columbia University’s Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology (E3B) Certificate provides college graduates who did not major in environmental biology the kind of academic experience that highly competitive graduate programs require. This program is primarily designed to be part-time, with students completing the certificate in four to eight terms (including summers). If started in the summer term, the program can be completed in three intensive terms (one calendar year) on a full-time or near full-time basis. A limited number of competitive research grants are available for admitted students that can provide up to $1,000 per student for independent lab or field research. Proposals for these grants, which are subject to review by a departmental committee, are evaluated on their research merit, tractability, and educational benefit to the student. New York City-based institutions, including EcoHealth Alliance, the Wildlife Conservation Society, the American Museum of Natural History, and the New York Botanical Garden, offer research opportunities in affiliation with the E3B program. Curriculum The curriculum develops competency in the core sciences related to environmental biology – chemistry, biology, earth sciences, statistics, and conservation biology. Students will also take two advanced classes in ecology, evolution, organismal biology, or environmental policy. The E3B Certificate includes: Two courses in Biology (including population, community, and ecosystem biology) Two courses in Chemistry (can be substituted with one intensive chemistry course) One course in environmental science (climate) One course in statistics One course in conservation biology Two additional environmental biology electives This curriculum can be adjusted for students who have already taken one or two of the basic courses. Students are required to maintain an overall minimum GPA of 3.0 (B). Every course creditable toward the certificate must be taken for a letter grade. Courses with a grade below a C will not count toward the completion of the certificate. Students who successfully complete 12 points with a B or better in each class will be awarded a Certificate in Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology. (Precise point total can vary, depending on student’s experience.) For detailed course descriptions, please visit the courses page and select the subject area you are interested in. Apply To apply, follow the Summer Sessions application instructions for your admissions category: Adults & Professionals Individuals with a bachelor’s degree or higher degree. See Details > The E3B Certificate program also accepts students in the Fall and Spring. Contact the Department General Information, Admissions Questions, and Advising 212-854-9666 EEEB [at] sps.columbia.edu Other Program Contacts Application Document Submission and Application Processing Questions 212-854-9666 apply@sps.columbia.edu Mailing Address and Campus Location Office of Enrollment Management School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, Mail Code 4119 New York, NY 10027-6902 212-854-9666 Office hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy