Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Contact Us About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Academic Support Resources Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / About Us / Courses Courses Start exploring your summer options today by selecting one of our courses from over 50 subject areas and programs. We are adding new courses and programs daily, so keep checking the Schedule of Classes for the most up-to-date information and to register for summer classes. Dates and times subject to change; check the Schedule of Classes for up-to-date information. Summer 2022 will have courses both online and in-person, and our faculty are working hard to design interactive, engaging remote learning experiences for every course. If you are participating in one of our online courses you may have less in person sessions and more assignments to complete on your own so you’ll need to budget that time, and ensure you can attend during the designated class time adjusted for your time zone. Each course will indicate what equipment is required to complete the course as well as the course format to review before you register. Be sure to note all drop and grading deadlines for your specific course and how this will affect any refunds and your GPA. Are you interested in taking a class this summer but it is not offered? If there are 10 or more students who want to take this class we will try to make it happen. If you are interested in a summer course that has already filled, let us know! Summer 2022 Courses Course Listing Additional Opportunities Intensive Courses School of Professional Advancement Courses Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Link to Tulane Home Page Summer School Newcomb-Tulane College Mussafer Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.314.2669 Maps & Directions Contact Us FAQ School of Professional Advancement Newcomb-Tulane College Pre-College Programs News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University