Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Admitted Students You are here Home / Admitted Students / Admitted Students Welcome! Now that you've made the decision to spend some of your summer with us, we encourage you to make the most of everything that we have to offer both academically and as an extracurricular activity. You can find classroom listings on our Classrooms page. Use the pages below to review any requirements that you need to complete before you arrive to Yale, as well as information and resources that will help you get ready for the experience. 2022 Student Handbook View and Download Summer Session Tutoring Summer Session tutoring, schedule of dates, times, and locations. Learn More Changes & Withdrawals Make sure that you complete all pre-departure requirements by the relevant deadline. Learn More Grades and Transcripts How to get final grades and transcripts. Learn More Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in