Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Career Design Workshop Series: Interviewing Skills for Career Growth June022022 06:00 p.m. 07:30 pm EST Online Event RSVP Back to Events Summer Career Design Workshop Series: Interviewing Skills for Career Growth The Columbia University Summer Session is launching the Career Design Workshop in 2022, a new professional development opportunity that is exclusive to visiting students enrolled in the Summer program. Students receive robust and practical career coaching, in addition to choosing from hundreds of courses to build their own academic program of study. Getting a job is a complex process but "doable." The key is to know what we're looking for and how to prepare. In this interactive seminar with Steve Safier, Ph.D., program director and lecturer in the Columbia University School of Professional Studies M.S. in Human Capital Management program, you will learn how to approach and excel in the job interview process so that you can set yourself apart and be ready to land the job you want. Speakers Steve Safier, Ph.D. Steve Safier, Ph.D. Program Director and Lecturer in the Discipline of Human Capital Management 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy