Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Billing & Payment Information You are here Home / Dates & Costs / How to Pay / Billing & Payment Information This page provides information about how to pay your Summer Session bill, including when your bill is generated, types of payments accepted, and payment deadline. TOC: When You are Billed Once you are admitted to Yale Summer Session, an invoice for your expenses is automatically generated. You will receive an electronic billing notification to the email address you provided in your online application, prompting you to log into your YalePay account to view your bill. In order to view your bill, you must have an active Net ID and password. Visiting students will receive instructions for activating their Net IDs and passwords within 10 days of being admitted. To view your YalePay account: Sign into YalePay, using your Net ID and password. Your Account Summary will list the charges due for summer courses. From that page you can initiate payment by e-Check or wire transfer. Please note that payment plans are not available in Yale Summer Session. If you apply in the spring (April-June), your Summer Session payment deadline may be earlier than the due date posted on your account statement. In this case, you should ignore the account statement and pay by the earlier Summer Session payment deadline. It is your responsibility to submit payment in full before your summer class(es) or program begins. Point: Click below to view your summer balance online: 1. Select Student Log In, and sign in with your Yale Net ID and password. 2. From the menu, select Account Summary 3. Click on Make Payment to select payment type (e-Check or wire transfer) 4. Your account will be updated as soon as Yale Financial Services processes the payment. Electronic payments will be updated immediately; wire transfers within three business days. Students with outstanding financial obligations, whether for Yale Summer Session or previous terms at Yale, will not be permitted to register for classes. Financial aid loan checks must also be received by Student Financial and Administrative Services by the payment deadlines. Payment Methods Yale accepts payments by a check, payment by a third party, payment by an international wire transfer, and payment by a domestic wire transfer. Note:At this time, Yale Summer Session is unable to accept credit cards as a method of payment. Payment by a Check Tuition and fees should be made payable to “Yale University.” All payments must be made in U.S. currency. Checks should be payable in U.S. dollars and drawn on a U.S. bank. For accurate processing, the student’s name and student identification (SID) number must appear on the check. This number appears on lower left hand corner of your bill. Pin:Click here to contact Student Financial and Administrative Services Mailing Address P.O. Box 208338 New Haven, CT 06520-8338 Tel: 203-432-2727 Payment by a Third Party If a third party such as a foundation or a trust is to be billed for any or all of your tuition or fees, please notify Student Financial and Administrative Services at least one month prior to registration. A copy of your award letter or other appropriate documentation must accompany your written request for third party billing. Payment by an International Wire Transfer (via Flywire) Payment can be made by an international wire transfer through Flywire, a leading provider of electronic payment solutions, and can be accessed directly from your YalePay account page. Flywire allows you to save on bank fees and exchange rates, track your payment online from start to finish, and have access to 24/7 customer support. Payment by a Domestic Wire Transfer Please contact Student Financial and Administrative Services for wire transfers done within the United States. Payment Deadlines A list of the payment deadlines can be found on our deadlines page: Payment Deadlines. Note: Yale College students with questions about funding their YSS courses can contact yss.funding@yale.edu. Note: Yale students and visiting students with questions about their YSS bill can contact yss.billing@yale.edu. Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in