Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Current Columbia Students Current Columbia Students Menu Overview Tuition & Fees Housing Registration Information Enrolled Students FAQ Contact Request Information Enroll Request Information Enroll Current Columbia Students Advance your studies, make new friends, and experience New York City landmarks and cultural institutions with Columbia scholars through this special co-curricular summer program for students. Columbia students may choose to enroll in summer courses to catch up or get ahead in their academic programs, fulfill prerequisites such as Core requirements, or explore new fields. Whether you are looking to fulfill degree requirements, catch up or get ahead during the summer to free up time during the academic year for study abroad, summer study can help you to advance your goals. Courses are available in more than 50 subject areas, including: art and culture; science and environment; and economics and finance. In the classroom and through enhanced experiential events, students will interact with Columbia faculty and researchers on guided learning expeditions to New York City landmarks and institutions from Wall Street to Broadway, and from Museum Mile to Columbia’s remarkable medical research facilities. If you’re enrolled at a Columbia University school (including Columbia College, General Studies, SEAS, and Social Work, Teachers College), and Barnard, you may be eligible. Whether you’re interested in exploring a budding passion, or fulfilling degree requirements, consult with your advisor for approvals and to ensure that you meet eligibility requirements to register or enroll in Columbia Summer courses. Academic Options Description During Courses Build a program that meets your goals from hundreds of courses offered during Summer. Session A & B Attend an Info Session All Events June082022 5:30 p.m. | Info Session Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting Read more Note for Columbia Students Summer students are held to the rules, regulations, and standards as outlined in their school bulletin and in Essential Policies for the Columbia Community. Read More Contact Us Non-Degree Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu Find Courses Choose from among hundreds of summer courses to meet your goals. View Courses News Student 10 Ways to Maximize Your Summer at Columbia 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy