Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Tuition, Fees & Policies You are here Home / Dates & Costs / Tuition, Fees & Policies / Tuition, Fees & Policies Note:Tuition and fees depend on the length and location of the selected program. For New Haven (Yale campus) and Online programs and courses, see details below. For Yale Summer Session Programs Abroad (taught outside the U.S.), please visit Yale Study Abroad. TOC: Summer 2022 Tuition Description Amount 1 course credit (4 semester credit hours) $4,650 1.5-credit foreign language course $4,650 0.5-credit science laboratory $2,325 2-credit course $9,100 Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp (2-credit course) $9,100 Summer Conservatory for Actors (2-credit course) $9,100 A Practical Approach to Directing $1,050 Intensive English Seminar $4,700 Postgraduate Seminar or TEFL Seminar - Online $1,350 Law Seminar or Business Seminar $5,500 University Preparation Program $3,400 English for Academic Purposes - Online $1,325 Summer 2022 Fees Description Amount Application Fee (nonrefundable) $75 Visa Processing Fee (for international students only - nonrefundable) $100 Course change fee (the first change is free) For Summer 2022 only, the course change fee is suspended. $60 Technology fee (online courses only) $85 Course Change Fee After submitting the online application, but prior to the start of classes, each student is permitted to add or substitute courses once without a course change fee. Any subsequent course additions or substitutions will be subject to the course change fee, which will be billed at the time of the addition or substitution. This fee does not apply to students who drop a course. Summer 2022 Residential Fees Residential Program Fee includes room, meals, and student activities (rates subject to change). Description Room and Board Health Insurance (required for all visiting international students) Yale Health fee (required for all visiting students) Session A or B (5 weeks) $3,630 $130 $150 Session A & B (10 weeks) $7,260 $260 $300 10-day Directing Workshop* $819 $52 $60 3-Week University Preparation for International High School Students $2,178 $78 $90 Visit How to Pay for payment options and Financial Assistance for more information. *Directing housing cost does not include meals. Refund Policies Yale Summer Session will refund tuition and room and meal payments according to the terms listed below. No refunds will be made unless we received appropriate written notification. A Yale student's Student Financial Services account will be credited. Note: For Yale x Flatiron program, please visit the program page for refund policy. Tuition A full tuition refund will be issued if a student notifies the Summer Session office, prior to the start of the session in question, of their intention not to attend courses in that session via the Change Form on the Summer Session website. A. If a student drops a course or withdraws entirely from Yale Summer Session by 4:00 p.m. Friday of the first week of classes of a given session, 100% of the tuition will be refunded or credited. B. If a student drops a course or withdraws entirely from Yale Summer Session by 4:00 p.m. Friday of the second week of classes, 50% of the tuition will be refunded or credited. C. No tuition will be refunded after the second week of classes of a given session. Students using YSS-COVID-19 Courses should refer to the section on using YSS COVID-19 Courses for policies governing course changes, drops, and withdrawals. Room and Board Once a student is in residence, he or she will be entitled to a partial room and meal refund only by vacating the room by Friday at 4:00 p.m. of the first week of classes. No refunds will be made after this time. The student will be charged the rate for room and meals for each of the days in residence. Before a refund can be made the student must have his or her room inspected and then return room keys and ID card (if a visiting student), to the Housing Manager in the Summer Housing Office. Students using YSS COVID-19 Housing Subsidies should refer to the section on using YSS COVID-19 Housing Subsidies for policies governing changes in enrollment status that affect room and board. Requesting a Refund Students should email refund@yale.edu to request a refund, including their SID # in their message. Yale Summer Session 2022 Date: Session A: May 30 - July 1, 2022 Session B: July 4 - August 5, 2022 Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in