Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance YSS COVID-19 Courses and Housing Subsidies Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Financial Assistance You are here Home / Dates & Costs / Financial Assistance / Financial Assistance TOC: Financial Assistance for Yale College Students The Undergraduate Financial Aid Office does not award Yale Scholarship aid for Yale Summer Session courses. However, Yale College students who enroll in Yale Summer Session courses may be eligible for financial assistance from a range of sources. YSS Financial Assistance YSS financial assistance provides 50% off tuition for up to two courses each summer to Yale College students who receive financial aid during the regular academic year. Students may receive financial assistance for a maximum of two courses each summer (a maximum award of $4,650 for Summer 2022). Please note that students taking 2-half credit courses will receive half tuition on each course (for a total of $2,325 for Summer 2022). Students taking a two-credit course will receive half tuition for that course (a total of $4,550 for Summer 2022). Students typically use this financial assistance for New Haven courses or for Yale Summer Online courses. However, students may also use this financial assistance for a Yale Summer Session Program abroad if they have already used their International Study Award (ISA) in a previous summer. Yale College students on financial aid during the academic year will automatically receive this assistance by answering the relevant question on the application. No separate application is required. Summer Pell Grants The Summer Pell Grant is an extension of the Federal Pell Grant program, which provides undergraduate students with need-based grants to promote access to postsecondary education. Student Loans Students enrolled in Yale Summer Session may be eligible for a variety of student loans. Yale College students may apply for certain types of summer loans through Undergraduate Financial Aid. Please contact Undergraduate Financial Aid for more information. All Yale College students are eligible to apply for positions on the summer residential life staff. Learn about the positions and benefits here. For Yale Summer Session Programs Abroad If you are applying to a Yale Summer Session Program Abroad, review financial assistance eligibility on the Yale Study Abroad website under Need-based Funding. As noted, students who wish to study abroad but have already used their ISA award in a previous summer are eligible to receive the 50% tuition assistance for up to two credits outlined above. Further information about paying for Yale Summer Session Programs Abroad is available here. Application Fee Waiver Yale College students whose Safety Net percentage is 80% or above will receive an application fee waiver. The Safety Net percentage is the same as the ISA percentage in SIS. The application fee is also waived for students who have already participated in a Yale Summer Session program in New Haven, abroad, or online. The waiver is applied on the application. Other Assistance (visiting/non-Yale College students) Ph.D. candidates in the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences may apply for a Summer Foreign Language Institute Fellowship through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Master's degree candidates and professional school students should contact their own financial aid officers for information on the eligibility criteria for loans for summer courses and their availability. Visiting students should contact the financial aid office at their home institutions to discuss their options for financial assistance. Federal regulations prohibit Yale's Student Financial Services from processing any federal financial aid for students who are not enrolled in a degree program at Yale. Student Financial Services will, however, consider certifying nonfederal supplemental loans. Tuition Reduction for Yale Employees Permanent full- and part-time Yale employees (20 or more hours per week) accepted to Yale Summer Session may receive reduced tuition through Yale's Educational Assistance Program. Full-time staff members receive up to 50% reduction in course tuition, and part-time employees will receive a prorated reduction. Forms to request the tuition reduction benefit may be obtained here. You must apply and be accepted to Yale Summer Session, and you need to check the appropriate employee box under the Program Choice section of the application. The tuition reduction will appear on the tuition bill. Note: For questions on funding YSS courses, Yale College students can contact YSS.funding@yale.edu. Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance YSS COVID-19 Courses and Housing Subsidies Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in