Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Contact Us About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Academic Support Resources Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / About Us / For Faculty For Faculty Newcomb-Tulane College Summer School will offer both online and in-person courses for Summer 2022 To submit a proposal to teach a summer course, please submit the NTC Summer School Course Proposal. NTC Summer School is offering three sessions: Two 2-week sessions, and one 5-week session. Term Start End Days Weeks Meets Class Times Maymester 5/16/2022 5/27/2022 12 2 M-F 10am - 3pm Early Summer 5/31/2022 7/1/2022 32 5 M-F See Below Late Summer 7/5/2021 8/5/2021 33 5 M-F See Below *Session Dates take into account the Memorial and Independence Day holidays. The University will be closed on Monday, May 30th in observance of the Memorial Day holiday and Monday, July 4th in observance of Independence Day. Some students use summer school to catch up or get ahead and may need to take two classes during the Early or Late Summer sessions. To accommodate this schedule please use the following class meeting times. Please note that virtual classes will still be expected to abide by the below class meeting times. 9:00 - 10:30 11:00 - 12:30 1:00 -2:30 (no lab allowed) 3:00 - 4:30 (no lab allowed) Summer Course Proposals Please submit class offerings according to the Registrar's Office timeline and continue to use CourseLeaf CLSS. The process of approval is as follows: Faculty submits course Frist approval: Department Chair Second approval: School Dean Third approval: NTC Summer School Before issuing approval, the NTC Summer School staff will take the following into consideration: Past enrollment numbers Waitlist numbers for previous fall and spring semesters Cost analysis of instruction Other relevant information Instructional contracts for summer teaching are not guaranteed and they are contingent upon a course enrollment minimum of 8 officially enrolled students. A course must have a minimum of 8 students for the instructor to receive their full summer salary. The student minimum will be enforced on a course-by-course basis and not calculated on a departmental average. Graders and Lab Assistants Graders and Lab Assistants are not to be listed on the Course Proposal Form, and only classes with 20 or more students enrolled will be eligible to have graders. Courses will have the opportunity to request a Grader(s) or Lab Assistant(s) after they have been approved. If you would like to request a grader or lab assistant, please submit the below form by April 5th, 2021. Request for Student Assistance If you have any questions about your NTC Summer School course, please contact us at summerschool@tulane.edu or kruckstuhl@tulane.edu. Link to Tulane Home Page Summer School Newcomb-Tulane College Mussafer Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.314.2669 Maps & Directions Contact Us FAQ School of Professional Advancement Newcomb-Tulane College Pre-College Programs News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University