Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers FAQ Arts in the Summer Menu Overview Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Requirements Contacts FAQ Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Summer Courses Below are answers to frequently asked questions about Arts in the Summer. Expand All How selective is this program? The Arts in the Summer Program is a great option for individuals who would like to explore the Arts. The application process is clear, fast, and simple. Please consult with a Summer Sessions Advisor and review this page. What is the difference between this program and the regular Visiting program? Students admitted to the Arts in the Summer Program can enroll in Film, Writing, Visual Arts, and Theatre classes. If a student is interested in taking a course outside of these four subjects, they should apply to the Visiting Student Program, pending appropriate eligibility. How and when are admissions decisions communicated? Decision notifications are sent via email. Admission decisions are typically communicated 5–7 business days after an application is complete. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy