Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Sounds of Summer Fest June242022 05:00 p.m. 09:00 p.m. EST RSVP Back to Events Sounds of Summer Fest Join the Columbia University Summer Session for the Sounds of Summer Fest! The Sounds of Summer Fest features up-and-coming New York City artists curated across genres over two days in June and August. On June 24, the series kicks off with CILLA, Bandits on the Run, MICHELLE, and Duendita. Don’t miss an evening full of live music, free giveaways, and delicious snacks. Sounds of Summer Fest June 24 | 5:00 p.m.–9:00 p.m. ET Roone Arledge Auditorium, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 FEATURING CILLA Cilla is a pop soul independent artist from Woodside, New York. Currently on the come up, Cilla has found her way to some of NYC’s most famous stages, including the Gramercy Theatre, METLIFE, Radio City Music Hall, and many more. Cilla is currently in studio preparing for her summer 2022 project. Bandits on the Run Bandits on the Run is an indie-folk-pop-americana outfit consisting of three lead singers, a guitar, a cello, a suitcase drum, an accordion, and various toy instruments. Their genre-defying sound has been lauded by the likes of NPR, Rolling Stone, Earmilk, Paste, and Billboard. They hail from Brooklyn, NY and are known for their vivacious performance style, unexpected theatrical antics, soaring harmonies, and ability to make music-magic happen everywhere from a lonesome subway platform to a crowded concert hall. MICHELLE Born-and-bred New Yorkers, MICHELLE formed in 2018 and is comprised of Sofia D'Angelo, Julian Kaufman, Charlie Kilgore, Layla Ku, Emma Lee and Jamee Lockard. The predominantly POC and queer collective mix and match the writing and production groups amongst the six of them. The hallmarks of MICHELLE's music—layered vocal harmonies, analog synthesizers, vibrant percussion, smoldering hooks—dominate the sonic landscape of their latest album, “After Dinner We Talk Dreams.” duendita duendita is an artist hailing from Queens, New York. They write and produce their own music, imbuing it with a reverence for their ancestry and faith, carried by the airy nostalgia of their vocals. With their achy, bass-coated tones and mix of jazz, piano, soul, and R&B, duendita’s music is evocative of the complexities and sentimentality of the human experience. The Sounds of Summer Fest returns on August 9 with CILLA, 79.5, Juice, and Pom Pom Squad. All students enrolled in the Columbia University Summer Session may register to attend. This event will be held in person. For questions, please contact sps-events@columbia.edu. Please note the COVID-19 requirements for this event. COVID-19 Requirements: To attend this event, Columbia University ID holders must review and complete the required protocol for coming to campus. Masking indoors is optional. No assumptions should be made regarding why an individual chooses to mask. All attendees must follow Columbia’s Covid-19 Policies and Guidelines. Columbia University is committed to creating and maintaining an environment that is free of alcohol abuse. The University complies with New York State law and other applicable regulations governing alcoholic beverages for those on the University's premises or participating in its activities. Consumption of alcohol is prohibited at this event. There will also be no location for bag security storage. Any large backpacks will not be permitted into the event. For additional information about program offerings for Columbia University Summer Sessions, please contact an Admissions counselor at 212-854-9666 or summersessions@columbia.edu. Speakers 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy