Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Sessions | Courses | Earth and Environmental Sciences Back to Subject Areas Contact Information Admissions/Advising 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu https://sps.columbia.edu/admissions/visiting-students/contact Earth and Environmental Sciences No courses are being offered in Summer 2022 at this time. Please check back for updates. Summer 2022 Session Information SESSION A (First Half Term) courses are May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B (Second Half Term) courses are July 5–August 12, 2022 SESSION X (Full Term) courses are May 23–August 12, 2022 Courses Select Method of Instruction In-Person Select Session Session B X Summer Session Expand All Dinosaurs and the History of Life EESC1004S001 3 points. Dinosaurs explores how science works and provide practical knowledge about the history of life and how we have come to understand it. We learn how to analyze the evolutionary relationships of organisms and examine how dinosaurs came to be exemplars of a very successful group of organisms dominant on land for 140 million years. We will delve deeply into how direct descendants of small carnivorous theropod dinosaurs evolved into birds, still more diverse than mammals, dominating the air. The Mesozoic, a “hot-house world”, with no ice caps and was the kind of world we are hurtling towards because of our input of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, and we will look at how their time is a natural experiment for our future. The non-avian dinosaur met their end in a remarkable cataclysm discovered by detective work that we will delve deeply into as a paradigm of the scientific method Finally, they are fun and spectacular - monsters more fantastic than any person has invented in legend or religion - and they are still with us! Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location EESC1004S001 001/10467 Session B Mo 01:00 PM–04:10 PM We 01:00 PM–04:10 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Paul Olsen 3 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person An Introduction to Complex Climate Risks EESC5415G001 2 points. Extreme climate and weather events can lead to cascading failures that can spread within and across socio-environmental systems and sectors, often disproportionally affecting underserved communities. Climate change is projected to lead to more frequent and more severe extreme weather events amplifying the likelihood of Complex Climate Risks through multivariate, concurrent, and sequential climate extremes affecting societal systems (e.g., food, health, supply chains, finance) and critical infrastructure (e.g., water, energy, communication, transportation) in complicated ways that are challenging to anticipate and prepare for. Understanding and mitigating Complex Climate Risks in a changing climate in compliance with climate equity and justice requires joint efforts from a broad range of scientific communities across disciplines and temporal and spatial scales - from local to global extent, synoptic to decadal variability, and hazard characterization to detailed risk and impact assessment. In recognition that univariate risk assessments might fail to acknowledge amplified risks for societies, from inter-related hazards and affected sectors, a complex risk perspective is increasingly required in the context of understanding climate impacts, resilience and adaptation. This course will provide an introduction to Complex Climate Risks by discussing recent frameworks developed to address them under current and future climate conditions. Several recent real-world events in which societal impacts were amplified by compounding climatic drivers and interactions with societal systems, leading to e.g. conflicts and migration, amplified mortality and failure of critical infrastructures are reviewed. Examples include the 2010 heatwave which caused increased mortality and harvest failures and their connection to the Arab Spring uprising a year later, the links of a year-long with the Syrian Civil and the mass migration that followed in 2015 and the 2021 February Texas cold spell that left millions without electricity and water for days under severe cold conditions in particular in poorer neighborhoods. This course will provide the students with a thorough understanding of Complex Climate Risks, the typology of different compounding hazards and statistical approaches bridging the physical and societal spheres for a more integral climate risk assessment. Guided by recent literature quantitative and qualitative frameworks that aim at assessing current and future climate risks to turn them into actionable information for hazard prevention and climate adaptation are discussed. The course will end with a discussion about whether the challenges to managing complex climate risk relate to challenges in assessing them, or whether existing forms of management and governance need to be reconsidered. A basic understanding of the climate system and a sincere interest of climate-societal interactions are favorable for succeeding in this course. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location EESC5415G001 001/12314 Session B Tu 03:30 PM–05:00 PM Th 03:30 PM–05:00 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Kai Kornhuber 2 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person RESEARCH IN EARTH & ENVIR SCI EESC9001G001 12 points. Prerequisites: the permission of the instructor in charge of the students field of research. Individual research in the students field of specialization. The research may lead to a doctoral dissertation or to contributions for publications. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location EESC9001G001 001/12409 X Summer Session Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Mingfang Ting 12 Registration Block (no Adds) (self-man. Wait List) In-Person There were no courses found matching those criteria. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy