Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Sessions | Courses | Religion Back to Subject Areas Contact Information Admissions/Advising 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu https://sps.columbia.edu/admissions/visiting-students/contact Religion The Religion Department is committed to the rigorous exploration of the growth and development of religious traditions, their historical and contemporary influence in shaping cultures and societies, and their wide-ranging roles in shaping changing global contexts. Check the Directory of Classes for the most up-to-date course information. Summer 2022 Session Information SESSION A (First Half Term) courses are May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B (Second Half Term) courses are July 5–August 12, 2022 SESSION X (Full Term) courses are May 23–August 12, 2022 Courses Select Method of Instruction In-Person Select Session Session A Session B Expand All Religion and the History of Hip Hop RELI1612W001 4 points. This is an undergraduate lecture course introducing students to the study of religion through an engagement with the history of hip hop music. More specifically, this course is organized chronologically to narrate a history of religion in the United States (circa 1970 to the present day) by mapping the ways that a variety of religious ideas and practices have animated rap music’s evolution and expansion during this time period. While there are no required prerequisites for the course, prior coursework in religious studies, African American studies, and/or popular music is helpful. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI1612W001 001/10106 Session A Mo 01:00 PM–04:10 PM We 01:00 PM–04:10 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Josef Sorett 4 Registration Block (no Adds) (self-man. Wait List) In-Person Religion and the History of Hip Hop - Discussion RELI1613W001 0 points. This is an undergraduate lecture course introducing students to the study of religion through an engagement with the history of hip hop music. More specifically, this course is organized chronologically to narrate a history of religion in the United States (circa 1970 to the present day) by mapping the ways that a variety of religious ideas and practices have animated rap music’s evolution and expansion during this time period. While there are no required prerequisites for the course, prior coursework in religious studies, African American studies, and/or popular music is helpful. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI1613W001 001/10107 Session A Mo 01:00 PM–01:50 PM We 01:00 PM–01:50 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Josef Sorett 0 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person Religion and the History of Hip Hop - Discussion RELI1613W002 0 points. This is an undergraduate lecture course introducing students to the study of religion through an engagement with the history of hip hop music. More specifically, this course is organized chronologically to narrate a history of religion in the United States (circa 1970 to the present day) by mapping the ways that a variety of religious ideas and practices have animated rap music’s evolution and expansion during this time period. While there are no required prerequisites for the course, prior coursework in religious studies, African American studies, and/or popular music is helpful. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI1613W002 002/13345 Session A Mo 01:00 PM–01:50 PM We 01:00 PM–01:50 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Josef Sorett 0 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person Religion and the History of Hip Hop - Discussion RELI1613W003 0 points. This is an undergraduate lecture course introducing students to the study of religion through an engagement with the history of hip hop music. More specifically, this course is organized chronologically to narrate a history of religion in the United States (circa 1970 to the present day) by mapping the ways that a variety of religious ideas and practices have animated rap music’s evolution and expansion during this time period. While there are no required prerequisites for the course, prior coursework in religious studies, African American studies, and/or popular music is helpful. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI1613W003 003/13346 Session A Mo 01:00 PM–01:50 PM We 01:00 PM–01:50 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Josef Sorett 0 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person ISLAM RELI2305S001 4 points. This course is designed as an introduction to the Islamic religion, both in its pre-modern and modern manifestations. The semester begins with a survey of the central elements that unite a diverse community of Muslim peoples from a variety of geographical and cultural backgrounds. This includes a look at the Prophet and the Qur'an and the ways in which both were actualized in the development of ritual, jurisprudence, theology, and sufism/mysticism. The course then shifts to the modern period, examining the impact of colonization and the rise of liberal secularism on the Muslim world. The tension between traditional Sunni and Shi'i systems of authority and movements for 'modernization' and/or 'reform' feature prominently in these readings. Topics range from intellectual attempts at societal/religious reform (e.g. Islamic Revivalism, Modernism, Progressivism) and political re-interpretations of traditional Islamic motifs (e.g. Third-Worldism and Jihadist discourse) to efforts at accommodating scientific and technological innovations (e.g. evolution, bioethics ). The class ends by examining the efforts of American and European Muslim communities to carve out distinct spheres of identity in the larger global Muslim community ( umma) through expressions of popular culture (e.g. Hip-Hop). Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI2305S001 001/10105 Session B Mo 01:00 PM–05:00 PM We 01:00 PM–05:00 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Najam Haider 4 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person ISLAM RELI2305S002 4 points. This course is designed as an introduction to the Islamic religion, both in its pre-modern and modern manifestations. The semester begins with a survey of the central elements that unite a diverse community of Muslim peoples from a variety of geographical and cultural backgrounds. This includes a look at the Prophet and the Qur'an and the ways in which both were actualized in the development of ritual, jurisprudence, theology, and sufism/mysticism. The course then shifts to the modern period, examining the impact of colonization and the rise of liberal secularism on the Muslim world. The tension between traditional Sunni and Shi'i systems of authority and movements for 'modernization' and/or 'reform' feature prominently in these readings. Topics range from intellectual attempts at societal/religious reform (e.g. Islamic Revivalism, Modernism, Progressivism) and political re-interpretations of traditional Islamic motifs (e.g. Third-Worldism and Jihadist discourse) to efforts at accommodating scientific and technological innovations (e.g. evolution, bioethics ). The class ends by examining the efforts of American and European Muslim communities to carve out distinct spheres of identity in the larger global Muslim community ( umma) through expressions of popular culture (e.g. Hip-Hop). Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI2305S002 002/11847 Session A Mo 01:00 PM–05:00 PM We 01:00 PM–05:00 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Najam Haider 4 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person Introduction to Islamic Law RELI2322W001 3 points. The platform of every modern “Islamist” political party calls for the implementation of “the shari‘a.” This term is invariably (and incorrectly) interpreted as an unchanging legal code dating back to 7th century Arabia. In reality, Islamic law is an organic and constantly evolving human project aimed at ascertaining God’s will in a given historical and cultural context. This course offers an introduction to the major concepts in Islamic law including its basic method and its interactions with modernity. The first part of the semester is dedicated to “classical” Islamic jurisprudence, concentrating on the manner in which jurists used the Qur’an, the Sunna (the model of the Prophet), and rationality to articulate a coherent legal system. The second part of the course focuses on those areas of the law that engender passionate debate and controversy in the contemporary world. Specifically, we examine the discourse surrounding gender (marriage, divorce, and personhood) and crime/punishment. The course ends by directly engaging issues associated with modernity with a particular focus on science (evolution) and medicine (medical ethics). This class is designed as a broad introduction to the Islamic law with case studies scattered throughout the semester. The format of individual class sessions will vary from topic to topic but students should anticipate *extensive* participation. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location RELI2322W001 001/00015 Session B Tu 01:00 PM–04:10 PM Th 01:00 PM–04:10 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Najam Haider 3 Closed for Online Registration (no Adds or Drops) There were no courses found matching those criteria. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy