Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer 2022 Columbia Summer 2022 Menu Overview Important Dates Arts and Humanities Economics and Finance Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences Social Justice and Public Policy New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer Request Information Apply Request Information Apply New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer The Columbia University Summer Session takes a unique approach to learning. It offers curated educational, social, and cultural experiences to connect students with each other and Columbia faculty as well as opportunities to explore New York landmarks and institutions, from the Metropolitan Museum of Art to Broadway. Immerse yourself in our signature experiential learning approach. See New York City Through the Lens of Columbia Faculty. Watch your syllabus come to life in New York City, a global hub of innovation, the arts, and business. From course-related movie screenings to closed museum tours just for Columbians, students will experience New York’s iconic landmarks and cultural institutions—with a scholarly perspective. Courses on the arts, from Shakespeare to Off-Broadway to religion and hip hop, come alive during university-organized visits to one of New York’s 1,000+ art galleries, 40+ theaters, and countless cultural sites and television and film sets. Learn more about the discounted fares and free admission Columbia students can access on their own time. Explore Your Interests, on and off Campus Explore New York City Boat Cruise: Have lunch on a private boat as we tour the perimeter of Manhattan and get a special view of the Statue of Liberty. The National September 11 Memorial Museum: Visit this breathtaking memorial and historic site. Broadway: Attend popular productions including Dear Evan Hansen, Macbeth, Beetlejuice, and Aladdin. ARTECHOUSE NYC: Art and technology meet in this one of a kind experience showcasing data to create beautifully imagery through massive projections. Pride March and LGBTQ+ History Tour of NYC : Make meaning of the landmarks that have sustained the LGBTQ community of New York for decades. Mets and Yankees Baseball: Nothing says summer more than an afternoon at the ballpark. Watch our home teams win a game and enjoy some complimentary popcorn. Explore Columbia Gain access to unique lectures given by our world-class faculty and other special campus events where you can network and build community. Attend unique Summer Session lectures by some of our renowned faculty: "Say It Loud: Poets, Preachers, and the Politics of Black Faith" with Dr. Josef Sorett, Professor and Chair, Department of Religion; Professor, Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies Dr. Paul Olsen, Arthur D. Storke Memorial Professor, Biology and Paleo Environment, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO), The Earth Institute Jonathan Weiner, Maxwell M. Geffen Professor of Medical and Scientific Journalism, Columbia Journalism School "Thinking Like an Entrepreneur," with Dr. Jack McGourty and special guests, Director of Community and Global Entrepreneurship, Columbia Business School Build Your Connections and Your Career in a Global Hub. Unique to the Columbia Summer Session is the Summer Career Design Workshop for visiting students. Visiting students receive robust and practical career coaching, from interview and resume writing, to advice on building your own personal brand, including social media guidance and time with a professional photographer for a polished LinkedIn headshot. Join us for the first events in the series, the Career Design Workshop, facilitated by the Career Design Lab's Director of Career Education and Development Diane Spizzirro, and Interviewing Skills for Career Growth, led by Steve Safier, Ph.D., who directs Columbia University's M.S. in Human Capital Management program. Make Lifelong Connections and Friendships. Each summer, individuals from virtually every region, background, and level of education converge on Columbia’s campus to enrich their lives through learning, creating countless opportunities to meet new people with similar—or different—interests. Co-curricular events such as welcome socials, panel discussions, group trips to sporting events, and screenings provide countless ways to bond with fellow passionate students from around the world. Summer Session students range from Columbia and Barnard undergraduates fulfilling degree requirements, to professionals taking a course to refine a skill, to visiting graduate and undergraduate students from other institutions across the U.S. and around the world. Sounds of Summer Fest The Sounds of Summer Fest features up-and-coming New York City artists curated across genres over two days in June and August. On June 24, the series kicks off with CILLA, Bandits on the Run, MICHELLE, and Duendita. The festival returns on August 9 with CILLA, 79.5, Juice, and Pom Pom Squad. Contact Us Stay in-the-know about the Summer 2022 application, registration dates, and course listings by signing up for updates here: Request Information Receive updates and information about the application. Sign Up Here Contact An Advisor Speak With a Non-Degree Admissions Counselor. 212-854-9666 summersessions@columbia.edu Registration Information Registration for Summer 2022 courses is now open. Are you a high school student? Specific information about Pre-College programs can be found here. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy