Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers FAQ Current Columbia Students Menu Overview Tuition & Fees Housing Registration Information Enrolled Students FAQ Contact Request Information Enroll Request Information Enroll Summer Courses Below are some frequently asked questions about studying in the summer. Expand All Do I need to apply for Summer Sessions? Matriculating Columbia students do not need to apply for Summer Sessions. Can I register on SSOL? Students enrolled in an undergraduate school (CC,GS, SEAS) will have registration/ enrollment appointments on SSOL for Summer Sessions. Some graduate schools will be able to register via SSOL; however, please consult with your program adviser to confirm. Is there a waitlist for summer classes? Waitlists are available for the summer term. If a preferred class is full, we encourage students to add themselves to the waitlist and enroll in an alternate course.Often students will change their courses through the last day of Change of Program and students can get into their first choice course. What is the protocol for Barnard students? Barnard students do not need to apply for Summer Sessions; however, prior to registering for summer class(es), students should submit the Application for Approval of Summer Sessions Courses to the Barnard Registrar’s Office. Once approved, you should be able to register/ enroll for classes via SSOL. I am an incoming Columbia College freshman. Can I register for classes before my first year starts? If you have been accepted to Columbia College for Fall 2022, you can take classes in the summer before your studies begin by applying to the Undergraduate Visiting Program. Please consult with an Admissions Counselor at summersessions@columbia.edu to obtain proper application instructions. I am an incoming Columbia College student. Do I need transcripts from my previous college before I transferred? Transcripts are generally required for all summer program applications. Please check with an Admissions Counselor at summersessions@columbia.edu to confirm. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy