Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Madeline Morris: Preparing to Work for Stephen Colbert Madeline Morris: Preparing to Work for Stephen Colbert Undergraduate Visiting Student Madeline Morris was drawn from the University of Virginia to Columbia University during Columbia Summer 2017 for the Arts in the Summer program. What initially brought you to Columbia and why did you choose to enroll in Arts in Summer? During my senior year at the University of Virginia, where I am working toward a biomedical engineering degree, I went through a sort of crisis. After spending a semester applying for jobs I didn’t want with little to no success, I decided to take some time to think about what activities made me the happiest and to try and look there for a sense of professional fulfillment. I decided to take the plunge and pursue a career in writing and entertainment. The Columbia Arts in the Summer program seemed like the perfect way to meet people and bolster skills I didn’t necessarily get during my undergraduate career. Arts in the Summer at Columbia has been part of my transition into turning my passions into a career. What classes did you take and why do you think the skills learned in these classes have been beneficial? I took How to Write Funny with Patricia Marx and Creative Nonfiction with Anelise Chen. As someone who has never formally studied creative writing, it’s been endlessly helpful to learn about humor and compelling storytelling in an academic context. Because both of my classes were workshop based, I also had the opportunity to share with and hear from my classmates, while receiving and providing constructive criticism from my professors and my peers. Also, both classes were an amazing means of meeting new people that I might have otherwise never encountered. I have classmates from China and Denmark, and multiple classmates are U.S. vets who have spent time in Afghanistan. It’s been enjoyable and eye-opening to meet these people. What are you hoping to do with your experience? This fall I’m starting as an intern at The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, which I’m thrilled about. I’m hoping to enter the workforce with a new confidence in my writing and better habits in regards to writing more often. I think the skills I’ve learned in my classes will be helpful in both of these endeavors. Not only have I spent the summer honing my writing, but I’ve met a lot of other creative professionals and will hopefully start my internship feeling comfortable in a creative environment! News All news Elyse Cox: Experiencing New York City History Firsthand Tyler Adams: Learning Essential Digital Marketing Concepts 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy