Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords FAQs You are here Home / About YSS / FAQs / FAQs Welcome to Yale Summer Session! We’re excited that you're interested in learning more about us. Find the answers to frequently asked questions in the following categores: TOC: Programs and Courses FAQ: What programs do you offer at Yale Summer Session? Yale Summer Session (YSS) offers a variety of courses and programs for Yale College credit. We also offer several non-credit programs. To learn more about the programs we offer, take a look at our Academics page. FAQ: Can I earn Yale College credit? Yes, all credit-bearing courses offer Yale College credit. FAQ: What courses do you offer? YSS offers courses across the liberal arts curriculum, in arts, humanities, and the natural and social sciences. Check out our courses page for the full list of offerings. FAQ: How can I change my course selection or add/drop a course? You can request a course change through the change form. You can drop a course at any point, but after a certain date the dropped course will show as a W (for “withdrawn”) on your transcript. You may not add a course after the Wednesday before the start of the session the course is in. FAQ: How many courses can I take? You can take 2 credits per session. International students and high school students are required to take 2 credits and maintain full time enrollment status. International students in the noncredit certificate programs can enroll in one program, which is a full time course load. FAQ: Is there tutoring available? Yes, we have tutoring in the summer. It's free to all Yale Summer Session students. Read more about tutoring here. FAQ: How do I get my grades after Yale Summer Session? Grades will be available online, on the Yale University Student Information Systems website (SIS), within one month of the end of each session. Upon request, Yale Summer Session will mail a final grade report to a student's permanent home address. Grades will not be given over the telephone or by e-mail. No grade reports for any session will be issued to students who are financially indebted to the University. Log into SIS to verify your summer grades are posted. Once you can view your grades in SIS, you can order an official transcript. If you don't see your grades in SIS, don't order a transcript just yet. Transcripts will not be issued to any student who is financially indebted to the University. Because there is a fee to order an official transcript, it is most economical to order multiple copies at the same time. FAQ: Where can I find a class syllabus? Some syllabi are posted on our website. If you don’t find the syllabus you’re looking for, we recommend that you reach out to your instructor. You can find your instructor’s email in the Yale Directory. FAQ: Can I audit a Yale Summer Session course? Auditing is not allowed in courses taught in New Haven, Abroad, or Online. FAQ: Do Yale Summer Session courses have pre-requisites? Some courses have pre-requisites. To enroll, your transcript must show that you have the met the pre-requisite(s). Course numbers do not necessarily indicate the level of the course. If a course has no pre-requisites, it is open to any student. Some courses are not open to high school students. Please check course descriptions for details. FAQ: Can I transfer the credits from Yale back to my home institution? Yale Summer Session offers undergraduate courses for credit. If you are taking a course for credit, you should ask your home institution about the process to transfer the credit back. After successful completion of a course for credit, you'll be able to order an official Yale transcript, or an unofficial grade report which shows your grade in the course. Usually 1 Yale credit=4 credit hours at another U.S. university. Each 1 credit course is at least 32.5 hours per week. FAQ: What is the average class size in the summer? The average Yale Summer Session course is 10-12 students. Online Courses FAQ: Are there live class discussion sections online? Yes! All online courses have scheduled live class discussion sections multiple times a week. The classes are required to attend and student must have a web cam. FAQ: Can I earn Yale College credit online in the summer? Yes! Yale Summer Session online courses award Yale College credit. FAQ: Are online courses self-paced? Online work is not exclusively self-study or self-paced, you will need to be available to meet live online for classes during the course of the 5-week session. See course descriptions for class schedules. FAQ: What is the workload of an online course? Yale Summer Session courses are compressed to five weeks and taught at an accelerated pace resulting in a heavier weekly workload. It is important to consider this when planning summer activities and applying for courses; students should expect to devote about 15 total hours per week, per course. FAQ: What are the technical requirements for taking an online course? Please see the online important information page for technical requirements. FAQ: Can I study abroad and take an online course at the same time? No. Students cannot study abroad and take an online course at the same time. Admission and Application FAQ: When does the application open? The application will open on February 15, 2022. FAQ: I am a high school student. Am I eligible to participate in Yale Summer Session? Pre-college applicants must be entering into their senior year of high school (summer after junior year) or freshman year of college (summer after senior year). Applicants must be 16 years of age or older by their program start date. FAQ: How long will I have to wait for a response to my application? You should expect an admissions decision within 10 business days of submitting your completed application. Check your email for notification. Students in the Drama program, Yale Writers' Workshop and the Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp should refer to program pages for admissions information and timelines. FAQ: How and where do I send my transcript? You can upload your transcript as part of your application. FAQ: How do I apply? You can apply online! Visit our Apply page for more details. FAQ: What is the application deadline? To view the application & payment deadlines for the program you are interested in, visit our Dates and Deadlines page. FAQ: What are the application requirements? Please visit our apply page to see the requirements for each type of student. FAQ: What is the Summer Session admission criteria? Does Summer Session require a minimum GPA? Our admission decisions are based entirely on each applicant’s individual application and whether the student demonstrates a history of academic success. Application submissions are reviewed holistically, taking every section of the application into consideration. There is no specific GPA requirement. FAQ: Are students required to be vaccinated? Upon being admitted into the residential program, students will be required to upload their immunization records to the Yale Health Center if they haven't already. International Students FAQ: I am an international student. What are the language requirements? English proficiency is required for all credit-bearing courses. Please see the application requirements for international students. If you do not have the required English proficiency, try one of our noncredit certificate programs for international students! FAQ: What visa do I need? How do I get it? All international students are required to come on an F1 Student Visa. Please see more information on acquiring a visa for International Students here. FAQ: What programs are open to visiting international students? International students may apply to the following programs: Yale College Courses for Credit: Session A and B (TOEFL Score required) Yale Summer Online (TOEFL Score required) Certificate Programs for International Students (Intensive English, Postgraduate Seminar, Law Seminar, Business Seminar, TEFL seminar, University Preparation Program) Summer Drama Program (TOEFL Score required) Yale Writers' Workshop FAQ: How long will it take to get my I-20? Upon admission to Yale Summer Session, our office will process Form I-20 and send it to your email, with instructions for proceeding to obtain your F-1 visa. You will receive the more information by three weeks after you are admitted to the program. FAQ: Can I arrive in the U.S. early or stay after the program ends to vacation in the U.S.? Students on F1 student visas may arrive in the U.S. up to 30 days before your program start date, and remain in the U.S. up to 60 days after the program end date. Payment FAQ: How can I pay my bill? Once you are admitted to Yale Summer Session, an invoice for your expenses is automatically generated. Please visit our How to Pay page for more instructions. FAQ: Do you offer financial aid? We only offer financial assistance to Yale College students. Visiting students should contact the financial aid office at their home institutions to discuss their options for financial assistance. FAQ: What is the total cost to attend? This depends on what program you chose, and if you live on or off campus. You can find information on tuition and fees on our dates and costs page. There are also tuition calculators on many of the program pages. Living on Campus FAQ: Where do students live? Students may choose to live on campus in one of the summer residential colleges (Morse, Stiles, and Berkeley) or off campus. FAQ: What is in my room? Student rooms are furnished with a twin bed (extra-long), mattress, pillow, blanket, dresser, desk, and chair. FAQ: What should I pack? Participants should bring their own sheets (twin, extra-long) and towels, as well as a lamp and a fan, if desired. Household items (including lamps and sheets) are available for purchase at the Yale Bookstore. Summer in New Haven is hot and humid, with cool weather at night, and occasional rain. Dress is generally casual, but you may wish to bring something more formal for special events. FAQ: Do I need to bring a laptop or computer? Most students bring laptops, which they can connect to Yale's campus-wide wireless network. Computer clusters with printers are available in the residential colleges and libraries. There is a small fee for printing. FAQ: Will I have a roommate? Students are housed in suites with other students of the same gender and similar age. Most students will share a room with one other student. If you have a special medical need and require a single, please let us know. FAQ: Is there air conditioning in the residential colleges? No, the student rooms are not air conditioned. Bring a fan or plan to buy one when you get here. Several common areas do have AC, so there are places to cool off on hot days. FAQ: What will I do when I am not in class? Are there any activities? Yes! We have a full residential program of activities! We have shopping trips, intramural sports, trips to the beach, day trips to New York City, and there is always something fun to do on campus in the evenings in the Buttery. Some may require a small fee, and many are free. Visit the activities calendar to learn more about extracurricular trips and activities. FAQ: What is the Buttery? A Buttery is the student cafe. There is one in each of Yale's residential colleges. FAQ: Will I have a meal plan? Yes, all students living on campus are enrolled in a full meal plan. The dining halls serve gluten free, vegetarian and vegan options at all meals. If you have any additional dietary requirements, please contact us. FAQ: Will I have a counselor or someone to help me? Yes, we have a full residential staff to support students and organize events. FAQ: Is there a curfew? Students who are under 18 do have a curfew. It is 11:00 pm Sunday-Thursday, and 1:00 am Friday and Saturday nights. Students who are under 18 and would like to leave campus for a night or weekend will need to provide written permission from a parent or guardian. FAQ: Can I leave campus? Yes, you are free to leave campus. If you are under 18, you must be back in your residential college by curfew. FAQ: When can I check-in to on campus housing? Please refer to Registration and Housing Check In for more information about arrival to campus and for information about dates if you need to make travel arrangements to get to New Haven, CT. FAQ: Can I arrive early or stay late? If you are under 21, you can arrive a day earlier than the start of your program and stay on campus. Students must check out on thier checkout date. If you are over 21, you must check into a hotel or make other arrangements. We will send an email with a form to collect late or early arrival information shortly before your program begins. Please note that we do not allow late arrival to Yale Summer Session. After classes begin, students are not allowed to register. FAQ: How can I add or drop housing? You can add or dop housing through the Change form. FAQ: What if I have a special housing need? Please let us know what you need. We will do what we can to accommodate medical needs. FAQ: What else do I need to know about living on campus? You can find it all on our Residential Things to Know page! Access to Yale Campus FAQ: What is a Net ID? Your NetID is your digital identity at Yale. Your NetID cannot be changed. You will be required to provide this NetID and a password when you log into certain sites that require authentication. After joining the Yale community, Yale will send you an initial PIN and NetID information via email. You must use this to activate your NetID before you can access any web site that requires authentication. Your NetID can only be activated once. You will receive 2 emails within 2 weeks of admission with your NetID and PIN, and instructions. FAQ: Can I use the Yale gym and libraries? Yes, all Yale Summer Session students have access to the Payne Whitney Gym and the libraries on campus. FAQ: Will I get a Yale student ID? Yes, all Yale Summer Session students MUST get a Yale student ID. Your Yale Student ID card allows you to access Yale's libraries, residential colleges, dining halls, and much more. Once you have activated your Yale NetID, you can upload a photo for your Yale ID card on the Yale ID Center website. If you are studying in Session A, please submit your photo by May 18 in order to guarantee adequate processing time; upload your photo by June 22 for Session B. FAQ: Will I get a Yale email address? Yale does not provide email accounts to summer students. FAQ: How do I get to Yale? Please see our travel information for details on how to get to the Yale campus. FAQ: Is there wifi? Yes, the Yale campus has free wifi. Yale Students FAQ: Please tell me more about Summer Session Financial Assistance. Yale Summer Session offers financial assistance for tuition to Yale College students who receive financial aid during the regular academic year. Financial assistance covers 50% of the tuition of one course, and you may receive financial assistance for a maximum of two credits each summer (a maximum award of $4,350 for summer 2020). Yale College students on financial aid during the academic year will automatically receive this assistance by answering the relevant question on the application. No separate application is required. Students on financial aid during the academic year may also be eligible for Summer Pell Grants and for low interest loans to cover the remaining cost of YSS courses. Yale College students may also apply to be a residential counselor during the summer. Residential counselors are given free room and board for the orientation period and the ten weeks of the program, plus a tuition reduction for the equivalent of one summer course credit. FAQ: How can I be a Residential Counselor? Any currently enrolled Yale student or graduate student in good academic standing or any Yale alumnus is eligible to apply. As compensation for the job of a Residential Counselor, students receive free room and board for the orientation period and the ten weeks of summer session, plus a tuition waiver for the equivalent of one summer course credit. Learn more here! FAQ: Do I need to apply? Yes, you must fill out the online application form. Additional Questions FAQ: What are the rules at Yale Summer Session? Please view the Yale Summer Session Student Handbook. FAQ: Wait! I have more questions! Please contact us at summer.session@yale.edu if you have additional questions. About Yale Summer Session FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in