Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Narrative Medicine Narrative Medicine Menu Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Narrative Medicine < See all Certificates and CPAs Narrative medicine proposes that the goals of health care include social justice, recognition of the whole persons who care and are cared for, and the development of trust and self-discovery within committed clinical relationships. The non-degree Narrative Medicine Certification of Professional Achievement program fulfills these objectives by educating a leadership corps of health professionals, writers, and scholars who seek to imbue patient care and professional education with the skills and values of narrative understanding. This program is developed specifically for students who seek ways to bring narrative methods into their clinical or teaching practices. This program introduces students to the principles and practice of narrative medicine through rigorous courses leading to intellectual growth, interpersonal relationships, and personal insight. Students will practice designing and evaluating narrative training interventions in clinical settings. Curriculum Students in the Narrative Medicine Certification program complete five online courses and attend one workshop in-person or virtually. Students may take courses in three consecutive terms or in as much time as three years. Each online course will begin at the traditional start of the fall, spring, and summer terms, and run for 10 weeks. The program is part-time and online. The courses are asynchronous, with no required weekly meeting time, giving students the flexibility of accessing course materials, lectures, and assignments within a specific weekly timeframe to accommodate their schedules. To receive the certification, students must complete the five 3-credit courses (for a total of 15 credits) and the non-credit workshop. Students who successfully complete the program and who are admitted to the Master of Science program in Narrative Medicine. may count their certification toward 6 credits of elective coursework. Sample Course Schedule Summer Narrative Ethics. 3 pts. Fall Narrative Medicine Methods: Close Reading and Writing. 3 pts. Social Justice: Narratives of Inequality. 3 pts. Writing Creatively: Craft Lab and Workshop. 3 pts. Spring Pedagogy: Goals, Methods, Contexts. 3 pts. Qualitative Evaluation Methods for Narrative Medicine Practice. 3 pts. In-person workshop. 0 pts. How to Apply To apply, follow the Summer Sessions application instructions for your admissions category: To start an application, please click here and select Master's Affiliated CPA Programs as the program type. . Contact the Department General Information, Admissions Questions, and Advising 212-854-9666 narrativemedicine [at] sps.columbia.edu 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy