Skip to Main Content Brown University Summer Session Search Menu Site Navigation Home Search Summer Session Summer Session at Brown Summer Session at Brown Open to Brown undergraduates, visiting and guest students. Brown University Summer Session features small classes in a variety of fields, from anthropology to visual arts in seven-week intensive courses that offer students the opportunity to extend their undergraduate study into the summer term, allowing them to focus on a single subject area, take courses that are typically full during the rest of the academic year, catch up on progress to a degree, improve academic standing, or explore new subjects of interest. Excellent teachers from Brown's instructional staff and a few selected instructors from other institutions comprise the faculty of the Summer Session. All faculty members hold office hours regularly to assist students with their individual studies and projects. The typically small size of classes in Summer Session allow for dynamic discussions, friendly student support, and plenty of time with your instructor and peers. Dates for Summer Session: June 20, 2022 – August 5, 2022 Summer Session Course Registration for Currently Enrolled Brown Undergraduates Only: Pre-registration: Monday, April 4, 2022 – Thursday, April 14, 2022 (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Registration: Wednesday, April 27, 2022 – Wednesday, June 22, 2022 For questions not addressed on this page, please contact summersession@brown.edu. For Students Eligibility to Enroll in Summer Session Courses Summer Session is open to the following populations: Current Brown and Brown-RISD Dual Degree undergraduate students Visiting Students who are currently earning their bachelor’s degree at another institution and are accepted through application with the Office of College Admissions. More information can be found here. Guest Students who have already earned their bachelor’s degree and are accepted through the application with the Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Programs. More information can be found here. Course Information Summer Session courses are equivalent to semester-long offerings, compressed into a fast-paced seven week-long summer schedule. Courses are offered both on-campus and online. Course meeting times range depending on the learning objectives, there may be an additional laboratory or discussion sessions for courses. Summer Session class size is small, which allows for a high level of interaction and engagement with the instructor and peers throughout the seven-weeks. Advising and Registration Why Take a Summer Session Course? Learn in a highly focused environment that allows for immersion in a specific topic Take an innovative course not available during the fall or spring semester Spread out coursework throughout the year or earn the additional credit Have more time and flexibility for an internship or research during the academic year Enrollment and Credit Summer Session courses may count towards a concentration or elective. Students will earn one unit of credit, equivalent to four semester hours. Registration Students may view and register for courses using the Courses@Brown site. Note: Courses may be canceled if they do not meet the minimum number of students required. Active courses will be confirmed in early June after the initial registration period. Grading Unless otherwise indicated in the course description, Summer Session courses default to the ABC/NC grading scale. Students may change their grade option before Monday, June 27, 2022. Grade options cannot be changed after this date. Dropping a Summer Session Course The last day to add or drop a course is Wednesday, June 22, 2022. All students must be registered for courses by this date. Summer Session Course Refunds Students who withdraw on or before June 19 will receive a 100% refund. Students who withdraw between 6/20 and 6/23 will receive an 80% refund. Students who withdraw between 6/24 and 6/28 will receive a 50% refund. Students who withdraw after 6/28 will not be eligible for any refund. Summer Session Meals and Housing Refunds Students who drop their meal plan and/or housing during the first week of the session (June 20 – June 25) will receive a standard refund of $970 for meals and/or $1,200 for housing. No refunds for meals or housing will be given after June 25. Additional Summer Session Refund Notes All program-related costs not billed by Brown University are non-refundable. (i.e. travel, books etc.) For Pre-Baccalaureate students: Application fees and program deposits are non-refundable. Enrollment Fees are non-refundable. FAQs Summer Session Frequently Asked Questions Question: Who is eligible to enroll in a summer session undergraduate course? A: Brown undergraduates, visiting and guest students accepted to the university. Current Brown Doctoral Students may be eligible to enroll in Summer Session courses, pending instructor permission and Graduate School approval. Doctoral students who are approved to enroll in a Summer Session course will be responsible for paying tuition independently for that course. Master's students are not eligible to enroll in Winter Session courses. Please direct questions to Vanessa Ryan, Associate Dean of the Graduate School. Eligible Brown staff who wish to take an undergraduate, advanced degree or work-related course should apply to the Employee Education Program (EEP) coordinated through the Benefits Office. Employees who wish to take Brown courses as degree candidates or who wish to take courses at an institution other than Brown should review the EEP FAQs to learn about applicable guidelines of the Employee Education Program and how to apply. If there are additional questions contact Christina_Bernier@brown.edu in the Benefits Office. Q: Can I enroll in a Brown Summer Session course if I have already taken four Brown courses in previous Winter and Summer Sessions? A: Students may count up to four Brown courses taken outside of the academic year (i.e., Summer and/or Winter Session) towards their degree completion. If you have already completed four courses, you may enroll in Summer Session courses for enrichment; however, the Summer Session course will not count towards the thirty courses you need to graduate. Q: How many courses may I take during Summer Session? A: Due to the intensive nature of these courses, students may enroll in a maximum of two courses per Summer Session. Q: Will any academic support services be available during the Summer Session? A: There may be some support available during Summer Session but it is limited. If you would like more information about academic coaching, please visit the Academic Support Services website and contact academicsupport@brown.edu with specific questions. Q: Is it possible to study off-campus during the Summer Session and transfer the credits? A: Yes, if needed to complete degree requirements. If you are interested in off-campus study, always talk to a transfer dean to start planning. More information can be found at Brown's Study Away and Transfer Credit website. Specific questions can be sent to graduationplans@brown.edu. Q: Is it possible to study at RISD Summer Session and transfer the credits? A: Summer Session is not included in the Brown-RISD cross-registration agreement. Brown students interested in RISD summer courses need to follow the transfer credit rules and procedures. RISD students interested in cross-registering in Brown University courses should visit the RISD Registrar webpage for detailed instructions on the process. Useful Links Academic Calendar Student Financial Information Financial Aid Information For Faculty Benefits of Teaching in Summer Session Brown's Summer Session, a seven-week session, offered to Brown undergraduates, guest students and accelerated high school students both in-person and online, is an exciting opportunity for instructors who are looking to work with talented students and experiment with new material and pedagogies. Summer Session extends the undergraduate curriculum into the summer months, offering a wide range of courses from across the disciplines, from those that are in regular high-demand or are prerequisites for further study to those that are uniquely attractive to students. All courses offered must be currently approved courses or be submitted via the course proposal portal and approved by College Curriculum Committee as well as by the offering department. The seven-week session provides students an intensive learning experience, enabling them to achieve a degree of focus that is for many a challenge during the fall and spring semesters. Since students have chosen their classes freely and are typically taking only one course or no more than two over the summer, they have time to focus on a limited set of objectives. Indeed, students regularly report that the compressed session, the small class size, the availability of the instructors, and the absence of distraction during the Summer Session significantly facilitates their learning. The engagement of students, the compressed session, and the (relative) freedom from distraction also provides faculty an opportunity to experiment with new course content and to experiment with teaching a new course. In addition to serving Brown undergraduates, the Summer Session is open to qualified undergraduates enrolled at other institutions and to rising high school seniors. The instructional staff of Summer Sessions consists primarily of Brown faculty, supplemented by visiting faculty and graduate students. Propose a Course Connect with your Department Chair, to secure approval to teach during the summer undergraduate session. Submit the Summer Session 2022 Proposal form. SUBMIT PROPOSAL The deadline for course proposals is November 29, 2021. Program Director: Carrie Nordlund Academic Program Support: Lisa Vidal /Claudeline Chery Instructor Important Dates Date Event November 29, 2021 Summer Session course proposals due End of January/beginning of February 2022 Notification of course approval sent to instructors After course has been approved Faculty upload course information to Banner Mid-February 2022 Student registration begins Early to mid-May 2022 Faculty notified of student enrollment Monday, June 20, 2022 Summer Session begins. The Juneteenth Holiday observed according to University regulations Tuesday, June 21, 2022 Summer Session classes begin Monday July 4, 2022 Fourth of July Holiday observed according to University regulations Friday, July, 29, 2022 Last Day of Classes Friday, August 5, 2022 Summer Session ends Friday, August 12, 2022 Final grades due Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Summer Session at Brown Open details for Summer Session at Brown Bookmark this Page