Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords For Faculty You are here Home / Faculty / For Faculty Welcome to Summer 2022 Below you will find most of the resources you will need as an instructor for Yale Summer Session. Chief among these resources is our Summer Faculty Handbook. You will also find information on the course selection process, course proposals, salaries, necessary HR forms, requesting classrooms, ordering books, and much more. All necessary forms are also listed at the bottom of this page. 2021 Summer Faculty Orientation TOC: Courses Selecting courses for summer happens in the fall semester and is handled jointly by Yale Summer Session and the home department for each individual course. The process is detailed in this document. Courses that have never been taught in the summer must also go through the Course of Study Committee (CSC). Faculty applying to teach a course that must go through CSC will be contacted with instructions on when to submit a proposal. Salary/HR Forms Salaries are determined by the Provost of the University. All Yale affiliated instructors must also fill out a Faculty Salary Confirmation Form to ensure effort reporting. Graduate Students must fill out a Graduate Student Confirmation Form. Instructors new to Yale must fill out the appropriate tax forms including an I-9, W4 Federal and W4 Connecticut. The I-9 must be completed at the Employee Service Center at 221 Whitney Avenue in person with the appropriate ID(s). Others may wish to change their withholdings as the additional summer salary may alter their overall tax liability. Instructors may also sign up for direct deposit. Instructors should note that the first check may not be processed in time to be deposited directly and therefore a paper check may be produced. Most tax forms (Federal and CT W4s, and direct deposit forms) should be completed through Workday. The I-9 must first be completed electronically through Workday. Then instructors must visit the Employee Services Center at 221 Whitney Avenue with proper ID to complete the process before their first day of class. Classrooms Classrooms may be requested by filling out the classroom request form. It is important to request the appropriate A/V needs as well. If your classroom has a problem, such as air conditioning, broken equipment, broken lighting, etc., please notify Facilities (203-432-6888) for maintenance. If you need help with computers or video equipment please call Classroom Support (203-432-2650). It is often difficult to reassign space during the summer as there are many groups using campus besides Summer Session. Please do not move your class or change your class times, even if students agree to the change. Changing rooms once the summer has begun can be difficult if not impossible. Books For those instructors who need to order books through the Yale Bookstore, they may do so on the Adoption and Insights website. The Yale bookstore uses this site for all textbook orders. If you have any questions, please contact the bookstore directly at (203) 777-8440 or tm321@bncollege.com. The bookstore requests that orders be made by April 1st (especially for Session A courses). Field Trips Note:For the Summer 2021, we ask that you not require, or even encourage, any course related activities (i.e. field trips) that cannot be completed where the student resides. Academic field trips can be an important—and enjoyable—element of education. They often significantly enhance the content of a course by providing a type of information hard to convey in the classroom. We define an academic field trip as a course-related activity that serves educational purposes and occurs outside of the classroom at a location other than on the campus at which the course is regularly taught. Academic field trips are, by definition, university-sponsored events and must conform to specific guidelines as outlined in the Yale College policy on field trips here. Instructors must accompany their students to and from the field trip site and must also fill out the YSS Field Trip Form and return it to the YSS office three business days prior to the date of the field trip. Photocopying Photocopying course materials should be done at DOCUPRINT AND IMAGING, 27 Whitney Avenue (203-776-6000) where Summer Session has an account. It is important to give your name and course title when you have work done to insure that invoices are referenced and billed properly. If you must do last minute photocopying and cannot do so at your department or at Docuprint, please be sure to keep your receipt(s) in order for Summer Session to reimburse you. It is preferable, however, to have your copying done at Docuprint or your department. Please keep in mind that if you are copying several articles and/or chapters you should make a course packet for purchase by the students. Gym Membership All summer instructors are entitled to a free gym membership for the duration of the ten-week session. Optional locker and towel service must be purchased separately. If you would like to utilize the Payne Whitney Gym during the Summer Session, please follow the instructions below. All instructors need to register at Payne Whitney Gym before they can use it. For membership hours, the office is open Tuesday through Friday 10am to 2pm/3:30pm to 5:30pm (closed 2pm to 3:30pm) and Saturdays 10:30am to 1pm. When you arrive at the PWG, please ask for the membership office directly. The Welcome Desk Staff will point you in the right direction. We highly recommend that you book an appointment during the summer to process a membership. To schedule an appointment please use this link: Yale PWG Membership Service Office (office365.com) Dining Hall Card Instructors teaching a course or a portion of a course in New Haven provided with ten meals which may be used at a Residential College Dining Hall. Breakfast 7:30am-10:30am, Lunch 11:30am-2:00pm, Dinner 5pm-7:30pm Berkeley Dining Hall will be open for the entire summer session. Trumbull Dining Hall will open on 6/19. Canvas Yale Summer Session's Online Teaching Platform Course space for individual Summer Session courses will be automatically created on the Canvas server around mid-April. Please go to http://canvas.yale.edu and log in with your Yale NetID and password to access your page. Please email canvas@yale.edu with questions. Syllabi Submission Every course should have its syllabus available at Summer Session. New courses absolutely need to submit a syllabus specifically for the summer to demonstrate how the regular semester course will fit into the short time span of the summer. All syllabi should be submitted to the Summer Session office in electronic format, no later March 15th to yss.academicaffairs@yale.edu. We also like to provide the syllabus online, so that prospective students get a better idea of what sort of workload the course might require. Advertising Courses It is important to consider advertising your course because courses will be canceled if they do not meet the minimum enrollment numbers. We encourage all faculty to advertise for their own individual courses in any way that seems appropriate. Flyers around campus, emails, and other inexpensive ways to get the word out are all important ways of contributing to good enrollments. If you have ideas, please let us know! You may also want to consult with your home department with respect to the most effective method of communicating to students. Forms Summer Faculty Handbook YSS Course Selection Process Summer Salaries and Salary Confirmation Form Graduate Student Confirmation Form Graduate Student Summer Assistant/Grader Confirmation Form Yale Summer Session Field Trip Form Instructors End-of-Term Report For Faculty Teaching a YSS Program Abroad Click here to be redirected to the Faculty Toolkit for programs taught abroad. Have a question? Please contact the Academic Affairs team: Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in