Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers International Students International Students Menu Overview Visa and Registration Requirements Request Information Request Information International Students Founded in 1900, the Summer Sessions at Columbia University are one of the longest-running summer programs in the country, with courses taught by the world-renowned faculty of New York City's only Ivy League institution. A wide range of undergraduate-level and graduate-level courses, certificates, and programs in over 50 areas of study are available for domestic and international students, both on campus and online. Our academic advisors will help you select or customize a program that meets your academic and professional goals. A gateway to new experiences. World-class Ivy League education. Classes are held on Columbia’s beautiful campus in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of Manhattan and online. As a student on campus you will gain access to all campus facilities, including one of the largest academic library systems in the country, computer labs, the gym and fitness center, as well as numerous nearby cafés and lounges. “You are in the middle of New York City, but when you are on campus, it feels like another place. It feels like home instantly.” Catarina Guimarães de Mello, Columbia student from Brazil New York City welcomes students from around the globe to explore arts and culture, attend opera at the Met, see a Broadway theater production, visit world-class museums, walk through Central Park, and explore the historic neighborhoods. The city’s safe, reliable public transportation systems make all that the city has to offer convenient and accessible. Eligibility Requirement Students who are not United States citizens or permanent residents must be a full-time student at Columbia—registered for at least 6 points of credit-bearing courses in a 6-week session or 12 points of credit-bearing courses in the entire 12-week summer period—in order to be eligible for a student (F-1) visa. Please visit the ISSO website for detailed visa instructions. Know Your Student Category Columbia Students Students enrolled at a Columbia University school. See Details > Visiting Students Undergraduates or graduates at another institution. See Details > Adult & Professionals Individuals with a bachelor’s degree or higher degree. See Details > Your Summer Options Courses Build a program that meets your goals from hundreds of courses offered during Summer. Learn more > Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Choose from curricula designed to prepare and focus students’ study and experience. Learn more > 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy