Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop YYWW Faculty Bios Writing Workshops YYWW Agenda FAQs Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Yale Young Writers' Workshop You are here Home / Courses & Programs / Yale Young Writers' Workshop / Yale Young Writers' Workshop The application for Summer 2022 is closed. We will open the application for Summer 2023 in January 2023. About the Yale Young Writers' Workshop Virtual High School Program: July 10 - 15, 2022 Yale is excited to offer a one-week online summer writing workshop for 16 - 18 year old rising high school sophomores, juniors, and seniors. We’re seeking bookish wordsmiths interested in adding to their writerly toolbox, writers who will generate and share their work in an intimate, non-competitive, online community. Writers chose from one of four genres: fiction, nonfiction, poetry or graphic storytelling. We have capped the workshops at 12 writers per genre to ensure all voice are heard. Participants attend talks on the craft of writing, genre workshops, open mics, faculty and visiting author readings, student readings, and learn about careers in writing. Each day starts with a craft talk from a visiting writer followed by small group workshop for three hours in the afternoon. The craft talks expose writers to genres outside of their own. The workshop is a safe creative space to experiment, play, and develop narrative tools, and new work over the course of the week. Students will generate new material and then read it back to the group for feedback with an eye for revision. Participants will read one assigned book from a visiting writer prior to the start of the workshop. This will create a shared literature to study during the week, and allow students to investigate writing strategies from published work, and then have the opportunity to ask said writer about their creative process. Our faculty are gifted teachers and published writers. They will meet writers where they are but also prepare them with skills to write their next story, essay, graphic story, or poem. With few exceptions, our faculty will be the closest readers you’ve ever had. They will challenge you to produce their best work. And they’ll harness the creative power unique to the writing workshop. Before You Begin the Program: Your instructor will assign a short exercise for you to complete before the first workshop. You’ll be assigned one book to read by a visiting writer. The writer will present and then visit with your genre group Start writing now in your journal. Activate your muse in preparation your visit to Yale. Dates: Application Opens: February 15, 2022 Application Deadline: April 4, 2022 Decisions Released: April 15, 2022 Payment Due (to secure your spot): April 22, 2022 Cost: $850 Eligibility: Applicants must be between 16 - 18 years old and a rising high school sophomore, junior, or senior. Admission Process: This is a link to a sample application. Please review it before starting to make sure you have all the necessary items at hand. Click here to apply. A writing sample is required. It needs to accompany your application for admission, and must be uploaded electronically. Submit your writing sample as a Word document: 500 words, double-spaced in times roman, 12 point font, one-inch margins. Each page must include your name. Note genre of the submission: Fiction, Non-fiction, Poetry or Graphic Forms. Transcript 2 Letters of Recommendation (Please submit here) Refund Policy: We will refund 75% for cancellation requests received by April 29, 2022, and 50% for cancelation requests received by May 6, 2022. We will be unable to honor refund requests received after May 6, 2022. Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop YYWW Faculty Bios Writing Workshops YYWW Agenda FAQs Programs Abroad Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in