Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Home / Apply Apply Our application for Summer 2022 is officially open! Please follow the links below to apply as either a student or parent and check the status of your application in the student and parent portals. For any questions, email us or call us at (504) 314-7619. Subscribe to receive updates about available courses and residential and online experiences. Apply Now Apply as a Student Student and Parent Portals Student Portal Parent Portal Deferred Summer 2021 Students Students who chose to defer admission from their Summer 2021 courses received an email with details about the reselection of session dates and course for Summer 2022 courses on December 3, 2021. For questions about your deferred student application, please email us at summer@tulane.edu or call us at (504) 314-7619. Application Deadlines We are still admitting students on a rolling basis. Please check our courses page for the most up to date info on course availability. Priority Application Deadline February 18, 2022 International Student Deadline March 18, 2022 Regular Application Deadline April 15, 2022 Extended Application Deadline April 29, 2022 How to Apply Choose your Experience What do you want to study? Do you want to earn credit? Live on campus? Learn online? Browse Courses Want to dive deep into your favorite topic? Or, explore a brand new subject? Start Your Application Apply now to have your best summer ever! Experience a Summer of Possibilities Live and learn at a top-ranked university alongside talented students from around the globe in one of the most diverse and unique cities in the world! Application Tips Apply by the Priority Application Deadline to ensure a spot in your selected course Check on your application status via the student portal and parent portal Check your email regularly for updates and admission decisions If you need login information sent to another email address, email summer@tulane.edu Admission and Enrollment An online application is required for all pre-college programs. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis through the extended deadline of April 29, 2022 or until programs have reached full capacity. Prospective pre-college students are encouraged to apply early to ensure space in their selected course(s). Admission to Tulane Pre-College is open to all individuals regardless of their immigration status. Individuals with DACA status and other non-citizens are welcome to apply to Tulane Pre-College summer programs. For more information, visit tulane.edu/undocumented. Notifications Admissions decisions will be posted to the student portal and parent portal. You will receive an email notification when your admissions decision is available. Once admitted, you'll need to submit a 10% deposit within 14 days of receiving your admission notification to secure your enrollment. The amount of your deposit will also be indicated in the student portal and parent portal. Payments Financial accounts will be settled through the student portal or parent portal. Full payment of program costs for all students must be received by the published deadline in the student and parent portals for enrollment in any of our pre-college summer programs. Cancellations Should a course be canceled due to low enrollment numbers or other conditions, a notification will be provided as early as possible and students will be offered another program option or a refund. If you have questions about the application or the admissions process, contact the Pre-College office at summer@tulane.edu or (504) 314-7619. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University