Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Dates and Tuition Application Deadlines Our application for Summer 2022 is now open! Subscribe for updates and receive all the latest info for next summer. Application Deadline Priority Application February 18, 2022 International Students March 18, 2022 Regular Application April 15, 2022 Extended Application April 29, 2022 Course Dates Tulane Pre-College offers both noncredit, enrichment courses and college credit courses in the summer for middle and high school students. For summer 2022, Tulane Pre-College will be offering in-person and online courses. For more information on our online courses, please see our online course sessions page and list of available courses. Day Enrichment Courses Middle and high school only One-week sessions Weekly sessions start June 13, last session begins on July 25, 2022 Day College Credit Courses Rising high school juniors and seniors 3 sessions: June 21 - July 1, July 5-15, and July 18-29, 2022 Residential Enrichment Courses High school Two-week sessions: students take 2 one-week courses 3 sessions: June 20 - July 2, July 4-16, and July 17-30, 2022 Residential College Credit Courses Rising high school juniors and seniors Two-week sessions 3 sessions: June 20 - July 2, July 4-16, and July 17-30, 2022 Online Enrichment Courses High school only Two-week sessions 3 sessions: June 21 - July 1, July 5-15, and July 18-29, 2022 Online College Credit Courses Rising high school juniors and seniors Career Explorations in Architecture Two-week sessions 2 sessions: July 5-15 and July 18-29, 2022 Tulane Science Scholars Program Three-week sessions 2 sessions: July 5-22 and July 11-29, 2022 Tuition for Summer 2022 The below costs reflect course and experience pricing for Summer 2022. Session Tuition Enrichment Day (1 week) $695 Enrichment Residential (2 weeks) $3,595 Enrichment Online (2 weeks) $495 College Credit Day (2 weeks) $1,995 College Credit Residential (2 weeks) $4,495 College Credit Online (per course) $2,095 Payments A 10% non-refundable deposit is due within two weeks of acceptance to a pre-college summer program to reserve a space in the program. All remaining tuition and fees must be paid in full before June 1st. Financial accounts will be settled through your student or parent portal. Partial payments can be made prior to the June 1st deadline. For questions on how to pay your balance or how to access your student or parent portal, please contact our office at summer@tulane.edu. Tuition Refund Policies Refund rates and withdrawal policies may vary by program. Please review the policies for the program(s) to which you plan to apply. A 10% non-refundable deposit is due within two weeks of acceptance to a pre-college summer program. Financial accounts will be settled through the student and parent portals. Partial payments can be made prior to June 1st. All program changes must be made at least 14 days prior to the program start date. Students may not change courses once the session begins. Enrichment Program Withdrawals If a student wishes to cancel their program attendance and registration, they must notify Tulane University Pre-College Programs in writing by email to summer@tulane.edu. The 10% deposit is non-refundable, but the remaining program fee will be refunded if a student chooses to cancel their attendance prior to June 1, 2021. No refunds will be given after June 1, 2021. All students registered for a course must be in attendance on or before the second day of class. Otherwise, registration will be canceled. Withdrawals from Credit Courses A student may withdraw only with permission and approval from the Program Director. The effective date of withdrawal is the date official written notification is received by Tulane University Pre-College Programs. The tuition refund schedule applies to all students regardless of the date of application or the circumstances of the cancellation. Cancellation Policy Tulane University Pre-College Programs reserves the right to change or cancel any program if conditions warrant. Notification will be provided as early as possible should this be necessary. Should a program be canceled due to low enrollment numbers, other program options will be offered, or refunds will be processed. For participants who want to add sessions, we cannot guarantee availability. All participants are enrolled on a first-come, first-served basis. Tulane University reserves the right to dismiss any participant, without reimbursement of payment, who is unable to adhere to the Tulane Pre-College Code of Student Conduct or is disruptive in any other way. Understanding that pre-college participants are minors, the University employs specific rules and expectations to promote a safe and productive learning environment. Tulane may, in its sole discretion, require any participant who has violated the University’s policies to leave the program at the participant’s expense. All parents and participants are encouraged to read carefully the Tulane Pre-College Code of Student Conduct agreement included in the enrollment paperwork and in the handbook. Financial Aid Tulane University Pre-College programs work to support motivated students with demonstrated financial need. Limited aid is available and is awarded to families in need of assistance. The Financial Aid Committee, which operates independently of Tulane University’s Financial Aid office, awards scholarships as generously and equitably as possible; however, funding for financial aid is limited and the demand is great. In determining need, the committee considers a number of variables, including family finances, family size, and geographic differences in the cost of living. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so it is to your advantage to apply as early as possible. We cannot guarantee that all eligible applicants will receive aid. In most cases, financial aid does not cover all expenses; students must contribute to the cost of attending a program and are encouraged to seek other sources of funding. The aid a student may receive is nontransferable between programs and can only be used for the requested session. Please note that financial aid for international students is only available for credit-bearing courses, and online enrichment financial aid is only available for Louisiana residents. To be considered for financial assistance, you will need to complete and submit your Pre-College Summer Program Application via your student or parent portal. Contact Tulane Pre-College for more information. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University