Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Day Session Tulane Pre-College offers day sessions to students who live in the New Orleans area and to those who wish to commute. As a Tulane Pre-College day student, you’ll have access to the same academic programming as the residential students, including class field excursions, lunch-n-learns, and student exhibitions. Pre-college weekend and evening activities are only open to residential students at this time. Some college credit courses offer study sessions and academic opportunities outside of class meeting times that are open to day students. To see a full list of our course options, please click here. Enrichment Day Sessions Enrichment day courses are offered in one-week sessions. Classes meet Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Students may arrive as early as 8:00 a.m. and must depart campus by 4:15 p.m. Different courses are offered each week, and students can enroll in more than one session. Pre-college enrichment courses typically do not require students to complete additional work outside of class. This allows middle and high school students to experience studying and learning on a college campus while exploring academic subjects without the pressure of exams and grades. Meals are provided daily to students enrolled in enrichment courses and are included in the program cost. College Credit Day Sessions Our two-week college credit classes are designed to mirror a typical undergraduate experience as much as possible while still providing appropriate supervision. Classes meet Monday through Friday for two weeks. The daily schedule varies depending on the course or program you select, but students can expect to attend classes in the morning and afternoon. Different courses are offered in each session, and students can enroll in both sessions. Most college credit courses have assignments outside of class. The amount of daily homework varies among courses and may take up to several hours per day, but previous pre-college students have found these assignments manageable and rewarding. Meals are not included with tuition, but places to eat on campus are plentiful, or you may bring your lunch. Arriving and Departing Campus Transportation to and from Tulane's campus for day sessions is not provided. Drop-Off and Pick-Up Enrichment day student drop off runs from 8:00 a.m.-8:45 a.m. daily. Classes begin at 9:00 a.m. Enrichment day student pick up is from 4:00 p.m.-4:15 p.m. Before and after care for enrichment day students is not offered. Tulane Pre-College operates a daily carpool line for enrichment drop-off and pick-up. Day students who wish to sign themselves out at the end of the day may do so with the appropriate authorization on file in their enrollment documents. College credit day students are required to check in and check out of their program at the start and end of each day. Check-in is from 8:45 a.m.-9:00 a.m. daily. Check-out is from 3:30 p.m.-3:45 p.m. daily for the Tulane Science Scholars Program and from 4:45 p.m.-5:00 p.m. for the Career Explorations in Architecture program. Parking Day students who choose to drive to campus may purchase a visitor parking permit online at https://parking.tulane.edu or in the Customer Engagement Office in the Lavin-Bernick Center from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Students should purchase their parking passes before their classes start. More Information If you would like to change your enrollment status from Day to Residential, please contact the Tulane Pre-College office at summer@tulane.edu or (504) 314-7619. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University