Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Online Courses Tulane Pre-College Programs features two-and-three week online summer courses for academically talented and intellectually curious rising 9th - 12th grade students. We invite high school students from around the world to discover, study, and explore through our engaging online learning platform. Online pre-college program courses give you the flexibility to learn using a hybrid model of coursework that is both synchronous (class time spent online with other students and instructors) and asynchronous (self-paced assignments done individually). This structure gives you ample time to complete your coursework and connect with your instructor between synchronous sessions. As an online pre-college student, you will enjoy a one-of-a-kind learning experience that offers a myriad of opportunities to engage, grow, and succeed. Best of all, you will benefit from our support, resources, and the relationships you forge — not only this summer but far into your educational future. What to Expect Online access to a proven curriculum and distinguished instructors Live, synchronous class sessions with a mix of group work, discussion, and lectures Asynchronous, independent work for students to complete on their own Scheduled time slots for both live group sessions and individual work sessions Participation and collaboration tools that allow asynchronous video, audio, and text commenting 2022 Dates and Tuition Sessions run for two and three weeks, with courses meeting Monday–Friday. Please note that students may only attend one course during each session. See our courses for Summer 2022. Virtual Co-Curricular Sessions Tulane Pre-College offers online co-curricular programming to complement our academic courses. While students are simultaneously learning the subject matter in their courses, the co-curricular programming provides a unique, Tulane learning experience centered in getting to know other pre-college students, doing group activities that help students learn more about themselves and other communities, and learning more about Tulane University itself, such as details of campus life, Tulane culture, and the values that our university lives by. Attending co-curricular activities is optional but highly encouraged. Co-curricular programming sessions take place during the week for length of your course and are driven by our virtual summer program counselors. Our counselors, all current Tulane students, are available to you as a resource to create community and navigate your virtual learning experience. Students and counselors currently meet through Zoom sessions in small groups. Small groups allow students and counselors to easily interact with one another and help enhance the co-curricular virtual experience. The Tulane Pre-College virtual community includes all of the programming and resources of our residential programs in an online format including: Orientation materials Academic support and advising Connections with other pre-college students Wellness resources Online Course FAQ What does a typical day look like for an online course? The typical day varies from course to course, but all courses have a mixture of synchronous and asynchronous content. Students will usually have asynchronous work that they complete in the morning and then attend a synchronous session to discuss what they have been learning about and working on in their course. Instructors also provide office hours to check in with students and to answer any questions that they may have. Tulane Pre-College offers co-curricular programming outside of the academic course to provide a well-rounded pre-collegiate experience. When do synchronous sessions meet? Students must be available to sign into and virtually attend the course online sometime between 10:00 am and 3:00 pm CDT (noted as the course meeting times - all times listed are local to New Orleans). Depending on the course, synchronous sessions may be daily or 2-3 times a week. Enrichment course synchronous sessions are usually 60-90 minutes long, and credit-bearing course synchronous sessions are usually 90-150 minutes long. The exact schedule of synchronous sessions will be available closer to the start of courses. What asynchronous work is planned? Asynchronous work varies by content area and course. Students can anticipate spending their asynchronous time engaging in discussion boards, watching videos, reading articles, completing design and lab assignments, writing papers, and more. How should students use asynchronous time? Developing study habits is very helpful for online course work. It’s also a great way to practice for future college courses. We suggest that students structure their time to make sure they complete any assignments prior to synchronous sessions (work done with other students and instructors). We also suggest that students schedule breaks for themselves - even if it's just five minutes at a time. Are all online courses the same length of time and the same cost? All of our online, enrichment courses are two weeks and cost $495. Our online, credit-bearing courses are either two or three weeks in length and cost $2,095. Will there be social activities available? Tulane Pre-College offers online co-curricular (non-academic) programming to complement our academic courses. Students are assigned to a “krewe” (a nod to New Orleans Mardi Gras culture) led by current Tulane undergraduates. The co-curricular programming provides students with opportunities to develop relationships with peers outside of their class, learn more about Tulane, explore the college admissions process, and more. Online Classroom Technology Requirements Computer Participants will need to have daily access to a computer that has Windows or Apple as the operating system and is capable of running the latest versions of internet browsers, plug-ins, and software. Internet Connection Participants will need to be connected to high-speed internet that will support interactive audio and video. Webcam Participants should have a webcam to support daily participation in class. Microphone If you are using a laptop with a built-in microphone, we recommend that you use headphones during live class sessions to avoid echo or feedback. If possible, we suggest that you use a USB-based headset with a microphone for clear audio when participating in class. Quiet Learning Environment Do your best to choose a comfortable, distraction-free learning space for the live class meeting times. Keep in mind that the setting should be appropriate for interacting with instructors and fellow students on camera. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University