Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Sessions | Courses | Journalism and Media Studies Back to Subject Areas Contact Information Admissions/Advising 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu https://sps.columbia.edu/admissions/visiting-students/contact Journalism and Media Studies In partnership with the Columbia School of Journalism, these dynamic undergraduate level courses focus on both the theory behind and the practice of quality journalism. Course work will include coverage of best reporting practices, including ethics, sourcing, and interview technique, as well as discussion of story structure and audience engagement, differentiated by medium. Check the Directory of Classes for the most up-to-date course information. Summer 2022 Session Information SESSION A (First Half Term) courses are May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B (Second Half Term) courses are July 5–August 12, 2022 SESSION X (Full Term) courses are May 23–August 12, 2022 Courses Select Method of Instruction In-Person Select Session Session A Expand All INTRO TO VIDEO STORYTELLING JOUR3016S001 3 points. The Introduction to Video Storytelling course teaches students the basics of conceiving, researching, and reporting a story through video. Students will learn to think critically about what makes for a good video story--what makes it newsworthy, what makes video the proper medium for conveying that story--and how to execute using the latest technology. Students will learn how to use and handle a camera, how to best record sound, how to properly frame and light a subject or scene, as well as learn how to use Adobe Premiere editing software. Students will have one complete video story at the end of the 6-week course. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location JOUR3016S001 001/10087 Session A Mo 05:30 PM–08:40 PM We 05:30 PM–08:40 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Zoeann Murphy 3 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person WAR REPORTING:THE COVERAGE OF JOUR3019S001 3 points. War Reporting: The Coverage of Armed Conflict explores the origins and roles of modern war reporting, examines the challenges journalists face, and discusses journalism's place in the public discourse of armed conflict and political violence, most notably terrorism. Taught by U.S. Marine corps veteran and Pulitzer Prize winning reporter and author, C.J. Chivers, class discussions will be lively and require student engagement. There will be guest lectures and seminars with leading journalists with experience in recent wars, as well discussions with security and legal professionals who assist and guide news organizations in their coverage of war. The examination of risks to journalists on conflict beats will include detailed case studies of real kidnappings and battlefield deaths, and study examples of risk mitigation and best practices in the field. The course is intended for students with a deep interest in war, terrorism and journalism, including both news consumers and aspiring practitioners. It aims to promote skepticism of official narratives and critical thinking about journalism itself. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location JOUR3019S001 001/10088 Session A Tu 09:00 AM–12:10 PM Th 09:00 AM–12:10 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Christopher Chivers 3 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person There were no courses found matching those criteria. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy