Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer Session 2022: Career Design Workshop Series June012022 06:00 p.m. 07:30 p.m. EST Online Event RSVP Back to Events Online Event Columbia Summer Session 2022: Career Design Workshop Series The Columbia University Summer Session is launching the Career Design Workshop in 2022, a new professional development opportunity that is exclusive to visiting students enrolled in the Summer program. Students receive robust and practical career coaching, from interview and resume writing, to advice on building your own personal brand, including social media guidance and time with a professional photographer for a polished LinkedIn headshot. One June 1, join Diane Spizzirro, Director of Career Design and Education at Columbia University's School of Professional Studies’ Career Design Lab, for a Career Design Workshop. The job market is hot—now is the time to build your career! To meet the needs of the current moment you need to be in the driver’s seat to steer your career success. Defining your path forward and formulating an executable plan is key. In this hands-on workshop, we will challenge participants to use design thinking tools to define the ingredients you need in the next stage of your career. Speakers Diane Spizzirro Diane Spizzirro Director, Career Education & Development, Career Design Lab, Columbia SPS 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy