Skip to Main Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Secondary Navigation Skip to Footer UCLA Summer Sessions COVID-19 Information × Why UCLA International Students Calendar FAQ Request Info Get Started Get Started UCLA and UC Students Current UCLA students or incoming and current UC students. Incoming UCLA Students Newly admitted UCLA students who are looking to get an early start. Visiting College Students Students attending a non-UC college or university in the U.S. or abroad. High School Students Students attending high school in the U.S. or abroad. Adults and Professionals Individuals who are looking to expand their knowledge or prepare for a career. Courses & Programs Courses Summer Courses 6-10 week courses that represent UCLA's academic breadth, offered fully in person or hybrid (in person/online). Earn credit in a subject perfect for your path. Summer Online Courses that are designed for online learning. Earn credit from wherever you are in the world. Summer Intensives Three-week courses offered in an accelerated format. Earn the same amount of credit in less time. Programs College/Professional Summer Institutes Innovative UCLA-credit programs with a career focus and professional development opportunities in business, architecture, film, and more. Summer College Immersion Program The UCLA undergraduate experience for high school students. Earn college credit and gain insight into college life. Precollege Summer Institutes Immersive and intensive UCLA-credit programs for advanced high school students in STEM, social science, creative arts and more. Explore Explore Academic Units Explore the UCLA academic units behind Summer Sessions' endless possibilities - courses and programs across every academic discipline. Student Services UCLA Quick Links Existing Registration MyUCLA UCLA Home Enrollment and Academics Review UCLA Summer Sessions enrollment and payment related procedures and policies, as well as academic policies. Campus Services and Resources Explore the campus services and resources available to you as a UCLA Summer Bruin. Rights and Responsibilities Know your rights and responsibilities as a UCLA Summer Bruin. Downloadable Forms Download frequently used forms for enrollment or I-20 requests. Fees & Financial Aid Registration Begin a New Registration Click here to begin registering for UCLA Summer Sessions. New Registration Access Your Existing Registration Click here to return to your in-progress or completed registration for UCLA Summer Sessions. Existing Registration Search for: Get Started Courses & Programs Student Services Fees & Financial Aid Registration Why UCLA International Students Calendar FAQ Request Info Get Started Get Started UCLA and UC Students Current UCLA students or incoming and current UC students. Incoming UCLA Students Newly admitted UCLA students who are looking to get an early start. Visiting College Students Students attending a non-UC college or university in the U.S. or abroad. High School Students Students attending high school in the U.S. or abroad. Adults and Professionals Individuals who are looking to expand their knowledge or prepare for a career. Courses & Programs Courses Summer Courses 6-10 week courses that represent UCLA's academic breadth, offered fully in person or hybrid (in person/online). Earn credit in a subject perfect for your path. Summer Online Courses that are designed for online learning. Earn credit from wherever you are in the world. Summer Intensives Three-week courses offered in an accelerated format. Earn the same amount of credit in less time. Programs College/Professional Summer Institutes Innovative UCLA-credit programs with a career focus and professional development opportunities in business, architecture, film, and more. Summer College Immersion Program The UCLA undergraduate experience for high school students. Earn college credit and gain insight into college life. Precollege Summer Institutes Immersive and intensive UCLA-credit programs for advanced high school students in STEM, social science, creative arts and more. Explore Explore Academic Units Explore the UCLA academic units behind Summer Sessions' endless possibilities - courses and programs across every academic discipline. Student Services UCLA Quick Links Existing Registration MyUCLA UCLA Home Enrollment and Academics Review UCLA Summer Sessions enrollment and payment related procedures and policies, as well as academic policies. Campus Services and Resources Explore the campus services and resources available to you as a UCLA Summer Bruin. Rights and Responsibilities Know your rights and responsibilities as a UCLA Summer Bruin. Downloadable Forms Download frequently used forms for enrollment or I-20 requests. Registration Begin a New Registration Click here to begin registering for UCLA Summer Sessions. New Registration Access Your Existing Registration Click here to return to your in-progress or completed registration for UCLA Summer Sessions. Existing Registration Search Search for: Experience the UCLA Advantage this Summer Explore Chart Your Academic Path Forward In each field, across all disciplines, and in every arena, greatness has become the UCLA hallmark. Choose from an astonishing breadth of academic opportunities that reflect UCLA’s extensive curriculum. Learn from expert instructors that represent UCLA’s academic rigor and excellence. Connect with the diverse UCLA academic community of faculty and students that share your scholarly interests. Courses Build your own unique UCLA summer experience. From online to accelerated courses, you will find endless possibilities. Summer Courses Summer Online Summer Intensives Search All Courses Programs Expand your horizons beyond academics through co-curricular enhancements. College / Professional Summer Institutes Precollege Summer Institutes Summer College Immersion Program Search All Programs 2022 Session Schedule Session Weeks Start Date End Date Session A3 3 Weeks 6/21/2022 7/8/2022 Session A6 6 Weeks 6/21/2022 7/29/2022 Session A8 8 Weeks 6/21/2022 8/12/2022 Session A10 10 Weeks 6/21/2022 8/26/2022 Session B3 3 Weeks 7/11/2022 7/29/2022 Session C3 3 Weeks 8/1/2022 8/19/2022 Session C6 6 Weeks 8/1/2022 9/9/2022 Session D3 3 Weeks 8/22/2022 9/9/2022 Spend Your Summer Earning UCLA Credit at a World-Renowned University #1 Public University in the US UCLA Summer Sessions provides students a transformative educational experience at a world-class university. 800+ Courses and Programs Offered No matter your academic goals and aspirations, UCLA has something for everyone. Thousands of Visiting Students UCLA has a long history of providing opportunities for students from around the globe. We build equity for all and take pride in the extraordinary diversity of our community. Stay Informed. Choose the topics you’re interested in and get periodic updates from UCLA Summer Sessions Stay Informed UCLA Access Existing Registration My UCLA Opportunities Abroad UCLA.EDU Questions? FAQ Request Info Contact Us ©2022 Regents of the University of California Terms of Use Accessibility Report Misconduct Summer Sessions Instagram