Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers FAQ Visiting Students Menu Overview Admissions Deadlines Application Requirements Policies International Students Contacts Tuition & Fees Student Life Campus Resources Admitted Students Registration Procedures Registered Students Housing FAQ Contact Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Summer Courses Below are some frequently asked questions about studying at Columbia in the summer. Expand All Are there online classes? Courses will note modality once decisions have been made. Where can I find a list of available courses? Courses open to Summer Visiting students can be found here. Students in the Arts in the Summer program can find available courses here. Does admission mean I have a spot in the class? No. Upon admittance into a summer sessions program, you must complete necessary Next Steps in order to register. Failure to complete the Next Steps (i.e. activate UNI, submit admissions verification documentation, etc.) will prevent students from adding courses to their schedule. How do I know if I need a visa? People admitted to study at Columbia University who are not United States citizens or permanent residents must be a full-time student at Columbia – registered for at least 6 points of credit-bearing courses in a 7-week session or 12 points of credit-bearing courses in the entire 14-week summer period – in order to be eligible for a student (F-1) visa. If I am already on a student visa, do I still have to meet the point requirements for international students? If you are on a student visa with another U.S. institution, you should check with that institution’s International Student Services Office to confirm the requirements. Are there non-credit options for classes? / Can I take a non-credit class to forgo the visa requirement? There are a few non-credit courses in the summer; however, the majority of classes are for-credit. Please review the course pages to check the course credits. Students on a Columbia sponsored visa cannot take a non-credit class to forgo the 6-point visa requirement. Can I audit summer classes? Auditing is not available in the summer. Please check the Fall/Spring auditing options here: sps.columbia.edu/auditing. Why won’t SSOL allow me to drop all my classes? (Admitted Students) In order to drop all of your classes, you must submit a Notice of Withdrawal Form. Once you submit this web-based form, it will automatically be routed to the SPS Student Affairs Office. What address do I send my transcripts to? (Admitted Students) Transcripts can be sent to: Office of Enrollment Management School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, Mail Code 4119 New York, NY 10027-6902 When and how can I view/pay my tuition bill? (Admitted Students) You can view your bill on SSOL under “View Most Recent Activity.” The Summer billing schedule dates can be found here. Please contact Student Financial Services with any questions: Phone: +1-212-854-4400 Email: sfs@columbia.edu How do I withdraw with a full tuition refund? (Admitted Students) Students can withdraw for a full tuition refund up until the last day of the Change of Program period. Following the Change of Program Period, the University will retain a certain percentage of tuition. Please review the comprehensive tuition refund schedule on the Summer Calendars page. Can I have some more clarity on the breakdown of fees? (Admitted Students) The breakdown of fees are described under the Tuition and Fees tab found on each Student Category page. Can credits be transferred to a degree program at another institution later? Only the other institution can determine if credits earned through the Visiting Program will transfer to the degree. This includes transferring credits into degree programs at Columbia University. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy