Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Contact Us About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Academic Support Resources Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Tulane Undergraduates Tulane Undergraduates Current Tulane students may register through Gibson Online beginning in priority registration in April. If you are interested in a summer course that has already filled, let us know here! Gibson Online Registration Instructions 1. Activate your Tulane Gibson online login and Tulane email account Gibson Online is Tulane’s online registration portal. Sign-in to Gibson and access class registration, grades, schedule of classes, tuition statements and myTulane seamlessly. Your Gibson user ID is also the first part of your Wavemail address (your Tulane email). New students will receive an email from Tulane Technology Services with their Splash number (Tulane student ID), instructions for setting up your email, and their Gibson Online logon and temporary password. If you did not receive your e-mail or password information, contact Technology Services at help@tulane.edu or 504-862-8888 for assistance. Be sure to check your Tulane email account for important messages about registration, schedule changes and communications from your instructors. 2. Plan your schedule using the online Schedule of Classes Create a course planner using the My Planner feature on the Schedule of Classes. There are several ways to search for classes: by course registration number, title, subject area, status, campus, and instructor. Select your desired search criteria and click the “Search All Courses” button to view the results. Be sure to select course sections that have available seats and that have no time conflicts. You can add a course to My Planner by clicking the “Add” button in the far-right column. As you build your schedule, any conflicts will be displayed with the word “Conflict” in My Planner, or as overlapping blocks when two selected courses have a schedule conflict. For Course Descriptions: Click on the highlighted course prefix and number (for example ECON 1010) to view the course description. Additional information such as prerequisites, co-requisites, and other important information will appear directly beneath the course. Please note that if you are registering for a course with prerequisites, contact the Summer Office for permission to enroll. Students applying to Special Programs & Institutes like Study Abroad, the TESL Institute, etc. should contact their program directly for registration instructions. Online Language Placement: In order to register for a language course at Tulane, students will need to follow our Language Placement Process to determine the appropriate course. If you have any questions, please reach out to summerschool@tulane.edu. 3. Register for classes Once you are satisfied with your planner and you are ready to register, click the green "Continue" button under the Course Cart or click over to the Register (Add/Drop) tab. This will bring you to the registration screen where all of the courses on your planner will appear. Next to each course you'll see a drop down menu that will allow you to add, remove or, if available, waitlist. Any conflicts or error messages will be highlighted in yellow and will need to be corrected at this time. Once all conflicts have been resolved, click "Submit Registration" at the bottom of the page. You are now registered. Click on the Current Schedule tab to review your registration and confirm that you are registered for the courses you selected. Summer classes do not have a waitlist option. If there are no seats available keep checking the schedule of classes to see if a seat becomes available, or contact the Summer Office for assistance. Information and Instructional Videos are available to help you work with Tulane University's online course planning and registration systems. *A note about registration: check your registration time-ticket on your Gibson Online student tab to see the specific time your registration opens. You can register for classes as soon as your time-ticket opens. 4. Review the Academic Calendar(s) for important dates Students may add and drop courses from their class schedule until the deadlines published online in the Academic Calendar. Keep in mind that each summer session or program has a distinct academic calendar. Students should review the summer calendar carefully to ensure that courses are dropped within the proper time to avoid potential academic or financial penalties. Special programs & summer institutes such as Study Abroad, TESL Institute, etc., may have dates that fall outside of the summer calendar. Detailed dates and information are listed under course information on the Schedule of Classes. All tuition refunds are made in accordance with this calendar and are effective the date the drop is processed in Gibson. Please do not hesitate to contact the Summer office with any questions. 5. Rules to live by Review the following academic expectations for all Tulane undergraduate students. Code of Conduct Tulane University expects and requires academic honesty and behavior compatible with its high standards of scholarship. By accepting admission to the university, a student accepts its regulations (i.e., Code of Academic Conduct and Code of Student Conduct) and acknowledges the right of the university to take disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion, for conduct judged unsatisfactory or disruptive. This applies to all students, full-time, part-time, or transient. Grade Grievance Procedure Students who believe a grade to be incorrect should first consult with their instructor to address any discrepancies. If questions remain or the situation is unresolved, students seeking redress should follow the official grade grievance procedure. Schedule Changes (Add/Drop) If you previously registered for a class and have decided to drop the class, click on the Register (Add/Drop) tab on the Schedule of Classes. Next to the course you wish to remove, select "Drop" from the drop down menu on the right. Click the "Submit Registration" button at the bottom of the screen. The course will no longer appear on the registration page. Click over to the Current Schedule tab to confirm your change(s). Students may change their schedules according to the academic calendar for each session or program. Failure to make schedule changes promptly and accurately results in financial or academic penalties. Please refer to the academic calendars at the beginning of each session’s listings for specific deadlines. If you need assistance with making changes to your schedule, the Summer office is here to assist you. Changes to classes in the Maymester, Early Summer, Full Summer, Late Summer and Augustmester sessions can be made via Gibson Online through the last day to drop unless otherwise noted on the Schedule of Classes. However, it is important that you keep in mind that Gibson will not allow you to drop to zero credits. Students who wish to withdraw from all summer classes must complete a Student Resignation form available from the Summer School office. If you need to drop your course after the first day of class, please complete a drop form. If you are withdrawing from all summer classes, contact us at summerschool@tulane.edu. Withdrawals and Refunds Students who register for courses are financially liable for the tuition and fees. Students should review the summer calendar carefully to ensure that courses are dropped within the proper time period. All tuition refunds are made in accordance with this calendar and are effective the date the drop is processed in Gibson. Students who do not officially drop a course are held responsible for full tuition and fees. Keep in mind that each summer program may have different drop and refund dates. For the most accurate information, contact the summer program directly. What's Next? On-Campus Housing & Dining Information about summer housing options are available from Tulane Housing and Residence Life. On the site you can learn more about housing options, rates, view important dates and request summer housing. Tulane also offers meal plans and dining opportunities for students. Get your Splash Card Once on campus, please visit Card Services, located in the Lavin-Bernick Center (LBC), to obtain your University ID. Your Splash Card provides access to the library and computer lab and is also your Accounts Receivable card and Meal Plan card. Where do I go? You may find this map useful in navigating your way around campus. You can access a list of building codes here: https://registrar.tulane.edu/building-codes I still have questions The Summer Office is here to answer questions and provide assistance - feel free to Contact Us. We look forward to seeing you on campus. Find more information about Summer Resources or check out our Frequently Asked Questions. Link to Tulane Home Page Summer School Newcomb-Tulane College Mussafer Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.314.2669 Maps & Directions Contact Us FAQ School of Professional Advancement Newcomb-Tulane College Pre-College Programs News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University