Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE COVID-19 Update Covid-19 Update Information for 2022 Summer Sessions At Tulane Pre-College, the health and safety of our students is always our number one priority. Tulane University has developed a comprehensive set of protocols and associated policies to protect the health and safety of pre-college students and the broader community from the spread of novel coronavirus on campus. We base decisions on guidance from the City of New Orleans, Louisiana Department of Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and other public health experts, as well as Tulane University health and safety protocols regarding K-12 populations. We plan to offer the full suite of pre-college programs in-person and online for Summer 2022. All pre-college participants attending in-person will be required to provide proof of COVID-19 vaccination prior to attendance. All current Tulane policies related to COVID-19 will apply once they are on campus. All pre-college participants attending in-person programs will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 72-hours of arrival. The test can be a PCR or rapid antigen self-test. Information on submitting the result prior to attendance will be communicated with families via email. Updates to COVID-19 related decisions will be posted on this website and communicated to the pre-college community through email and student portals, as they are available. If you have any immediate questions or concerns, please contact our office at (504) 314-7619 Monday-Friday 8:30AM - 5:00PM CDT or summer@tulane.edu. We’re hard at work designing a terrific experience for everyone. We look forward to seeing you this summer! Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University