Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer 2022 Columbia Summer 2022 Menu Overview Important Dates Arts and Humanities Economics and Finance Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences Social Justice and Public Policy New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences For more than 150 years, Columbia University researchers and graduates have been at the helm of advancing our understanding of our world and how to protect it. From the University’s earliest days of natural science research under the direction of James Renwick and Samuel Mitchill, in physics, chemistry, and natural history, to today’s breakthrough findings in medicine and calls for action from leading climate experts like Dr. James Hansen and Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig, Columbia is your destination. Summer Session students put theory to practice with the guidance of Columbia’s renowned faculty and gain access to state-of-the-art facilities owned by the university and its affiliates, including the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, the Earth Institute, and the new Climate School. Pre-medical studies offer students the option to advance preparatory coursework in chemistry, physics, and math, or take an elective, whether they are in a pre-medical program already or are entering one in the fall. More information is available here. To explore more course options in the sciences and other subject areas, please check the Directory of Courses for updates, as Summer 2022 courses are being added on a rolling basis. Registration opens on March 1. Contact Us Stay in-the-know about the Summer 2022 application, registration dates, and course listings by signing up for updates here: Request Information Receive updates and information about the application. Sign Up Here Contact An Advisor Speak With a Non-Degree Admissions Counselor. 212-854-9666 summersessions@columbia.edu Registration Information Registration for Summer 2022 courses is now open. Are you a high school student? Specific information about Columbia Pre-College programs may be found here. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy