Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Adults and Professionals: Registration Procedures Adults and Professionals Menu Overview Admissions Deadlines Application Requirements Qualifications Policies Contacts Tuition & Fees Student Life Campus Resources Admitted Students Registration Procedures Registered Students Housing FAQ Contact Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Adults & Professionals Adults & Professionals Admitted Students Enrollment Next Steps Welcome again to Columbia University this summer! We are so excited to have you studying with us this term. Visiting summer students at Columbia University have access to a dedicated Academic Advisor who can guide them through many aspects of their time at Columbia University, but our first role is to help you register for classes. All admitted students must register for their desired courses after receiving their admissions letter, following the steps below. Please note: listing your desired courses in your application does not automatically register you for those courses nor does it guarantee seat availability. 1. Enrollment Confirmation In order to secure a place in the program you must complete the enrollment form within the online application system and submit your tuition deposit, if applicable. 2. Submit Health Immunization Requirements New York State Law requires that all students, regardless of credit options or course modality selection, document their immunity to measles, mumps, and rubella. To do so, you must submit the Columbia University Measles, Mumps, and Rubella form to the Columbia Health Immunization Compliance Office and confirm your Meningococcal Meningitis decision online. Read more about immunization requirements. We encourage students to take action on this requirement as soon as possible, as it can take up to 10 business days for processing. 3. Activate your University ID (UNI) and Email (LionMail) Account Your UNI is created three to five business days after confirming your enrollment. To activate your UNI, click the “Activate Your UNI or LionMail Account” option on the Manage My UNI page. If you are unable to look up your UNI using the available search tool and more than five business days have passed, please contact apply@sps.columbia.edu. Use your UNI and password to ensure it is functioning properly. All University communications including bills will be sent to your LionMail account. Registering for Classes Registration Timeline New summer students are eligible to register for classes after they have completed key enrollment steps listed above including submission of required admissions and immunization documentation and activation of your UNI and LionMail email account. You can review the academic calendar for a comprehensive list of registration dates and other important deadlines. Students are responsible for understanding and adhering to the registration dates and deadlines specified in the academic calendar. Selecting Class Options SPS students have access to a wide variety of class options across the University in the summer. Students in structured programs such as our Certificate or Certification programs should review their curricular requirements with their Advisor. For students in unstructured programs, such as our Visiting Student Programs, our Advising Team can also be a helpful resource to ensure you are making the right course selection for your academic goals. Please feel free to contact your Advisor directly to set up a meeting to discuss your summer at Columbia University. Registering in Student Services Online (SSOL) After completing the steps outlined above, students formally register for class via Student Services Online (SSOL) during registration appointment windows available on most weekdays (excluding holidays). You can follow these registration instructions when navigating the system for the first time. View a Registration Webinar If you are looking for more information, we encourage you to review our pre-registration webinar. This is a video guide for registering for classes and helpful “pro-tips” for getting started. If you have any questions after reviewing this material, please reach out to your Advisor for more guidance. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy