Skip to content Summer 2022: Coronavirus Information Learn More Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Adult & College Students Course Formats & Technology Explore Courses Course Registration Tuition, Fees and Payment Summer Academic Calendar Harvard College Students High School Students Experience Harvard 2-Week Pre-College Program 7-Week Flexible Secondary School Program Events Study Abroad Browse Programs How To Apply Costs and Funding Policies and Safety For Admitted Students Students in Need of Accommodations For Students Campus Life Support and Services Policies and Regulations Activities, Athletics, and Museums Blog About Meet the Dean Our Mission MyDCE Login Request Info Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Study at Harvard This Summer Course Formats & Technology Explore Courses Course Registration Browse Courses Tuition, Fees and Payment Summer Academic Calendar Harvard College Students College Programs for High School Students 2-Week Residential Pre-College Program Browse Pre-College Courses 7-Week Flexible Secondary School Program Browse Secondary School Courses Events Study Abroad Browse Programs How To Apply Costs and Funding For Students MyDCE Login Activities, Athletics, and Museums Campus Life Support and Services Policies and Regulations About Mission Meet The Dean Contact Us Media Requests Harvard Summer School Blog Forms Summer Jobs for Harvard Students Website Archives Privacy Statement Start your education journey today. Request Info Student Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Spend Your Summer at Harvard. Explore courses and programs at Harvard Summer School. Join our vibrant, diverse community of motivated students and distinguished faculty as you satisfy your intellectual curiosity, make new friends from around the world, and explore the many facets of Harvard University. College Programs for High School Students Adult & College Courses Study Abroad Harvard Summer School is an academically rigorous experience for learners of all ages. Live on campus or study online. Join an international program or take one of our 400+ courses for college credit. Choose the summer experience that’s right for you. Academics Taught by Harvard faculty and visiting experts, our programs offer a challenging, rewarding academic experience. Community Study, socialize, and engage with a global community of students and peers. Flexibility With so many options to choose from, you can create the summer experience that works for you. Learn More About Harvard in the Summer Take Advantage of Harvard Resources When you enroll in summer classes at Harvard Summer School, you have access to a wide range of Harvard resources designed specifically to support your academic progress. Explore the Harvard library system. Get help with assignments from the Writing Center and Math Center. Get a jump start on your career with advice from the Center for Academic and Career Services. Our resources are here to help you succeed. Explore our student resources The oldest academic summer program in the U.S., Harvard Summer School offers a unique opportunity for intellectual exploration and cultural enrichment through the remarkable resources of Harvard University. Our Mission Explore Our Programs College Programs for High School Students Explore a variety of college-level courses, and live and learn alongside a diverse set of peers. Adult & College Courses Study at Harvard and build new knowledge for your college major or career. Study Abroad Engage your intellectual curiosity with Harvard faculty and expand your understanding of the world. Featured Blogs Ten Reasons Why You Should Take a College Class This Summer Blog What Did High School Students Study at Harvard Summer School in 2021? Blog Thinking about a Biology Major? Here's What You Should Know. Blog Eight Reasons Why Harvard Summer School Isn't a Summer Camp, and Why It's So Much More! Blog What You Need to Know About Pre-College Program Activities Blog Start your education journey today. Request Info Follow Harvard Summer School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College