Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Summer Sessions Menu Close Admissions and Registration Courses Tuition and Fees Student Resources Faculty Resources Admissions and Registration Courses Tuition and Fees Student Resources Faculty Resources Register Now Registration is now open. Enroll through the MyPack Portal Register for summer Summer Sessions 2022 Dates Maymester (3 weeks) – May 18 – June 8, 2022 Summer I (5 weeks) – May 18 – June 24, 2022 Summer I (10 weeks) – May 18 – August 2, 2022 Summer II (5 weeks) – June 27 – August 2, 2022 Find a Summer Class Search Class Offerings Select Summer I or Summer II to find a class that fits your schedule Search Three Credits in Three Weeks in CHASS Explore Maymester offerings in the College of Humanities and Social Sciences Learn more Spend your Summer at the Poole Are you ready to dive into the real world? Enroll in business courses for non-business majors Learn more Summer Sessions Resources Visitor Application The 2022 summer visitor application will open soon Learn more Enrollment Deadlines Don’t miss the registration deadline for Summer Sessions Learn more Academic Calendar View the important dates and deadlines for each Summer Session Learn more Summer Tuition and Fees Review tuition and fees for summer sessions Learn more Paying for Summer Sessions Find out if you are eligible for financial aid Learn more Summer Dining Options Explore your options for dining this summer Learn more Summer Housing Options Explore your options for staying on campus this summer Learn more Transportation Whether you drive, bike, or bus, getting around campus is easy Learn more Additional Resources Learn more about resources available for students on campus. Learn more Connect with us on Instagram Follow @summeratncstate to get the latest information and updates about Summer Sessions at NC State Connect on Instagram Spend your Summer at the Poole! Focus on one of your more difficult courses or complete a business minor in just two summers. Learn about all the benefits at go.ncsu.edu/SummerAtThePoole and follow @ncstatepoole. #SummerAtNCState View Open Don't miss out on our Summer Sessions 2022 snow cone and giveaway event on Tuesday, April 12, 2022, in Stafford Commons between 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. while supplies last. Summer Sessions 2022 #SummerAtNCState summer.ncsu.edu View Open Get three credits in three weeks when enrolling in a Summer Maymester course in the College of Humanities and Social Sciences and fulfill your degree requirements. Explore the course offerings at go.ncsu.edu/SummerMaymester and follow @ncstatechass. #SummerAtNCState View Open Upcoming Events All Events May 31 Tuesday Participants Needed for Black Health Lab Research Studies May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Across the Threshold of India – Photographs by Martha Strawn May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Eric Serritella – Sharing Spaces Take a Tour Explore NC State’s campuses and take a virtual tour. View the virtual tour A photo of the lobby of the Talley Student Union during the COVID-19 pandemic. Photo by Marc Hall Enrollment Management and Services Home Summer Sessions Campus Box 7404 Raleigh, NC 27695 Current students summersessions@ncsu.edu Visiting/Non-Degree students nondegreestudies@ncsu.edu Campus Map Connect With Us Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.