Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Visiting International Students You are here Home / Apply / Visiting International Students / Visiting International Students We're excited you're thinking about applying to Yale Summer Session! Before you apply: Read the application requirements and information for visiting international students below. Once you've read that information, click the button below to start your application. Application Requirements Tip: Please refer to Dates & Costs for all of the relevant deadlines. All supporting documentation must be received on or before the application deadline. Below the requirement list, we provide further explanation about some of the requirements. The following materials are required for visiting international student applications: Online Application University Transcript (in English): with Fall 2021 grades. If your fall grades are not available, then you must submit your high school transcript. Proof of English Proficiency: required if you will be taking Yale courses for credit. Not required if taking part in the Certificate Programs for International Students Financial Documentation (in English) with your name listed in the document. You must provide proof that you have sufficient financial resources to meet summer program tuition, fees, and living expenses. Such proof must be less than six months old and must be one of the following. If it is your parent's bank account, you should include the financial documentation plus a letter from your parent or guardian stating they will cover your fees and the letter must include your name. a. An original letter from your bank stating specifically that you have sufficient resources to meet all expenses for the program OR b. A bank statement showing that you have sufficient resources to meet all expenses for the program OR c. An original letter from a scholarship organization that will pay your expenses. Identity page of your passport: for students who will study in-person with us. Immunization records: for students who will study in-person with us and live on or off campus. If you are a student who is beyond college: you must provide a college transcript or a resume/CV Note: Be sure to read about Yale Summer Session's immunization requirements for students in in-person courses. Additional Requirements for Pre-College Applicants Students who will be entering their senior year of high school (their final year) are eligible to apply. You also must be 16 years of age or older by their program start date. Pre-College students have some additional requirements listed below: High School Transcript (in English): must include at least 2 1/2 years of grades. Pre-college applicants must be entering into their senior year of high school [summer after junior (3rd) year] or freshman year of college (summer after senior year). Two Letters of Recommendation TOC:Further Details about Requirements for International Students Visiting International Students Take courses with Yale faculty. Make new friends and expand your horizons with Yale Summer Session. Learn More Academic Information for Visiting International Students You'll select your program of study or courses at the time of application in the online application. If selecting courses for credit, we encourage you to read the course descriptions before applying found here so you can select the best course for you. Once admitted to a course, you will receive a grade unless you either drop the course or withdraw by filling out a form online. Two courses per session is the maximum enrollment. If you are attending online courses, you may choose one or two courses per session. If you are attending classes in-person, you must select two courses per session per the requirements of the F-1 student visa. You must be enrolled full-time if you attend in-person. Those wishing to take a science plus a lab (1.5 credits) will need to enroll in an additional 1 credit course (for a total of 2.5 credits) to meet the F-1 visa requirement. Note: The CDC has a useful webpage with information about requirements for international travel to the United States. Academic Transcripts An unofficial transcript or academic record in English is required as part of your application to Yale Summer Session. The online application enables you to upload an unofficial copy of your academic transcript. College students should submit a transcript of colleges/universities attended. Pre-College students should submit a high school transcript. Students who are beyond college should submit a college transcript or resume/CV if out of college for more than 10 years. Tip: All academic transcripts must show the name of the institution, dates of enrollment, and the subjects or courses taken, together with the units of credit or time allotted to each subject and the final grade. Applications are evaluated holistically, therefore, we do not have a GPA requirement. Health Insurance Yale Summer Session will purchase U.S. based health insurance for you if you receive an I-20 from our office. You will be billed for this insurance along with your other Yale Summer Session fees. The health insurance fee can be found here. U.S. citizens whose primary residence is outside of the United States may purchase our health insurance during your in-person study at Yale Summer Session. Proof of English Proficiency If you choose to take Yale Courses for Credit you must be able to express yourself fluently in spoken and written English. If you are not a native English-speaker and have not had at least two years of secondary education or university instruction where English is the medium of instruction, we require taking any one of the proficiency tests listed below. English proficiency scores are not required if you will be participating in a Certificate Program for International Students. Duolingo English Test (DET) Applicants may submit the Duolingo English Test (DET), which combines an English proficiency test with a brief video interview. Duolingo’s technology and format allows applicants to complete the test at any time or place with internet access. Yale’s most competitive applicants have DET scores of at least 120. TOEFL The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), is offered in two formats and requires pre-registration for available testing dates. Yale Summer Session requires: 100 on the internet-based TOEFL iBT 75 on the paper-and-pencil TOEFL Paper-delivered Test The results must reach Yale Summer Session by the application deadline date relevant to the program. Yale Summer Session will not accept TOEFL's "My Best Scores". IELTS The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) offer proficiency tests in locations around the world. Pre-registration is required. Yale Summer Session requires applicants to have an IELTS scores of 7 or higher. Pearson Test of English The Pearson Test of English (PTE) offer proficiency tests in locations around the world. Pre-registration is required. Yale Summer Session applicants must have a Pearson Test score of 70 or higher. Student Visa (F-1) Studying with us in-person generally requires entering the United States on a valid F-1 visa. You may not attend Yale Summer Session on a B-1 or B-2 (tourist visa). If you are in the United States on another visa category, you will need to upload your current US entry documents with your Summer Session application, and we will review it to determine whether you need to apply for an F-1 visa. Upon admission to Yale Summer Session, our office will process the Form I-20 and email it to you with instructions for proceeding to obtain your F-1 visa. You will receive the emailed I-20 about 3 weeks after you are admitted to the program. After receiving the I-20, you'll need to pay the SEVIS fee online and make an appointment to visit the local US embassy or consulate for the F-1 visa. Visa appointments in some countries have a wait time of a few weeks. All new students on an F-1 immigration status, other than those already studying in the US, must pay a SEVIS fee at least three days prior to the visa interview. Students will have the opportunity to print out their receipt at the end of the payment process. Students must bring one of the SEVIS receipts to the visa interview. Click here to learn more about it and to pay the SEVIS fee online. Please apply early so that you have plenty of time to get your visa and book your flights. Summer is a time of high demand for the airlines, too. When you arrive on campus for Summer Session, you are required to check in with the Office of International Students & Scholars to be registered with the SEVIS Department of Homeland Security. International students taking only online courses from their home country will not be issued an I-20. To waive the requirement of a statement of financial support, please contact us. Canadian citizens require an I-20 to participate in Summer Session, so their application process is the same as other international students, and they are required to be in a full-time course of study (2 course credits). But they do not need to get a visa stamp on their passports. Click here to read more. Students who decide to withdraw their Yale Summer Session application must inform Yale Summer Session immediately so that Yale can cancel the I-20. Check the Office of International Students and Scholars website for more information about visas. Fees for Visiting International Students A non-refundable visa processing fee is required at the time of application submission to Yale Summer Session. Please note that the SEVIS and visa processing fees are two different fees. There will also be a separate visa fee for the F-1 visa. Link: Read more about applying for an F-1 student visa. Immunization & Vaccination Information After admission, you will be required to upload proof of vaccinations if you will be attending classes in-person. You will be emailed a link and information about where to upload their vaccination records. You will need to be vaccinated against: MMR, Varicella, Meningitis, Tuberculosis, and COVID-19. All required documents are due three weeks before a program start date. For a list of COVID vaccinations that Yale accepts, click here. International Pre-College Students Please visit our pre-college page for further information and requirements for international high school students. Question: Please contact us if you have further questions about attending Yale Summer Session! Yale Summer Session 2022 Date: Session A: May 30 - July 1, 2022 Session B: July 4 - August 5, 2022 Read our Brochure! Click here to learn more about the exciting courses and programs offered by Yale Summer Session! Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in