Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer 2022 Columbia Summer 2022 Menu Overview Important Dates Arts and Humanities Economics and Finance Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences Social Justice and Public Policy New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Social Justice and Public Policy Study and analyze the complex political, economic, and social systems that impact nations and people around the world in the crossroads of the world, New York City. With respected institutions such as the United Nations headquartered in New York, Summer Session students are ideally situated to enhance their studies with co-curricular learning, as they connect with fellow students and mentors from around the globe. Faculty include experts from Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs; the United Nations Development Programme; and the UN Security Council. Columbia is also home to premier social justice scholars, including legal scholar Kimberlé W. Crenshaw, anthropologist Audra Simpson, journalist Daniel Alarcón, and medical ethicist Harriet A. Washington. Through classes, academic forums, and other experiential learning events held on and off campus, students have multiple possibilities to interact and learn from renowned scholars. Last year, Summer Session students had a selection of more than 50 relevant courses, including the International Political Economy; Islam in Popular Culture; Anti-Colonialism; Black Feminist Imaginaries: Practices and Politics; Indigenous Language Revitalization in Latin America; and the United Nations & Human Rights, among others. In addition, Columbia offers one-term Certifications of Professional Achievement in United Nations Studies, Human Rights, and Critical Issues in International Relations. Summer 2022 courses are being added to the Directory of Classes on a rolling basis. Please check back frequently for updates. Registration opens on March 1. Contact Us Stay in-the-know about the Summer 2022 application, registration dates, and course listings by signing up for updates here: Request Information Receive updates and information about the application. Sign Up Here Contact An Advisor Speak With a Non-Degree Admissions Counselor. 212-854-9666 summersessions@columbia.edu Registration Information Registration for Summer 2022 courses is now open. Are you a high school student? Specific information about programs for High School Students can be found here. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy