Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Critical Issues in International Relations Critical Issues in International Relations Menu Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Critical Issues in International Relations < See all Certificates and CPAs The non-degree Certification of Professional Achievement in Critical Issues in International Relations, offered by the School of Professional Studies and Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs, provides an understanding of the basic analytical issues, theoretical approaches, history, and policy debates in international relations. The certification is ideal for those who are looking to improve competence in international relations, whether they are recent college graduates who seek graduate preparation in the field, or experienced professionals looking for career enhancement or personal enrichment. Advanced undergraduates with strong academic records and a foundation in political science and international studies are also eligible to apply. See eligibility requirements below. Curriculum Students wishing to complete a certification must take the following courses: S6800. International Relations: Theory & Concepts S6572. Comparative Foreign Policy Two elective International Affairs courses Please visit the courses page for detailed course descriptions for all International Affairs offerings. The four required courses may be taken in one summer or divided between two. Students are required to maintain an overall minimum GPA of 3.0 (B). Every course creditable toward the certification must be taken for a letter grade. Courses with a grade below a C will not count toward the completion of the certification. Eligibility Requirements This certification program is offered at the graduate level. Undergraduate students are eligible to apply if they are rising juniors or seniors and have strong academic records and a foundation in political science and/or international studies. Current Columbia students are not eligible to earn the certification while enrolled in a degree program; however, they are eligible to take the individual courses for credit. Students enrolled in (or on leave from) a degree program at SIPA are not eligible to receive the certificate. Should SIPA students wish to take classes associated with the certificate they must first consult with their assigned academic advisor for guidance and approval. A person who earns the certificate and then later enrolls in a degree program at SIPA may not count any of the certificate courses towards the SIPA degree. U.S. bachelor’s degree or international equivalent. If your post-secondary credentials are from an institution outside the United States, the Office of Admissions requires you to submit all post-secondary credentials (undergraduate and graduate) to World Education Services, Inc. (WES), a third-party verification agency for a course-by-course evaluation for admission consideration. The Office of Admissions will use the credential evaluation provided by WES to determine if your undergraduate degree is the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree. To be considered for admission, students must be comfortable with rapid and idiomatic spoken English. If the language of instruction of your undergraduate degree conferring institution is English and you completed two or more years at the institution, you need not take further steps to prove fluency. However, if your undergraduate education is not conducted in English, or you completed fewer than two years at your degree conferring institution where English was the language of instruction, you must provide official scores on the TOEFL or IELTS. Applicant's total scores must meet the Columbia SPS minimum requirement of 100 (TOEFL iBT) or 7.0 (IELTS). You will be required to enter your test scores or your anticipated testing date within the online application, and official test score reports will be required for your application to be considered complete and ready for admission review. TOEFL and IELTS scores are valid for two years after your test date. Applicants receiving scores below the posted minimums may be advised to apply directly to the American Language Program. (Use school code 2594 to report TOEFL scores.) If you are unable to provide official scores on the TOEFL or IELTS due to the closing of testing centers, please email apply@sps.columbia.edu with the specific details of your situation. Demonstrated ability for critical thinking and analysis. Strong written and oral communication skills. Featured Student Student How This Columbia Summer Student (and CEO) Puts His International Relations CPA to Work How to Apply Visiting Students Undergraduates or graduates at another institution. See Details > Adults & Professionals Individuals with a bachelor’s degree or higher degree. See Details > Contact the Department Non-Degree Admissions Counselor 212-854-9666 internationalrelations [at] sps.columbia.edu Other Program Contacts Meet with an Admissions Counselor Are you a prospective student interested in learning additional information about this program? Schedule an on-campus or phone appointment with an Admissions Counselor online. Appointment Hours: 10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., ET, Monday - Friday Schedule an Appointment Effective immediately, the Office of Admissions is launching Virtual Walk-In Hours for prospective degree and non-degree students from 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. ET (15-minute sessions), Monday through Thursday. In-person Walk-In Hours in 203 Lewisohn are suspended until further notice. To connect with an Admissions Counselor for Virtual Walk-In Hours, please visit this Zoom room. You can access the Zoom room through a phone, laptop, desktop, or tablet. Advising If you are a current student or an admitted student starting next term, contact a member of our SPS Student Advising Team for information and guidance. Application Document Submission and Application Processing Questions 212-854-9666 apply@sps.columbia.edu Mailing Address and Campus Location Office of Enrollment Management School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, Mail Code 4119 New York, NY 10027-6902 212-854-9666 Office hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy