Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Pre-College Students You are here Home / Apply / Pre-College Students / Pre-College Students Application Requirements Yale Summer Session seeks motivated high school students who wish to enroll in Yale College courses for credit. While enrolled in Yale courses, qualified high school students will share the classroom with college students and will do college-level work. All participants will be held to the same set of standards. Pin:Please refer to Dates & Costs for all of the relevant deadlines. All supporting documentation must be received on or before the application deadline. Below the requirement list, we provde further explanation about some of the requirements. Pre-College Students Take college courses with Yale faculty. Study with students from Yale and around the world. Learn More Eligibility Tip: Pre-College students who wish to apply to Yale Summer Session: Must be entering the senior year of high school (summer after junior year) or freshman year of college (summer after senior year). Must be 16 years of age or older by their program start date. The following materials are required for pre-college student applications: Online Application High School Transcript with at least 2.5 years of grades. Please contact us if your transcript does not have at least 2.5 years of grades. Two Letters of Recommendation: one from a current teacher and one from a guidance counselor SAT/PSAT/ACT test scores are optional for 2022 at Yale Summer Session. Applicants who are unable to complete an exam or who choose not to report exam scores will not be disadvantaged. Academic Information for Pre-College Students Two courses per session is the maximum enrollment. Some courses are not open to pre-college students; please refer to the individual course descriptions for additional information. Residential Information for Pre-College Students Pre-college students, including those who have just graduated from high school, are required to live on campus unless they live with their family within commuting distance of New Haven if they are taking in-person courses. Pre-college students taking only online courses are not required to live on campus. Pre-college students who live on campus must take two courses in each session that they are living on campus. They are expected to remain on campus overnight except when participating in activities sponsored by Yale Summer Session, or when they have written permission from a parent or guardian to leave campus for a pre-determined, specified amount of time. Yale undergraduates serve as residential counselors and provide support and assistance. All students under the age of 18 live in the same residential college and are subject to a curfew and other special regulations. Students 18 years of age or older are housed separately. Note: Be sure to read about Yale Summer Session's immunization requirements for students in in-person courses. Academic Transcripts An unofficial transcript or academic record in English is required as part of the application to Yale Summer Session. High school students should submit a high school transcript showing final grades. The online application enables applicants to upload an unofficial copy of their academic transcript. All academic transcripts must show the name of the institution, dates of enrollment, and the subjects or courses taken, together with the units of credit or time allotted to each subject and the final grade. Applications are evaluated holistically; therefore, we do not have a GPA requirement. Question: Please contact us if you have further questions about attending Yale Summer Session! Yale Summer Session 2022 Date: Session A: May 30 - July 1, 2022 Session B: July 4 - August 5, 2022 Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in