Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Career Design Workshop Series: Build Your Personal Brand June142022 06:00 p.m. 07:30 p.m. EST RSVP Back to Events Summer Career Design Workshop Series: Build Your Personal Brand Facilitated by Louise A. Rosen, Senior Associate Dean of Administrative Affairs and Communications; Lecturer in Environmental Policy at the School of International and Public Affairs Do you have special expertise or skill in a certain area? How do others see you, and how do you want to be seen? This session helps job seekers and career pivoters to consider how to develop and influence public perception to elevate credibility and authority in their industry of choice. Speakers Louise A. Rosen Louise A. Rosen Senior Associate Dean of Administration and Communications at the School of Professional Studies; Lecturer in Environmental Policy at the School of International and Public Affairs 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy