Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Sessions | Courses | Germanic Languages and Literatures Back to Subject Areas Contact Information Admissions/Advising 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu https://sps.columbia.edu/admissions/visiting-students/contact Germanic Languages and Literatures The Germanic Languages Department offers accelerated and intensive language courses for beginners to intermediate speakers. Check the Directory of Classes for the most up-to-date course information in German. Summer 2022 Session Information SESSION A (First Half Term) courses are May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B (Second Half Term) courses are July 5–August 12, 2022 SESSION X (Full Term) courses are May 23–August 12, 2022 Courses Select Method of Instruction In-Person Select Session Session A Session B Expand All ACCELERATED ELEM READING I/II GERM1115S001 4 points. Prerequisites: no previous knowledge of German required, but some background is strongly recommended. This accelerated survey of German grammar, reading techniques, and dictionary skills is designed primarily for graduate students preparing for reading proficiency exams or wishing to do research in German-language literature. In addition to translation, the course focuses on strategies for extracting general and specific information from German texts (skimming and scanning) and judging their relevance for a specific research purpose. Reading texts take students' fields of study into consideration. Although this course does not satisfy any part of the foreign language requirement for degree candidates, successful completion of the translation on the final exam fulfills the German reading proficiency requirement in most graduate programs. Students are advised that this course is a full-time commitment. Students should expect to study 2 hours every day for every hour spent in the classroom and additional time on weekends. Students who would like to gain speaking and listening skills are advised to enroll in the Intensive Elementary German I and II, or another appropriate German course. The Department of Germanic Languages will assist in selecting the appropriate course. Equivalent to GERM UN1113-UN1114 taught during regular semesters. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location GERM1115S001 001/10070 Session A Mo 10:00 AM–12:05 PM Tu 10:00 AM–12:05 PM We 10:00 AM–12:05 PM Th 10:00 AM–12:05 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Simona Vaidean 4 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person ACCELERATED ELEM READING I/II GERM1115S002 4 points. Prerequisites: no previous knowledge of German required, but some background is strongly recommended. This accelerated survey of German grammar, reading techniques, and dictionary skills is designed primarily for graduate students preparing for reading proficiency exams or wishing to do research in German-language literature. In addition to translation, the course focuses on strategies for extracting general and specific information from German texts (skimming and scanning) and judging their relevance for a specific research purpose. Reading texts take students' fields of study into consideration. Although this course does not satisfy any part of the foreign language requirement for degree candidates, successful completion of the translation on the final exam fulfills the German reading proficiency requirement in most graduate programs. Students are advised that this course is a full-time commitment. Students should expect to study 2 hours every day for every hour spent in the classroom and additional time on weekends. Students who would like to gain speaking and listening skills are advised to enroll in the Intensive Elementary German I and II, or another appropriate German course. The Department of Germanic Languages will assist in selecting the appropriate course. Equivalent to GERM UN1113-UN1114 taught during regular semesters. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location GERM1115S002 002/10071 Session B Mo 10:00 AM–12:05 PM Tu 10:00 AM–12:05 PM We 10:00 AM–12:05 PM Th 10:00 AM–12:05 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Laura Tedford 4 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person INTENSIVE ELEM GERMAN I & II GERM1121S001 8 points. This intensive program provides one year of German in one six-week session. The course enables students to understand, speak, read, and write in German about a range of subjects: family activities, studies, work and home life, as well as travel, economics, and current events. Classes are conducted entirely in German and supplemented with written homework and audiovisual materials. Assignments and activities are diversified to integrate undergraduate and graduate students’ academic and personal interests. The program draws on the German heritage of New York City (museums, Goethe Institut, restaurants, etc.). Students are encouraged to attend German-language films and musical performances. Students have many opportunities for informal conversation. Upon successful completion of the course (with a minimum grade of B), students should achieve novice high to intermediate low proficiency (ACTFL scale). Final grades are based on frequent oral and written tests, writing assignments, a project on German culture in New York, and a final examination. Students are advised that this course constitutes a full-time commitment. The workload of this course is very intense and students will be expected to spend 4-6 hours studying every day outside of class and additional time on weekends. The Department of Germanic Languages will assist in selecting the appropriate course. Equivalent to the combination of GERM UN1101 and UN1102 taught during the regular semesters. Course Number Section/Call Number Session Times/Location GERM1121S001 001/10072 Session A Mo 11:00 AM–03:10 PM Tu 11:00 AM–03:10 PM We 11:00 AM–03:10 PM Th 11:00 AM–03:10 PM Instructor Points Enrollment Method of Instruction Silja Weber 8 Open for Enrollment (auto-fill Wait List) In-Person There were no courses found matching those criteria. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy