Skip to main content CSU Summer 2022 CSU A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Submit search navigation menu Home Courses at a Glance Courses by Subject Courses by Term AUCC Courses Online Courses Courses & Registration Add/Drop and Withdrawal Class Schedule (Registrar) Course Information Guides & FAQs Math Placement and Precalculus Courses Summer Session Calendar Summer Policies & Procedures Costs, Payment & Financial Aid Financial Aid/Summertime Savings Residency Classification in Colorado Student Billing Tuition & Fees Tuition Assessment Deadlines Summer-Only Students Accelerated Programs Why Summer? Summer Programs K-12 Summer Programs Portal Programs for Admitted Students Student Resources Campus Resources Events Learning Resources Contact Us Welcome! CSU Summer is home to credit-bearing courses, Accelerated Programs, and the K-12 Summer Programs Portal. Enrolled CSU students and Summer-Only students are welcome to take classes on campus and online through CSU Summer Session. With over 1,700 courses, the 4-, 8-, 12-week and additional-length terms allow students to focus deeply on fewer classes. Students may study at the CSU Mountain Campus, complete an AUCC course, internship, work on a major or minor, or try something new. Degree-seeking students can pursue one of 31 current accelerated programs and graduate in 3-3.5 years by taking summer courses. K-12 summer programs are available for pre-kindergarten through high school students in a variety of academic areas and sports. Explore, experience, and expand through CSU Summer! Summer Session 2022 Announcements The Summer Session 2022 schedule is easy to search at at Courses at a Glance. It is also available through the Class Schedule and in RAMweb. Registration is open and continues on a space-available basis through the schedule change period for each course. Financial aid will be widely available regardless of residency. CSU Summertime Savings: Colorado resident undergraduates with financial need may benefit from increased funding for CSU Tuition Assistance Grants. Non-resident undergraduates registered through RAMweb receive a 30% base tuition reduction for Summer Session 2022. The Flexible Payment Plan is now available for summer courses. On- and off-campus jobs are plentiful and flexible. Prorated on-campus housing: Pay only for the time you stay. Search Courses at a Glance Summer Session 2022 Terms Summer 2022 Term Schedule: • 4-week terms: May 16-June 12, June 13-July 10 and July 11-August 7; • 8-week terms: May 16-July 10 and June 13-August 7; • 12-week term: May 16-August 7; • Additional terms of varying lengths Colorado State University is actively monitoring the status of COVID-19 and responding with the health and well-being of our community firmly in mind. Please visit the Covid-19 Information and Resources website. CSU Mountain Campus Courses New to Summer Session 2022, the College of Liberal Arts will offer: Nature, Immersion, and Well-Being (NRRT 280), and Three Environmental Humanities two-week courses available to all degree-seeking students at the CSU Mountain Campus. Students may take one, two, or all three courses, including North American Environmental History (HIST 355), Writing the Environment (E 403), and Environmental Ethics (PHIL 345). Experience learning at 9,000 feet! Begin your exploration with this article and flyer. The beautiful CSU Mountain Campus is the summer home for courses including Basic Outdoor Skills (FW 111) which is open to all students, and many courses specifically for students pursuing majors in the Warner College of Natural Resources. Explore these courses at the CSU Mountain Campus website. Summer-Only Students Accelerated Programs K-12 Programs Portal Why Summer? Learning Resources CSU Summer staff are working on campus and remotely. Please contact us. We look forward to hearing from you! Important Information by Student Type Students seeking a CSU degree Taking an online class? CSU Main Campus students register for online classes through RAMweb, rather than CSU Online. Current on-campus, degree-seeking CSU students No need to complete a summer application. Registration begins Tuesday, March 22, 2022 at noon. Registration continues on a space-available basis until classes begin and extends through the schedule change period. The interactive course listings for Summer Session 2022 courses are available for view by subject, term within summer session, and All-University Core Curriculum (AUCC) courses. It is easy to filter by face-to-face, hybrid and online courses. Summer 2022 courses will be available in December 18, 2021. Courses may also be viewed in RAMweb. Non-Resident Base Tuition is reduced by 30% in summer 2022. The reduction applies to all credits and delivery methods (face-to-face, hybrid, and online). For additional details please visit: 2022 Nonresident Tuition. Please note: This reduction does not apply to WUE recipients, graduate students and INTO students. CSU Online students (no campus classes) Learn about CSU Online’s undergraduate and graduate degree programs. View courses and register through CSU Online’s website. Students applying for CSU admission for Summer 2022 Students applying to a degree program including campus-based classes beginning Summer Session 2022 apply through the Office of Admissions. Students not seeking a CSU degree Online classes only No application needed! View courses, and register through CSU Online’s website. For assistance, contact CSU Online staff. Face-to-Face classes (with or without online classes) Students who are not a seeking a degree at CSU and take face-to-face classes, or a combination of face-to-face and online classes, are “Summer-Only” students. For information about the easy application, transferring credits, and prerequisites, please visit the resource page for “Summer-Only” students. COLLEGES: Agricultural Sciences Business Engineering Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Natural Resources Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences SCHOOLS & PROGRAMS: Graduate School International Programs Online Degrees and Courses School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Social Work Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University