CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Summer Session Registration Dates Fees & Payment Study Abroad Non-CSUF Students +Resources Supplemental Instruction Early Start Housing Contact Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Summer Session Registration Dates Fees & Payment Study Abroad Non-CSUF Students Resources Supplemental Instruction Early Start Housing Contact Summer Session Earn credit over the summer break Summer Session: One Step Closer to Graduation at CSUF Summer Session is open to currently admitted CSUF students. Transfer students admitted for Fall, non-admitted students and members of the public can take summer classes through Open University. Summer Session provides a great opportunity to achieve your academic goals and accerlerate your path to graduation. Contact your Student Success Team to find out how you may benefit from taking summer classes. Finish the last units you need to graduate by the end of summer. Increase your GPA. Complete prerequsities, GE courses or internships. Take a class you couldn't get into during Fall or Spring. Online, hybrid and in-person courses are offered. Make the most of Summer Session at CSUF: Register Now Register for classes on Titan Online Important Dates and Deadlines Learn more about Summer dates and deadlines. Fees & Payments Learn more about Summer fees and payment options. Non-CSUF students can take Summer classes through Open University Summer Session 2022 Dates Summer Session runs from May 31 - August 5, 2022. Classes are offered in five accelerated sessions, varying from 5 to 10 weeks long. For specific Session dates and other deadlines, visit the Dates page. Summer Session Dates Over 800 sections offered Our goal is to provide you as many opportunities to get closer to graduation as possible. Questions? If you have any questions about Summer Session, send us a note and we will get back to you soon. Contact Us Over 800 sections offered Our goal is to provide you as many opportunities to get closer to graduation as possible. Go Abroad This Summer Earn credit and see the world. Explore Summer Session Study Abroad options that fit your budget and get you closer to graduation. Study Abroad this Summer What Cal State Fullerton students are saying about Summer Session "It’s an opportunity to get classes finished quickly. Also allows for a lighter class load during the regular semester." "Because the classes are usually small in size, I was able to sit down with my professors one on one to go over the material." "Many classes are offered online, so for someone who lives three hours away, such as myself, this is a great opportunity." "The summer break is long, so why not spend some amount of time on studying in order to graduate sooner." < Previous > Next Questions? If you have any questions about Summer Session, send us a note and we will get back to you soon. Contact Us This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©