Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Students Beyond College You are here Home / Students Beyond College / Students Beyond College Why Choose Yale Summer Session? Curiosity has no bounds, and neither does Yale Summer Session. We offer over 150 courses to students who have already graduated from college. Most are small seminars with top Yale faculty. We’re also home to the Yale Writers’ Workshop. More information about the application process for students beyond college. Available Programs Even if you have already graduated from college, you still have the option to apply for a number of our programs: Yale College Courses for Credit: Session A and B Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Law Seminar for International Students Business Seminar for International Students Postgraduate Seminar - Online Tip: Students who have been out of college for five or more years may submit a resume or CV in place of an academic transcript Link: Resources for Students Beyond College Application Information Quote: One of the best things I ever did for myself was to attend the Yale Writers' Workshop. I went to Yale with a fair amount of skepticism about how much help I could expect and anxiety about people being condescending. To my delight, I left the conference inspired, exhausted and bursting with ideas and new friends. I have been writing diligently ever since. The best part of all is the community of writers that I have become a part of. The support of this special community has extended beyond the gates of Yale, long after the workshops have ended. I recommend this conference to anyone with a passion for writing. Elene Catrakilis Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in