Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer 2022 Columbia Summer 2022 Menu Overview Important Dates Arts and Humanities Economics and Finance Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences Social Justice and Public Policy New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Columbia Summer 2021 Looking for a way to enrich your summer? Registration for Sessions A and X are now closed. Registration for Session B is still open. Browse Summer 2022 course offerings here. Join Columbia University’s Summer Sessions. Our programs feature a wide variety of course offerings with some of the University’s most sought-after faculty. Whether you are a current Columbia student, visiting from another institution, or a professional, we invite you to join our community for both enriching coursework and engaging activities, offered all summer long. At Columbia, you’ll be surrounded by leading scholars and exceptional students from around the world. This summer, we’re offering courses in two sessions: SESSION A May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B July 5–August 12, 2022 Some courses are available to be taken during the full summer term, Session X, taking place May 23 through August 12, 2022. Join us for upcoming webinars Learn more about Summer 2022 offerings and application information with our admissions team. Upcoming Events All Events June 01 2022 05:30 pm EST Online Event Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting RSVP Contact Us Stay in-the-know about the Summer 2022 application, registration dates, and course listings by signing up for updates here: Request Information Receive updates and information about the application. Sign Up Here Contact An Advisor Speak With a Non-Degree Admissions Counselor. 212-854-9666 summersessions@columbia.edu Important Dates for Summer 2022 Applications Closed Enrollment Priority Deadline February 1, 2022 Session A: Applicants with International Documents March 21, 2022 Session A & X: Final Deadline April 11, 2022 Session B: Applicants with International Documents May 2, 2022 Session B: Final Deadline May 23, 2022 Session A May 23–July 1, 2022 Session B July 5–August 12, 2022 Session X May 23–August 12, 2022 Registration Information Registration for Sessions A and X is closed; registration is still open for Session B. Are you a high school student? Specific information about programs for High School Students can be found here. Students Discuss Their Summer Experience Past Student Visiting Student Luis Felipe Garcia Aizcorbe: Elevating an Industrial Engineering Degree with Courses in Finance and Marketing with Columbia Summer Past Student Columbia Summer Student Austin Luo: “I plan to apply the new problem-solving methods and technical skills I learned at Columbia to my upcoming projects at Microsoft.” 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy