Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Academic Programs Tulane University understands that the world is facing some big challenges—addressing the shortage of STEM professionals, cultivating healthcare leaders of the future, and informing the next generation of talented historians, to name a few. In order to inspire the next generation to tackle these complexities, we offer exceptional students an opportunity to participate in a Tulane Pre-College program. Here, young minds can explore academic disciplines to imagine a future where they can make an impact. Tulane University’s Pre-College programs, with both credit and enrichment options, have helped inspire students each year, giving them an opportunity to build their resumes and get a taste of college life within a safe environment. Tulane Science Scholars Program Tulane Science Scholars Program courses designed to provide high school students with hands-on experience within science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. View Program Newcomb Summer Session Newcomb Summer Session is a program in gender equity studies available to all students who are motivated to explore gender issues, feminist ideas, and social change. View Program Career Explorations in Architecture Students explore architectural ideas, methods, and issues with Tulane professors and local architects. The program includes lectures, studio, workshops, field trips and discussions. View Program Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute students have an opportunity to explore a variety of subjects, such as engineering, medicine, sports, and public health. View Program Young Public Scholars Designed specifically for the young social justice advocate, our Young Public Scholars Program allows students to expand on their knowledge, focus their vision, and contribute to real-world change. View Program FAQ "Do we have homework?" "What do I do when I'm not in class?" See answers to Frequently Asked Questions about our programs, the application, and how to prepare for your Tulane Pre-College experience. Learn More How to Apply The application for Summer 2022 opens December 3, 2021! For staying up to date on news concerning the application, sign up for more information. If you have any other questions about Tulane Pre-College, email us or call (504) 314-7619. Steps to Apply: Choose your Experience What do you want to study? Do you want to earn credit? Browse Courses Want to dive deep into your favorite topic? Or, explore a brand new subject? Start Your Application Apply now to have your best summer ever! Experience a Summer of Possibilities Live and learn online with a top-ranked university alongside talented students from around the globe! Application Tips Apply by the Priority Application Deadline to ensure a spot in your selected course Access your student portal to view updates and make payments Check your email regularly for updates and admission decisions If you need login information sent to another email address, email summer@tulane.edu Apply Now Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University