Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Academics Engaging Courses For Middle and High School Tulane University academic staff members designed the pre-college experience to immerse students in the fields of humanities, STEM, and the arts. Select courses are offered for three hours of transferable Tulane credit. Tracks are available for middle and high school students, and the curricula are designed to match students’ academic levels. The learning environment at Tulane is unique because it aims to accomplish the following: Provide students with authentic, problem-based learning that addresses 21st-century issues Design, create, and test solutions for real-world problems Foster interest in important fields such as the arts, architecture, sciences, and mathematics Provide students with models of professionals—engineers, writers, photographers, and scientists—to help them imagine their future careers Showcase the ways researchers at Tulane are advancing technology and conservation efforts View All Courses How to Apply Innovative Learning Beyond the Classroom Several features set the Tulane Pre-College experience apart from other learning opportunities: Unique courses: Every year, Tulane’s Pre-College Summer Programs focus on an array of exciting coursework. Hands-on experience: Whether students are interested in robotics or history, Tulane University provides hands-on learning opportunities that are active and engaging. Lab and experimental training: The best pre-college programs focus on addressing real-world problems, and the Tulane University summer courses are no exception. In addition to having the option to earn college credit, pre-college participants design practical solutions for the challenges facing the world today. Experienced staff, diverse community: Tulane’s Pre-College programs bring together talented students with exceptional potential. Courses help nourish such talents and give students a roadmap for building careers in their fields of choice. Find the Program That's Right For You Tulane Pre-College offers a selection of courses each summer for motivated middle and high school students who wish to pursue their academic interests while strengthening their college applications. The aim of Tulane University Pre-College is to develop students both inside and outside of the classroom in a safe and supportive environment. Students who have participated in Tulane Pre-College return to school with a much better sense of what they need to do in preparation for college. College Credit Courses Tulane Pre-College gives high school students the opportunity to take college credit courses taught by Tulane Pre-College instructors. Courses for college credit are selective and geared toward rising 11th through 12th grade students interested in a challenging academic experience. Pre-college students typically earn three hours of general education credits and an official Tulane transcript. Courses in science, engineering, and architecture are offered each summer and have a workload similar to that of a Tulane freshman course. During the session, students can participate in co-curricular activities like lectures by guest speakers and infso sessions our libraries, labs, studios, and facilities, including the Tulane Makerspace. Enrichment Courses Pre-college enrichment classes can be particularly beneficial for young students who are eager to expand their academic horizons. This program allows rising 6th through 12th grade students to explore academic subjects without the pressure of exams and grades. Our middle school enrichment courses encourage students to explore new ideas and fields of study. Students participate in hands-on activities that immerse them in academic disciplines like biomedical engineering, coding and robotics, debate, NASA’s ASTRO CAMP®, and more. The courses for high school students facilitate their transition from high school to college by exposing them to a higher level of learning. High school STEM enrichment courses allow students to enhance skills in specific STEM fields including neuroscience, sports medicine, biometrics, and coastal preservation. Pre-college humanities courses help students gain in-demand skills in creative problem solving, communication, and research. For summer 2022, Tulane Pre-College offers online enrichment courses, which run for two weeks with a mixture of synchronous and asynchronous coursework. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University