Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Pre-College Programs Pre-College Programs In the Columbia Summer Session, students can explore their interests as they gain experience navigating a collegiate environment. Enhanced experiential events give students the opportunity to interact with Columbia faculty and explore New York landmarks and institutions — from Wall Street to Broadway, and from museums to medicine — as seen through an academic perspective. Students have several academic and program options to choose from: the High School Immersion Program, which includes a commuting, residential, and online option; and College Edge, meant for students wishing to gain practical, for-credit academic experience, in advance of beginning their formal college studies. High School Immersion Intended for students in grades 9–12, and for entering undergraduates seeking academic credit, this program offers an opportunity to explore possible fields of study and prepare for college applications. Columbia offers in-person and online study options. Visit Site Year-Round Immersion This program is ideal for grades 9–12 students seeking to explore college coursework and prefer the flexibility of online courses. Columbia offers 2-week and 1-week sessions in the Summer. College Edge Offered year-round, College Edge is designed for academically exceptional 11–12 grade students and incoming freshmen who would like to get ahead on college requirements and receive transferable credits. Visit Site Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Students will explore the field of computer programming and cover a range of fundamental front end web development technologies through skills-based learning. Visit the SEAS website for details 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy