Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Pre-Med | Featured Courses Back to Subject Areas Contact Information Admissions/Advising 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu https://sps.columbia.edu/admissions/visiting-students/contact Pre-Med Preparation Want to polish your transcript and prepare for a future that includes medical school? The Pre-Med Preparation focus area is a good option for your summer course load. Summer pre-med courses are perfect if you’re either in a pre-med program or are entering one in the fall. If you are planning to start a pre-med program in the fall, use your summer to take preparatory coursework in Chemistry, Physics, Math, or take an elective to enhance your studies. Chemistry Department Note: Lab fees, paid at the time of registration, cover the costs of nonreturnable items, chemicals, and reasonable breakage. In addition, students may be charged for excessive breakage, returning equipment uncleaned, or late check-out. Students must present lab fee receipt at the first laboratory meeting. Summer 2022 Session Information SESSION A (First Half Term) courses are May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B (Second Half Term) courses are July 5–August 12, 2022 SESSION X (Full Term) courses are May 23–August 12, 2022 To request a syllabus, please contact the Summer Sessions office at summersessions@columbia.edu. Choose up to four classes (12 points) from courses running in: Chemistry (link to Directory) Mathematics (link to directory) Physics (link to Directory) Statistics (link to Directory) Also of Interest Opportunity to identify partnerships with Columbia Medical Systems Volunteer opportunities Speakers series Electives of Interest Topics in Clinical Psychology (PSYC S3623) Introduction to Development (PSYC S2280) Ethics (PHIL S3701) Undergraduate Writing (ENGL S1010) 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy