Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Join the Residential Staff You are here Home / Residential Staff / Join the Residential Staff Summer 2022 Residential Staff Positions Develop your leadership, organizational, communication and conflict-resolution skills! We are looking for Yale students and alumni to serve in the following Residential Staff positions this summer: Residential Counselors Residential Assistants Activities Coordinator Buttery Managers Communications Coordinator Any currently enrolled Yale student or graduate student in good academic standing or any Yale alumnus is eligible to apply. The ideal candidate will have spent one or two years in a residential college. The most effective applicant is a mature student who enjoys working with others and who feels committed to the intellectual and social values of residential college life. The positions also require resourcefulness, excellent problem-solving skills, energy, creativity, integrity, good judgment, and a deep wellspring of patience. Previous counseling experience is a plus for all positions. Yale Summer Session may adjust the activities and/or responsibilities associated with these positions in response to guidance on COVID-19 from state, local, and university authorities. Any changes will not affect compensation for this position. Residential Life Staff are not responsible for enforcing public-health guidelines, although they may serve in an educational function for the Yale Summer Session community. The Summer 2022 Residential Colleges are Saybrook, Trumbull and Berkeley. Job Descriptions and Application The job descriptions for the Summer Residential Life positions are in the link below. Link: Summer 2022 Job Descriptions The application deadline is Friday, February 18, 2022 at 4pm EST. Decisions will be released by Monday, March 21, 2022. Residential Director Positions Residential Directors live in the Residential Colleges and are responsible for mentoring Residential Counselors and Senior Counselors, enforcing campus policies, mediating conflicts, developing programs for the residents and managing crises. Residential Directors work as tight team under the Head of Summer Colleges. There will be one position for a Head Residential Director, three positions for Residential Directors of each of the summer colleges, and one Residential Director who will take a budget and business role. These positions are open to graduating seniors and those who are beyond college. Link: 2022 Residential Director Position Descriptions Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in