Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Arts in the Summer Arts in the Summer Menu Overview Admissions Qualifications Deadlines Application Requirements Contacts FAQ Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Arts in the Summer If you’re interested in taking only courses offered by the School of the Arts this summer we have a simple application process that will allow you to take courses in Film, Writing, Visual Arts, or Theatre. Whether you’re a beginning artist or an experienced practitioner, you can be part of Arts in the Summer with the School of the Arts. Please note that high school students are not eligible for this application process. Due to high demand in courses, please verify the course in which you are interested has seats available before applying. Advanced Painting Intensive (Visual Arts) The Advanced Painting Intensive mentors students through individual and group critique, technical tutorials, exposure to the New York gallery and museum worlds, and lectures and critiques by nationally known visiting artists. For more information about the Advanced Painting Intensive, please see the School of the Arts website. Students apply to the Advanced Painting Intensive through SPS. If you are interested in the Advanced Painting Intensive, you will need to submit additional application materials including a portfolio of 10 images and a Statement of Intent. Please see the Application Requirements section for details. Subject Areas Choose courses from four subject areas offered by the School of the Arts. Drama & Theatre Developed by the Oscar Hammerstein II Center for Theatre Studies. See courses > Film Includes courses in history, production, and writing. See courses > Writing Offered by the Undergraduate Creative Writing Program at Columbia. Includes workshops and craft seminars in fiction, nonfiction, and poetry. See courses > Visual Arts Includes courses in photography, painting, and printmaking See courses > Additional faculty and course details can be found by visiting the School of the Arts summer programs webpage. Success Stories Student Deborah Ten: Transitioning from PR to Copywriter Student Madeline Morris: Preparing to Work for Stephen Colbert Tuition & Fees Tuition and fees can be found in the Visiting Students section. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy