Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Key to Course Listings Summer Courses Menu Overview Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Request Information Request Information Summer Courses Courses are listed in sequence within each department, in the format described below. CLLT S3310D. Classical Mythology. 3 points Introduction to and analysis of major myths in classical literature. Topics include the changing attitudes and applications of myth from Greek epic to tragedy, as well as modern approaches to myth. Readings include Homer, Hesiod, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. All readings in English. CLLT An abbreviation of Academic Department or Subject Area to which the course belongs. S3310D Course Number (see explanation below) Classical Mythology. Course Title 3 point(s) Point Value 1 point=1 semester hour. All courses must be taken for credit, unless specifically noted. Explanation of Course Numbering System PREFIX NUMBER SUFFIX S 3310 D Other Prefixes: A Architecture, Planning and Preservation BC Barnard College C Columbia College E Fu Foundation School of Enginering and Applied Science F School of General Studies G Graduate School of Arts and Sciences N Noncredit Courses P School of Public Health R School of the Arts S Summer Course U School of International and Public Affairs V Joint course with Barnard College W Other interfaculty course The first digit of the number represents the level of the course, as follows: 0 Course that cannot be credited toward any degree 1 Introductory-level undergraduate course 2 Introductory- or intermediate-level undergraduate course 3 Advanced-level undergraduate course 4 Introductory graduate course; may be taken by advanced undergraduates with appropriate preparation 5-8 Advanced graduate course The suffix indicates the session in which the course is offered. In this example, the course is offered during Session D. Location of Classes Room assignments and course changes for all courses are published in the Directory of Classes. The University reserves the right to withdraw or modify the courses of instruction or to change the instructors as may become necessary. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy