Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers FAQ Summer Courses Menu Overview Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Request Information Request Information Summer Courses Below are some frequently asked questions about the program. Expand All When will the Summer 2022 course list be available? Course offerings for Summer 2022 will be available in the late winter and early spring. Please check back as additional courses are added. How do I know if a class is full? Some classes have an enrollment cap. If you see a maximum number under the enrollment column and a number that matches that maximum number, the class is currently full. As the enrollment numbers fluctuate through the last day of Change of Program Period, we recommend checking this number periodically to see if there are changes. The system updates overnight to reflect the most up-to-date numbers. Will these course credits transfer to my home institution? Columbia Summer Sessions cannot determine if a visiting student’s credits will transfer to their home institution. The student’s home institution is responsible for determining if the Columbia Summer credits will transfer to their degree requirements. What if the class I want is full? Is there a waitlist? Waitlists are available for the summer term. If a preferred class is full, we encourage students to add themselves to the waitlist and enroll in an alternate course.Often students will change their courses through the last day of Change of Program and students can get into their first choice course. Who do I contact regarding course-specific questions? Please reach out to the SPS Advising team at spsadvising@columbia.edu. You may also contact the listed instructor to request a syllabus, if needed. Who do I contact regarding application, registration, tuition questions? To speak with a Summer Sessions Admissions Counselor, email summersessions@columbia.edu or call 212-854-9666 . To speak with an advisor, please email spsadvising@columbia.edu. How do I find an instructor’s contact information? An instructor’s contact information can be found in the Columbia University People Directory. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy