Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers 10 Ways to Maximize Your Summer at Columbia February 11, 2021 10 Ways to Maximize Your Summer at Columbia In less than a month, registration will open for Columbia University students to take Summer courses, offered in two sessions this year: Session A, May 3–June 18, and Session B, June 28–August 16. Here are ten ways to get the most out of your summer this year. Learn directly from senior Arts and Sciences faculty members Fulfill degree requirements such as core or Foundations courses or shorten the time it takes to complete your degree (the 2021 Summer Session Course Guidelines for Columbia College and General Studies will be posted soon) Participate in timely and dynamic conversations with some of the University’s most accomplished and celebrated faculty through the Summer Ideas Exchange Take unique courses that you couldn’t fit into your schedule or weren’t available in the Fall or Spring Demonstrate a well-rounded and versatile course of study Gain additional laboratory experience Get a jump on your studies as a newly-admitted student Gain exposure to a new passion project or academic area outside of your area of concentration Learn a new language Develop transferrable business skills such as finance, marketing, and people management More than 100 Courses in 50 Subjects New courses for the summer are regularly being added to the Directory of Classes. Browse Summer 2021 courses in your department or subject of choice and/or select Summer 2021 in the Course Listings by Department section. Confirmed courses include Culture, Memory, and Crisis in Modern U.S. History with Associate Professor of History Hilary-Anne Hallett; Nuclear Weapons and Nuclear Testing with Professor of Physics Emlyn Hughes; Music and Myth with Professor of Music and Historical Musicology Giuseppe Gerbino; and Censorship and Freedom of Expression in Early Modern Europe with Elisheva Carlebach, Salo Wittmayer Baron Professor of Jewish History, Culture and Society Most courses are expected to be posted in February. Take a look at the courses from last summer. Subject areas include: African-American Studies Architecture Biochemistry and Biology Business Economics Film Mathematics Human Rights and International Affairs Slavic Languages and Literature Spanish Sustainable Development When to Register Starting on March 8th, registration appointment times will be available on Student Services Online for Columbia University undergraduates, including students enrolled in General Studies, Columbia College, Barnard, and Engineering. For information on registration procedures, including late registration and maximum point loads, please consult with your program advisor. Teachers College students should visit the Teachers College Office of the Registrar website. Students who’ve been admitted to a Columbia University program in the Fall who would like to begin their studies early must contact their academic advising office for approval and registration procedures. Course Formats As of February 3, 2021, Columbia University is committed to offering all summer courses online. Additional course formats such as HyFlex will be announced as soon as final decisions have been made. You can find information on an individual course section’s modality listed on the Directory of Classes under “Method of Instruction.” Questions Visit Columbia Summer’s FAQ for Columbia University students. Consult with your advisor for approvals and to ensure that you meet eligibility requirements for a course(s). Plans for Summer 2021 Housing will be determined as the University operating plan is confirmed; check Housing for Current Columbia Students for updates. Consult the Directory of Classes and/or Vergil to preview available courses in the Summer 2021 term. News All news Deborah Ten: Transitioning from PR to Copywriter Zsanett Suto: Learning Security Analysis in the Global Capital of Finance 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy