Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Student Life Tulane Pre-College creates opportunities for exceptional and curious students to explore college life in a safe and nurturing environment. Through introductions to college-level academic disciplines and the Tulane experience, middle and high school students begin to imagine how they can pursue their academic interests in and out of the classroom and tackle real-world problems, all while taking their college applications to the next level. Experience Tulane Pre-College Our classes and instructors nurture curiosity, incubate ideas, and encourage young individuals to consider how they can make an impact on the human condition and the world. Tulane Pre-College provides students with an immersive, hands-on experience, access to college life and future career exploration, and a community of motivated and ambitious learners from around the globe. Online Courses Online courses give you the flexibility to learn using a hybrid model of coursework that is both synchronous (class time spent online with other students and instructors) and asynchronous (self-paced assignments done individually). Learn More Co-Curricular Activities There is always an activity to join or time to spend time with your friends from the programs. We offer both academic and social activities as well as plenty of down time to read, study, or get to know other Pre-College students. Learn More FAQ "Do we have homework?" "What do I do when I'm not in class?" See answers to Frequently Asked Questions about our programs, the application, and how to prepare for your Tulane Pre-College experience. Learn More Tulane Distinctions From lab to space Wound-healing technology developed at Tulane by former biomedical engineering graduate students blasted off on the SpaceX Dragon Cargo Ship for experiments on the International Space Station. Click the image below to learn more about their project's journey into outer space. Innovation in Orbit Tulane School of Architecture’s community design center nationally recognized for collaborative approach The Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture named Tulane University School of Architecture’s Albert and Tina Small Center for Collaborative Design one of only four recipients of its Collaborative Practice Award for the 2018-2019 academic year. Read more Yoruba science textbook will be put to the test This month a Mellon Fellow from Tulane University, Taofeeq Adebayo, will travel to Nigeria to begin teaching middle-school students from a science textbook he translated with four graduate student collaborators from University of Ibadan, Nigeria. Read more More Tulane News Tulane is rated in the Top 10 in eight categories by The Princeton Review Tulane offers 100+ study abroad programs in 40+ countries Tulane's motto is Non sibi, sed suis, "not for one's self, but for one's own On average, Tulanians log +750,000 hours in the community each year Tulane ranked No. 1 for the number of graduate students who join the Peace Corps This year 38,500 students applied to Tulane from 30 countries Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University