Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Frequently Asked Questions The Tulane Pre-College office is open from 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Central Time Monday - Friday. You can reach us at summer@tulane.edu or (504) 314-7619. Program FAQ Who can attend the Pre-College Summer Programs? Tulane Pre-College accepts students entering the 6th through 12th-grade for our enrichment courses. College credit courses are open to rising juniors and seniors. Why are some of the Pre-College Summer Program courses "non-credit?" Our noncredit enrichment courses allow middle and high school students the experience of exploring college-level academic subjects without the pressure of exams and grades. Students who successfully complete an enrichment course receive a certificate of completion. Will there be homework outside of class? Credit-bearing courses are designed to mirror Tulane undergraduate courses and have assignments outside of class. The amount of daily homework varies among courses and may take up to several hours per day, but previous pre-college students have found these assignments manageable and rewarding. Most enrichment courses do not require students to complete additional work outside of class, although Newcomb Summer Session may require reading outside of class. What is a typical pre-college academic day like? Students attend class in the morning and afternoon with a break for lunch in between. College credit courses consist of class lectures in the morning and lab/studio in the afternoon. College workshops are offered before classes for credit-bearing students. Enrichment courses often include weekly field excursions related to the academic content of the course. What is the university's policy regarding participants with disabilities? It is our goal to offer universally accessible programming. If you anticipate needing any type of reasonable accommodation or have questions about accessibility, please contact our office at 504-314-7619 or summer@tulane.edu in advance of your participation or visit. How do I order a transcript? The Tulane University Registrar's Office maintains the official records & transcripts for Tulane University. Pre-college alumni may order electronic and/or mailed transcripts through the Order a Transcript page on the registrar's website. Students & alumni wishing to pick-up transcripts personally may do so at the Office of the Registrar, 110 Gibson Hall. Application FAQ Do I need to complete and submit any documents or letters of recommendation in order to be accepted into a Pre-College Summer Program? All students who wish to apply will need to complete an online application starter in order to access the student application portal. Application requirements vary depending on the program to which you apply. All submitted materials must be in the English language. Middle school applications are considered complete upon submission of the application starter. High school enrichment applications require a copy of a recent report card and an essay explaining interest in the selected courses. High school credit-bearing applications require a copy of a full high school transcript, an essay explaining interest in the selected courses, and a teacher recommendation. English language proficiency is required for admission to Tulane Pre-College Programs. TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test scores are required if you are not a native speaker of English. International students applying to on-campus programming are also required to upload a scanned copy of their passport. When will I be notified of my acceptance into a Tulane Pre-College program? Admissions decisions are completed on a rolling basis with priority given to students who submit their application before the priority deadline of February 12, 2021. Notification of acceptance will be sent out via email and listed in your Green Wave portal. Please note that it can take up to two weeks to receive an admission decision. Can my student register and participate in multiple sessions? Yes. If a program offers this option, students are welcome to attend more than one course or session. There are additional fees for subsequent sessions. What happens if a course that my student was enrolled in is canceled? We will contact you prior to the start of the program to discuss options. If we cannot find another course that works for you, we will refund any registration deposit and tuition. Do I need to complete and submit any registration forms once I have been accepted? Yes. After the deposit has been paid, students and their families will receive information about enrollment next steps via email and in the student and parent portals. Do you offer financial aid? Tulane Pre-College has a limited number of need-based scholarships for admitted students. Applicants must first be admitted to Tulane Pre-College to be considered for financial aid. Scholarships are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. Each application is evaluated independently. Can out-of-state students and international students apply to Tulane Pre-College Summer Programs? Yes! We accept students from all over the United States and the world! Admitted Students FAQ How do I pay my tuition balance? All payments must be made through the student or parent portal. Please contact the Tulane Pre-College office with questions about tuition and payments at 504-314-7619 or summer@tulane.edu. Will I need to purchase any supplies? All course supplies and materials are included with the cost of the program. All course specific materials will be shipped to your address. Costs for programs may vary depending on the supplies needed for certain courses. How to I get my Tulane username and email? Upon enrollment into a program, students will receive an email from Tulane Technology Services with their Tulane ID number, Gibson Online username, and their Tulane email information (Wavemail). Students will receive a separate email with their temporary passwords and instructions to change their passwords. These emails will be sent to the primary email listed on your Tulane Pre-College application. Who should I contact during the program if I have questions? The Pre-College office is your main point of contact. The Tulane Pre-College office is open from 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Monday - Friday. You can reach us at summer@tulane.edu or (504) 314-7619. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University