Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session MyYSS Courses & Programs Courses at Yale Yale Summer Online Yale x Flatiron School Web Development Bootcamp Certificate Programs for International Students Summer Drama Program Yale Writers' Workshop Yale Young Writers' Workshop Programs Abroad Dates & Costs Dates & Deadlines How to Pay Tuition, Fees & Policies Financial Assistance Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Admitted Students Students in New Haven Summer Session Tutoring Changes & Withdrawals Student Handbook Grades and Transcripts About YSS FAQs Contact Yale Summer Session Enter your keywords Visiting College Students You are here Home / Apply / Visiting College Students / Visiting College Students Application Requirements Please refer to Dates & Costs for all of the relevant deadlines. All supporting documentation must be received on or before the application deadline. Below the requirement list, we provde further explanation about some of the requirements. The following materials are required for visiting college students: Online application Your academic transcript from your current college or university. Note: Be sure to read about Yale Summer Session's immunization requirements for students in in-person courses. Visiting College Students Take challenging courses for credit with top Yale faculty. Learn More Academic Information for Visiting College Students You'll select your program of study or courses at the time of application in the online application. Once admitted to a course, you will receive a grade unless you either drop the course or withdraw by filling out a form online. Two courses per session is the maximum enrollment if you opt to take Yale courses for credit. Academic Transcripts An unofficial transcript or academic record is required as part of the application to Yale Summer Session. Visiting college students should submit a transcript of colleges/universities attended. All first year students should submit a high school transcript in addition to their college transcript. The online application enables applicants to upload an unofficial copy of their academic transcript. All academic transcripts must show the name of the institution, dates of enrollment, and the subjects or courses taken, together with the units of credit or time allotted to each subject and the final grade. Applications are evaluated holistically; therefore, we do not have a GPA requirement. Question: Please contact us if you have further questions about attending Yale Summer Session! Yale Summer Session 2022 Date: Session A: May 30 - July 1, 2022 Session B: July 4 - August 5, 2022 Apply Yale College Students Visiting College Students Visiting International Students Pre-College Students Beyond College Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 4th Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-2430 Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact MyYSS Resources For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Faculty Yale Academic Advisors Residential Staff Contact Summer Session Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsYale Summer Session New HavenYale Summer Session OnlineYale Summer Programs AbroadSummer Drama ProgramCertificate Programs for International StudentsYale Writers' WorkshopWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in