Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Contact Us About Us Courses Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Calendar Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty Registration Tulane Undergraduates Spring Scholars International Students High School Students Visiting Students Campus Life Minors, Institutes and Special Programs Undergraduate Research Student Services Academic Support Resources Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / About Us / Financial Aid Financial Aid If you are interested in using Financial Aid to take a NTC Summer School course, please contact the Financial Aid Office at finaid@tulane.edu or 504-865-5723. In addition to the Tulane University Financial Aid Office, departments within Newcomb-Tulane College are also able to offer financial assistance with your summer plans: Newcomb-Tulane College Grants Newcomb-Tulane College awards $100,000 annually to full-time undergraduate students. Applications for summer internship funding are only considered during March and April. NTC's Dean Grants sponsored by CELT A number of Dean's Grants have been sponsored by Tulane's Center for Engaged Learning and Teaching and are dedicated to funding summer internship costs of travel, housing, and transportation. All students are eligible to apply for up to $1,000. David Cameron Taylor Memorial Summer Travel and Enrichment Program The David Cameron Taylor Memorial Summer Travel and Enrichment Program, established by J. Edward Taylor ’42, M.D., offers male-identified undergraduates the opportunity to travel to consult scholarly materials or undertake unusual and enriching intellectual experiences. Students may apply for up to $1,000 for domestic travel, or up to $1,500 for international travel. Regarding grants for male-identified students: The endowments funding these programs were established under the former Tulane College and Newcomb College. For more information: college.tulane.edu/enrichment/grants. Newcomb-Tulane College Summer Research Program Explore areas of interest by working alongside faculty in those fields or conducting independent research during summer break. The NTC Summer Research Program offers routes for students to choose from. The following are two of the four routes that include summer research funds. The Gordon Summer Fellowship The Gordon Summer Fellowship awards $4,000 to select students who create an independent, innovative summer project that supports intellectual and personal growth. This fellowship is the largest grant given by Newcomb–Tulane College. The grant funds projects with clear intellectual and academic merit, sound budgets, and ambitious impacts. Students within all five colleges of Newcomb-Tulane College are eligible to apply. The Jean Danielson Memorial Scholarship “Dean Jean,” as Dr. Jean Danielson was affectionately known, devoted her career to teaching and mentoring students as they sought challenging opportunities inside and outside the classroom. To honor her legacy, The Office of Academic Enrichment invites rising sophomore, junior and senior students to apply for funds for a research or other field experience that shares Professor Danielson’s commitment to living a life of purpose and intellectual vigor. For more information: undergrad-research.tulane.edu/explore/summer-research-program/. Center for Academic Equity Summer Grants and Fellowships The Center for Academic Equity can support you during your summer if you are pursing original undergraduate research, a short-term study abroad experience, summer school at Tulane, or an unpaid internship. We offer a variety of grants, scholarships, or stipends to cover associated expenses. Supporting these opportunities is important to the Center, as we believe the hands-on experiences can provide you with windows into future careers and prepare you for employment and graduate school admissions. If you are rewarded a summer grant or fellowship, you will reflect on and summarize your experience by presenting at the annual Tulane Idea Symposium. Tulane Summer School Scholarship If you require an additional course to keep abreast of your four-year graduation goals you may apply for a scholarship to Tulane University Summer School. This scholarship includes the cost of tuition for one course, any co-requisite labs, and course fees. However, it does not cover the cost of books and other non-tuition expenses such as Reily Student Recreation Center membership etc. All full-time continuing Newcomb-Tulane College students within the Center for Academic Equity cohort, regardless of discipline or major, may apply. In your application, you must demonstrate that the course is an essential component of your major course of study and that you need this course to meet your graduation goals. Summer Research Fellowship The Center for Academic Equity will award undergraduate research summer fellowships to outstanding applicants across any field of study at Tulane University. To be considered for a fellowship you must meet the minimum 2.5 GPA requirement, complete the application, and agree to participate in the annual Tulane Idea Symposium. All full-time continuing Newcomb-Tulane College students within the Center for Academic Equity cohort, regardless of discipline or major, may apply. Previous research experience is not required. Summer Unpaid Internship Stipend If you are applying for unpaid internships, you may request funding to cover living expenses. To be considered for this award, you must complete the application, have a minimum 2.5 GPA, show proof you have been accepted or are applying to an uncompensated internship, and agree to participate in the Idea Symposium. Your award, if received, is dependent on your securing the internship outlined in this application. The Center will distribute stipends in increments throughout the summer, and each installment is contingent on being in good standing with the internship program. All full-time continuing Newcomb-Tulane College students within the Center for Academic Equity cohort, regardless of discipline or major, may apply. Summer Study Abroad Grant If you need bridge funds to support a summer study abroad experience you may apply for a grant from the Center for Academic Equity. Applicants must apply and be accepted to a study abroad experience through Tulane University’s study abroad department. To be considered, you must demonstrate the need for funding to participate in this experience. Applications must include a description explaining the connection between your proposed study abroad experience and your academic goals. You will present a summary of your study abroad experience at the Center for Academic Equity’s Research Colloquium in the fall semester. For more information: academic-equity.tulane.edu/resources/funding/summer-grants-fellowships. Link to Tulane Home Page Summer School Newcomb-Tulane College Mussafer Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.314.2669 Maps & Directions Contact Us FAQ School of Professional Advancement Newcomb-Tulane College Pre-College Programs News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University