Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer 2022 Columbia Summer 2022 Menu Overview Important Dates Arts and Humanities Economics and Finance Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences Social Justice and Public Policy New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Economics and Finance During Columbia Summer Session, students gain access to eminent Columbia scholars and the opportunity to learn from respected experts in the fields of economics, finance, banking, technology, and marketing. Through in-class learning and a rich co-curricular program, students gain real-world insights and practical experience, and are able to expand their network in the city that is home to the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, and where more than 50 Fortune 500 companies are headquartered. Last year, the Summer Session offered nearly 20 courses, in subjects including Corporate Finance and Financial Accounting, taught by Columbia Business School faculty Amir Ziv, Professor of Professional Practice in Accounting; and Corporate Finance, taught by Daniel Wolfenzon, the Stefan H. Robock Professor of Finance and Economics. Summer 2022 courses are being added to the Directory of Classes on a rolling basis. Please check back frequently for updates. Registration opens March 1. Contact Us Stay in-the-know about the Summer 2022 application, registration dates, and course listings by signing up for updates here: Request Information Receive updates and information about the application. Sign Up Here Contact An Advisor Speak With a Non-Degree Admissions Counselor. 212-854-9666 summersessions@columbia.edu Registration Information Registration for Summer 2022 courses is now open. Are you a high school student? Specific information about programs for High School Students can be found here. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy