Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Pre-College offers several courses and fields of study under the Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute (TSEI). These courses give college-bound middle and high school students a transformative educational experience and a taste of college life at a renowned university. Students can explore a wide range of subjects, engage with their instructors, and live and study alongside fellow participants who are similarly interested in better understanding the complexities of our ever-evolving world. Explore diverse topics and grow as a scholar, writer, and thinker this summer. The learning environment and structure of these courses give students the opportunity to delve deep into various issues, going far beyond the typical middle and high school curriculum. Students will develop the critical thinking skills and interdisciplinary understanding that are essential for success in college and beyond. Program Highlights Diverse academic exploration Flexibility to explore subjects without the added pressure of final grades Learn from instructors who are experts in their fields Living in the heart of New Orleans Develop skills in writing, research, and leadership Reasons to Choose Tulane Pre-College's TSEI Courses Our enrichment courses are centered around subjects that students may want to explore in their high school or college careers. By exploring these subjects, students will gain a better sense of the world and grow as a global citizen. Develop your writing and research ability this summer and gain in-demand skills in creative problem solving, communication, research, and leadership through a diverse portfolio of subjects. In addition to classes, students participate in a variety of programs, activities, and excursions designed to prepare them for college life. Students who participate in our residential session have the opportunity to live together in an undergraduate residence hall on campus, enjoy Tulane facilities, engage with their instructors, and meet other pre-college students from around the country and the globe. Courses in the Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute The Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute offers enrichment (noncredit) courses in a wide range of academic disciplines within both humanities and STEM fields. All courses give middle and high school students the opportunity to explore area of study and get an exciting glimpse of academic and residential life at a top-ranked university. Students enrolled in these enrichment courses participate in a variety of classwork, activities, and excursions designed to provide a challenging and engaging academic experience. Tulane Pre-College offers on-campus and online enrichment courses. On-campus courses are one week in length, and online courses run for two weeks. High school students can opt into a two-week residential experience, as well, and take two courses during their session. View All Enrichment Courses How to Apply Frequently Asked Questions Who will be teaching my class? Distinguished instructors who are experts in their field. Can I take more than one course? Students who wish to take multiple courses can enroll in additional sessions. Will there be tests and assignments? Enrichment courses do not have graded tests or assignments and generally do not require work outside of class. Will I receive college credit? Enrichment courses do not earn credit. Do I need experience to enroll in a class? The critical factor is that you are motivated and interested in learning about the subject. What supplies do I need to bring? All supplies are included in the enrichment program. Mysteries of Medicine “I am going to be a doctor” ... Ok, what type? From diagnosis to treatment, students will explore the complexity of modern medicine and the different medical specialties that intricately work together to solve each patient’s medical mystery. Through case studies, guest speakers, and field observations, students will develop a better understanding about what it means to “be a doctor.” They will be challenged to use their knowledge to diagnosis and prescribe treatments to their own medical mystery. NASA’s ASTRO CAMP® - Roving Mars Is Mars safe for humans? Students will explore how astronautical engineers design robots to discover the suitability of taking humans to Mars. As students investigate the challenges NASA engineers face, they will learn how to program and build LEGO MINDSTORMS robots to successfully build rovers and navigate a simulated Mars environment. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University