Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Adults and Professionals: Registered Students Adults and Professionals Menu Overview Admissions Deadlines Application Requirements Qualifications Policies Contacts Tuition & Fees Student Life Campus Resources Admitted Students Registration Procedures Registered Students Housing FAQ Contact Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Adults & Professionals Adults & Professionals| Admitted Students Registered Students After Registration After registration, follow these important steps to ensure you have access to the full Columbia student experience. Setting up your LionMail Account Each registered student is required to open a LionMail email account and to check for email regularly. To open a LionMail email account, go to uni.columbia.edu. A student's LionMail email address is based on the University Network ID (UNI) assigned to the student. Students are required to use a Columbia UNI to access the University's electronic services such as email from instructors and campus offices. Student account information, including monthly billing statements, is available online only and through a student's LionMail account. Preparing for courses CourseWorks@Columbia the online site used by many instructors for posting electronic course materials and class discussion boards. You will also find a syllabus and a list of any required textbooks on this site. If you want to buy your books on campus, you can visit the University Bookstore. Obtaining a Columbia ID Card ID Center 210 Kent Hall 212-854-7225 idcard@columbia.edu ID cards are required for use of the libraries, facilities and may be required for evening entrance to some campus buildings. Columbia University ID cards also provide free admittance to many museums in New York City and discounts on purchases in many local stores. To obtain an ID submit your photo here. Your ID will be ready for pickup in the ID Center (210 Kent Hall) during the first week of classes. Familiarize Yourself with Campus Resources and Policies The Office of Student Life and Alumni Relations (SLAR) strives to be your primary source for answers to your academic questions, including those concerning policies, procedures and requirements. In addition, SLAR can help you with: Academic Resources Counseling and Psychological Services Grading Policies and Procedures Health Services International Students and Scholars Office Office of Disability Services Student Financial Services Transcripts University Resources Add/Drop Students can make changes to their schedule free of charge on the second, third, fourth, and fifth days of each session. This timeframe is referred to as the Change of Program Period. Students who wish to add or drop a course during this timeframe can do so by logging on to SSOL during their registration appointment times. Dropping an individual course after change of program period There is no refund of tuition for individual courses dropped after the last day of the change-of-program period. If you wish to drop a course during this timeframe, you must complete an add/drop form. Important: Failure to attend classes or notification submitted only to the instructor does not constitute dropping a course and will result in a mark of UW (Unofficial Withdrawal) for the course and full tuition will be charged. Refund, Drop and Pass/Fail Deadlines See all deadlines on the Calendars page. Withdrawals The University defines withdrawing as dropping one’s entire program of courses (to 0 points) in any given term. Students who wish to withdraw must notify the School in writing by following the necessary withdrawal procedures. Canceling Your Enrollment in the Summer Sessions Withdrawal Process & Tution Refund The University uses the term withdraw to formally indicate that a student has dropped or will drop all courses for a given term. Withdrawing from the university differs from dropping one or several classes within a given term, because as long as a student retains at least one class, he or she is still considered to be registered for that term. Students who plan to withdraw from any of the summer sessions should carefully read all of the information below concerning financial considerations, the withdrawal procedure, and tuition refunds. Financial Considerations Withdrawal Fee Students who drop their entire academic program during and after the Change of Program Period will be charged a $75 withdrawal fee. The $75 withdrawal fee is not applied to students withdrawing prior to the start of each session. Tuition Refunds Tuition for courses dropped during the Change of Program Period is refunded in full. After the last day of the change-of-program period, refunds are granted only when students withdraw by dropping all of their courses in a given session. When a student withdraws from all of their courses after the change-of-program period, the University retains a percentage of the remaining tuition as indicated in the withdrawal schedules below that the student remains registered. See the Calendar for the change-of-program periods for each session. Any adjustment of the tuition that the student has paid or still owes is reckoned from the date on which the Office of Student Affairs, 203 Lewisohn, receives the student's written notification (see How to Withdraw, below). Failure to attend classes or notification submitted only to instructors does not constitute formal withdrawal and may result in the student receiving a grade of F. Fee Refunds Fees such as the student activities fee, University facilities fee, course fees, and late fees are non-refundable if the withdrawal takes place after the Change of Program period. If the withdrawal takes place before or during the Change of Program period, these fees are refunded in full. The one-time document fee, application fee, and the Columbia Health Fee are non-refundable. Withdrawal Statement on Transcript A withdrawal statement is added to the academic transcript for each term a student withdraws from the University. How to Withdraw A student in good academic standing who is not subject to disciplinary action may be permitted to withdraw at any time during the session up until the last day of classes (see Calendar). Please follow the instructions below for your respective school: General Studies Consult with your academic advisor and review the GS semester withdrawal/leave of absence policy here. Complete the withdrawal/leave of absence request form found on the page linked above. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Complete the withdrawal process with the Office of Student Affairs (107 Low Library). Special Note for GSAS Students Taking Summer Sessions Courses Students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences who are recipients of Columbia University fellowships are advised that if they drop any Summer course or withdraw from a session, fellowship funds covering the tuition for that course or courses will be canceled, and the student will be responsible for payment of tuition charges incurred, as indicated in the schedules below. Columbia College, SEAS Consult with your advising dean in the Berick Center for Student Advising. Advising Dean signs Approval to Withdraw Form (click here). Student fills out Summer Non-SPS Withdrawal Request Student Form and uploads signed approval. Student receives confirmation from spsadvising@columbia.edu. Barnard College Consult with your Barnard Class Dean Barnard Class Dean signs Approval to Withdraw form (click here). Student fills out Summer Non-SPS Withdrawal Request Student Form and uploads signed approval. Student receives confirmation from spsadvising@columbia.edu. School of the Arts Consult with your SOA Office of Student Affairs. Student Affairs signs Approval to Withdraw form (click here). Student fills out Summer Non-SPS Withdrawal Request Student Form and uploads signed approval. Student receives confirmation email from spsadvising@columbia.edu. All Other Students Fill out a Notice of Withdrawal form. Receive confirmation email from sps-studentwithdrawals@columbia.edu. Tuition Refunds Students must choose to receive automatic refunds. Default participation status depends on a student's school. To opt into or out of automatic refunds, a student should log in to Student Services Online (SSOL) and select "Refunds" from the menu and follow the instructions. General Studies and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences students are not currently eligible for automatic refunds. These students should refer to the "Automatic Refund Options" page of Student Services Online. The University's preferred method of refund distribution is through direct deposit. Students can log into SSOL and click on "Direct Deposit" to set up transfer of funds to a U.S. checking or savings account. Click here for more guidance on how to do this. Refund checks for students who have not signed up for direct deposit are sent to the student's local address. To check their student account balance, students can log into Student Services Online (SSOL)and click on "Account Detail and E-Billing" and then "View Student Account Detail." If there is a valid credit on the account that is not based on anticipated credits, the refund will generally be processed within 48-hours of the credit appearing. If the credit is based on anticipated credits for financial aid, scholarships, or the payment plan, a refund will not be processed until the funds have actually arrived and been posted to the student account. For additional details regarding refunds please see Policy on Student Account Credit Balances and Refunds. 12-Week Sessions Withdrawals received will be refunded First Week 100% Second Week 90% Third Week 80% Fourth Week 70% Fifth Week 60% Sixth Week 50% Seventh Week 40% After Seventh Week 0% 9-Week Sessions Withdrawals received will be refunded First Week 100% Second Week 80% Third Week 70% Fourth Week 60% Fifth Week 50% Sixth Week 40% After Sixth Week 0% 5-Week and 6-Week Sessions Withdrawals received will be refunded First Week 100% Second Week 60% Third Week 50% After Third Week 0% 4-Week Sessions Withdrawals received will be refunded First Week 100% Second Week 50% After Second Week 0% Refund schedule for courses that are less than four weeks In order to receive a full tuition refund, students must notify the Summer Sessions Office of their intention to withdraw by 4:00 p.m. on the day of the second class meeting. Students who withdraw after the second class meeting are not eligible for a refund and will be responsible for full tuition and fees. Important: Failure to attend classes or notification submitted only to the instructor does not constitute dropping a course and will result in a mark of UW (Unofficial Withdrawal) for the course and full tuition will be charged. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy