Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Columbia Summer 2022 Columbia Summer 2022 Menu Overview Important Dates Arts and Humanities Economics and Finance Pre-medical Studies and the Sciences Social Justice and Public Policy New York City Is Your Classroom This Summer Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Arts and Humanities The Columbia University Summer Session offers more than 50 courses in the arts and humanities for anyone at any level for students, and for professionals, at any stage in their careers. From expert instruction at Columbia’s Morningside Heights campus to the renowned cultural institutions and performance spaces of New York City, students can learn, explore, and experience the energy of the city through a diverse co-curricular program. Arts in the Summer courses are taught by School of the Arts graduate faculty and Summer Session students are welcome to extend their learning by visiting New York’s landmark cultural sites—1,000+ art galleries, 300+ films, 80 television shows, 40+ theaters—and through university-run field trips and activities. With mini-tracks in Drama & Theatre, Film, Creative Writing, and Visual Arts, the City of New York can be your studio for refining your craft, deepening your understanding of classical art and literature, or exploring a new interest. To explore course options, please check the Directory of Courses for updates, as Summer 2022 courses are being added on a rolling basis. Registration opens on March 1. Contact Us Stay in-the-know about the Summer 2022 application, registration dates, and course listings by signing up for updates here: Request Information Receive updates and information about the application. Sign Up Here Contact An Advisor Speak With a Non-Degree Admissions Counselor. 212-854-9666 summersessions@columbia.edu Registration Information Registration for Summer 2022 courses is now open. Are you a high school student? Specific information about programs for High School Students can be found here. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy