Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Summer Sessions | Courses | Drama and Theatre Arts Back to Subject Areas Contact Information Admissions/Advising 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu https://sps.columbia.edu/admissions/visiting-students/contact Drama and Theatre Arts The "New York Theatre Event" course has been developed by the Oscar Hammerstein II Center for Theatre Studies. Explore the elements involved in the creation of theatre today in the historic heart of American theatre: New York City. The core elements of theatrical craft are discussed: playwriting, directing, acting, design and producing. We’ve established a simple application process for courses offered by the School of the Arts this summer, including courses in Drama and Theatre Arts. Please visit Arts in the Summer with the School of the Arts for details. Summer 2022 Session Information SESSION A (First Half Term) courses are May 23–July 1, 2022 SESSION B (Second Half Term) courses are July 5–August 12, 2022 SESSION X (Full Term) courses are May 23–August 12, 2022 Courses Select Method of Instruction Select Session Expand All There were no courses found matching those criteria. 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy