Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Newcomb Summer Session Newcomb Summer Session is a selective pre-college program designed to educate students for gender equity, offered by Newcomb Institute of Tulane University. Students entering their sophomore, junior, or senior year of high school will get a preview of the college classroom while forming a strong community centered on exploring gender issues and social change. Educating undergraduates for gender equity in the 21st century. Newcomb Summer Session is designed to inspire students to end gender inequality in their generation. With more students joining the public conversation on how gender affects our world—from the “confidence gap” to the #MeToo Movement—Newcomb Summer Session empowers students to put feminist ideas into social action. Through discussion-based seminars, workshops, and collaborative projects, students learn strategies for taking on leadership roles in and beyond the classroom, finding a public voice, tackling real-world issues, and strengthening college applications. Program Highlights Hands-on coursework Learn from talented faculty in the heart of New Orleans Explore potential careers Courses Newcomb Summer Session offers courses offers on-campus and online courses. Each course features a mixture of seminar discussions and collaborative projects. On-campus courses are one week in length, and students can opt into a two-week residential experience to take two courses. Online courses run for two weeks. Students may take any course or combination of courses; all courses work synergistically to deepen students’ understanding of gender, leadership, and social change. See more about our courses here. 2022 Newcomb Summer Session On-campus course offerings: Dismantling Rape Culture (June 21-24) Reconstructing Civility (June 27 - July 1) Women’s Advocacy (June 21-24) Online course offerings: Decolonizing Feminisms (July 18-29) Dismantling Rape Culture (July 5-15) Applying to Newcomb Summer Session A completed application consists of an essay and current report card. Limited needs-based scholarships are available, with priority given to Louisiana residents. In order to be considered for our scholarship opportunities, you must submit both your course selections and your scholarship application by the financial aid application deadline. If you need assistance completing your application or have questions about scholarships, email summer@tulane.edu for more information. Apply Now Course Descriptions Meet Our Faculty Gabe Christian-Solá Reconstructing Civility Gabe Christian-Solá is the Senior Program Coordinator for Student Engagement. They work with NI initiatives such as PLEN, Newcomb Mentoring Program, and specifically work to recruit gender minority and underrepresented populations at Tulane University. Gabe is originally from San Juan, Puerto Rico and moved to Massachusetts to pursue degrees in Art History, French, and Education. After graduating with a Masters in Teaching from Smith College in 2016, Gabe moved to New Orleans and began organizing with Congress de Jornaleros and facilitating workshops with the Center for Ethical Living and Social Justice Renewal. Prior to joining NI, Gabe worked as a Trainer at The Posse Foundation, where they recruited, trained, and supported students in their bid to navigate higher education and pursue their goals. As a lifelong educator, Gabe has been passionate about supporting and providing guidance to students around the college application process, how to successfully transition into college, and their matriculation into the workforce or advanced degrees. Gabe proudly identifies as a Latinx, queer, trans person and uses they/them pronouns. In their free time, they enjoy working on their watercolor illustrations, playing with their puppy, Willa, and FaceTiming their family in Puerto Rico as often as possible. Julie Henriquez Aldana, Ph.D. Reconstructing Civility Julie Henriquez Aldana serves as an Administrative Assistant Professor of Women’s Leadership and Director of Student Leadership and Engagement for the Newcomb Institute. She earned a B.S. in International Trade and Finance (2003), M.S. in Human Resource Education (2005), and a Ph.D. in Human Resource Education with a concentration in Human Resource and Leadership Development (2017) from Louisiana State University. Julie’s dissertation research focused on the experience of Latina faculty as they navigate the tenure process, specifically on the role of engagement in successfully achieving tenure. As a Latina and emerging Human Resource Development and Leadership scholar, Julie’s research interests focus on multicultural leadership, cultural competence and organizational culture in the workplace. Julie has presented her research at regional and national conferences, including the Association of College and University Housing Officers – International (ACUHO-I), NASPA, and the American Association of Blacks in Higher Education (AABHE) annual conferences. She is a member of the American Educational Research Association (AERA), and serves as the Louisiana State representative for the NASPA Region III Latinx Knowledge Community. Jacquelyne Thoni Howard, Ph.D. Decolinzing Feminisms Jacquelyne Thoni Howard is the Manager of Technology Initiatives at Newcomb Institute. She has a Ph.D. in U.S. History from Fordham University. Her background includes digital humanities, online education, and instructional technology. Jacque is also a historian of Borderlands history who works at the intersection of the gender, family, and colonial cultures. In her current project, she examines the experiences of women and families in the French Lower Louisiana Borderlands. Jacque has taught the history of gender, history of race and empire, digital scholarship practices, and the history of science and technology as the main themes in several undergraduate courses. These courses include U.S. History to 1865, U.S. History Since 1865, Western Civilization I, History of Modern Europe, Understanding Historical Change - U.S. History. Hannah Knipp Dismantling Rape Culture Hannah Knipp is a social worker with research interests in sexual violence prevention, social-emotional learning, sexual health, and children and families. She grew up in Fort Worth, Texas and attended Texas Christian University. During this time, Hannah volunteered as a Rape Crisis Interventionist and interned as a case manager at a local housing program for people living with HIV/AIDS. In 2011, Hannah relocated to New Orleans and spent four years teaching early elementary school at a local charter school. Working as an educator within the local school system inspired her to return to her roots of social work and in 2016, Hannah completed her Master of Social Work at Louisiana State University. During her program, she worked with children and adolescents in an inpatient hospital setting. After graduation, Hannah worked for three years at a local charter school as the Social and Emotional Learning Coordinator, where she developed and implemented a school-wide SEL curriculum with grades PK-4. During this time, Hannah became a licensed clinical social worker. Aidan Smith, Ph.D. Women's Advocacy Aidan Smith is the Director of Newcomb Scholars Program and teaches its first year seminar, The History and Philosophy of Higher Education: The Role of College Women. She earned her bachelor's degree at Barnard College and holds a master's degree in mass communication from the University of Florida. She completed her doctorate in American Studies at the University of Hawaii in 2013. She also coordinates Newcomb’s feminist film initiatives. Her first book, Gender, Heteronormativity, and the American Presidency, was published by Routledge in October 2017 Lauren Wethers Reconstructing Civility Lauren Wethers is the Student Leadership and Engagement Program Coordinator. She works with all of the Newcomb student organizations, coordinates the Big/Little Sister mentorship program, and assists in creating leadership development programming for students. Originally from the Saint Louis metro-east, Lauren moved to New Orleans to attend Tulane. She graduated magna cum laude in 2015 with a B.A. in English and Spanish and earned her M.A. in English in 2016. Prior to joining NI, Lauren worked for Tulane Orientation for two years and was an active leader of nine different student organizations. Her contributions to the Tulane community were recognized with the Dean Donald R. Moore Crest Award (given to one undergraduate student annually) and the Center for Public Service Outstanding Student Leader Award in 2015. She began her current position after spending one year working as the Student Leadership and Engagement graduate assistant. Lauren is a member of ACPA. Kimberly Wu, MPH Dismantling Rape Culture Kim Wu is a doctoral student in the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. She is a dedicated community health professional from New York City, and an avid crafter. Kim has over 10 years of experience in education, community centered health programs management, grassroots development, social justice, and capacity building to foster cross-sector collaboration in projects of health promotion, sexual health education, and mental health. After completing her Master of Public Health from University of California, Berkeley in 2018, she has channeled her interest in public health and education to work on a national project with the Centers for Disease Control’s Division of Adolescent and School Based Health, supporting major school districts across the country in their efforts to develop safe and inclusive school environments to promote adolescent well-being and health. Her research interest includes exploring innovative methodologies that value community participation and centers the voices of those historically marginalized. She has a specialized interest in the role of culture and local knowledge, and how partnerships can be developed to value and respect the experiences at the local level. Frequently Asked Questions Can I take more than one course? Yes! Students can attend any combination of the four sessions. Which course(s) should I choose? All Newcomb Summer Session courses foster leadership, collaboration, and college-level reading and discussion. Will I receive college credit? Newcomb Summer Session does not offer college credit. You will receive a certificate of completion. Who is eligible to apply? Rising high school sophomore, juniors, and seniors in good academic standing are eligible. Is there homework? Students will be expected to read approximately 50-100 pages of provided text before the program begins. There will be additional reading assignments throughout the program; expect around 30 pages per night. I am a male or non-binary student. Can I apply? Yes! Newcomb Summer Session welcomes all students who are motivated to study gender equity studies, feminist ideas, and social change. For More Information For more information, visit Newcomb Summer Session or contact Laura Wolford, Associate Director of the Newcomb Institute: lwolford@tulane.edu. “I had such a great time at Newcomb. It was amazing how much I learned in just one week, and how much my confidence improved as well. It’s still going to take some active practice of the leadership skills I’ve learned, and a serious effort to try to unlearn all of those gender biases that society has ingrained in me, but I truly believe that this program was the kickstart I needed to shift my focus to empowering women, myself included.” - Catie Mae Carey, 2018 Newcomb Summer Session student "Newcomb Summer Session completely sent me head over heels for Tulane. Ultimately my experience at Newcomb became the deciding factor in my decision to apply to Tulane." - Hannah Pedersen, Tulane class of 2024 “I had such an amazing experience over the summer and it really solidified for me that I want to be a student of Tulane University. I feel ever fortunate for the formation of ideas and knowledge that the program fostered. I never would have known that Tulane is where I want to be had it not been for the time I spent in the classroom with other inspiring women.” - Artesia Harrison, 2018 Newcomb Summer Session “I met people like me who want to make a change, grow together to create conversations and ideas that will last for years and maybe make a big change one day.” - Clara Gibbs, 2017 and 2018 Newcomb Summer Session “My daughter really enjoyed the whole experience and learned so much. It was wonderful seeing her so passionate about what she was learning. This had a lasting impression on her development as a person and academic.” - 2018 Newcomb Summer Session parent “The seminar was the highlight of my summer and made me look forward to college even more!” - 2017 Summer Session student Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University