Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Academics Academic Programs Courses Student Life Covid-19 Update Online Courses Day Sessions Residential Experience Dates and Tuition FAQ Undergraduates Apply Request Info News Visit Information For... PRE-COLLEGE Discover What Summer Can Be Tulane University understands that the world is facing some big challenges. To inspire the next generation to think, learn, act, and lead, we are offering students an opportunity to participate in Tulane Pre-College programs this summer. Tulane Pre-College offers middle and high school students the opportunity to explore their artistic, intellectual, and professional passions while experiencing college life. With both credit and enrichment options, our two-week and three-week online course sessions provide students with an introduction to Tulane University, where young minds can explore academic disciplines, build their resumes, and imagine making an impact. Our application for Summer 2022 is now open! Subscribe for updates and receive all the latest info for this summer. Apply Now Subscribe for Updates Tulane Pre-College at a Glance Online Experience Looking to learn online this year? Our online courses connect you with the experience and expertise of a leading accredited institution virtually. Learn More College Credit Courses College credit courses are selective and for rising 11th and 12th grade students seeking a challenging academic experience. Learn More Enrichment Courses Enrichment courses allow rising 6th through 12th grade students expand their academic horizons and explore academic subjects without the pressure of exams and grades. Learn More Find the Program that’s Right For You Our diverse academic programs fit a wide variety of student needs. Whether you're in middle school or high school, interested in social justice or neuroscience, we have a program for you. Explore Courses Explore Academic Programs Featured Courses in 2022 Pandemics Past and Present Dig into archival materials to reveal how systemic inequities make some communities more vulnerable to disease and economic hardships. Students will be able to contextualize the current coronavirus crisis by examining how the bubonic plague, yellow fever, influenza, AIDS, SARS also destabilized society. Electrical Engineering - Powering Energy Grids of the Future Investigate the role that engineers play in designing power grids. Students will collaboratively craft solutions to improve our currently outdated and inefficient infrastructure for a more sustainable future. Women’s Advocacy Explore persuasive communications techniques to effectively defend and advance social issues focusing on gender, politics, and advocacy work. Students will practice compelling public speaking and strategic social media practices to affect change. Sign Up to Recieve Updates for Summer 2022 Courses Request Info Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions TULANE PRE-COLLEGE Strategic Summer Programs Richardson Building, 2nd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 summer@tulane.edu 504-314-7619 APPLY NOW COURSES Academic Programs Tulane Summer Enrichment Institute Tulane Science Scholars Program Newcomb Summer Session Career Explorations in Architecture Young Public Scholars EXPERIENCE Residential Online Courses Day Session REQUEST INFO Dates and Tuition Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University