Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Visiting Students Visiting Students Menu Overview Admissions Deadlines Application Requirements Policies International Students Contacts Tuition & Fees Student Life Campus Resources Admitted Students Registration Procedures Registered Students Housing FAQ Contact Request Information Apply Request Information Apply Visiting Students Explore the city and connect with other students from across the globe in a program that fits your educational goals. The Visiting Student Program is open to undergraduates and graduates enrolled at another institution, domestic and international. The Visiting Postbaccalaureate Program is open to adults and professionals who hold a bachelor’s degree and who are not currently enrolled at another institution. Visiting students may choose from hundreds of courses to build their own academic program of study. Students receive an official Columbia University transcript and academic credit for the courses they complete, which may be used as transfer credits to their home institution (if approved). In-class instruction from top faculty alongside Columbia students provide a unique academic experience and the chance to explore new academic subject areas either to advance academic requirements or for personal enrichment. Experiential learning programs range in discipline, and include courses in art and culture; science and environment; and economics and finance, in more than 50 subject areas. Students may also receive practical experience and career coaching tailored to support your academic and professional aspirations, whether they are graduate students enrolled in a master’s degree program at another institution, or an undergraduate enrolled in a bachelor’s degree program at another institution. Academic Options Description During Courses Through the Visiting-Undergraduate and Visiting-Graduate programs, build a schedule that meets your goals from hundreds of courses offered in the summer. Session A & B Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Choose from curricula designed to prepare and focus students’ study and experience. Summer & Multi-term Options Arts in the Summer Take courses offered by the School of the Arts in Film, Writing, Visual Arts, or Theatre through a simple application process. Session A & B Attend an Info Session All Events June082022 5:30 p.m. | Info Session Understanding the Power of Postbaccalaureate Studies: from Graduate Preparation to Career Pivoting Read more Students Discuss Their Summer Experience Student Yufei Ma: Developing Transferable Educational and Professional Skills Student Madeline Morris: Preparing to Work for Stephen Colbert Contact Us Summer Study Questions 212-854-9666 summersessions [at] columbia.edu Academic Year Study Questions 212-854-9666 info [at] sps.columbia.edu Find Courses Review your course options, start your application, and apply early to be ready for registration. View Courses 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy