Skip to main content Your Options Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Calendars Events Apply Fulltext search Main navigation Your Options Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Current Columbia Students Visiting Students Adults & Professionals Pre-College Programs Courses Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Subject Areas Course Requirements Key to Course Listings FAQ Special Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Certificates and Certifications of Professional Achievement Arts in the Summer Arabic Summer Program Russian Practicum Other Programs Columbia Summer is your premier destination to study at the only Ivy League university in New York City. Columbia Engineering High School Coding Academy Summer STEM Program for High School Students Summer STEM Program for Teachers Say It Loud: Poets, Preachers, and the Politics of Black Faith May062022 05:30 pm 07:00 pm EST Miller Theatre RSVP Back to Events Say It Loud: Poets, Preachers, and the Politics of Black Faith A Performance and Public Conversation with Joshua Bennett and Saul Williams Join us for a special event: “Say It Loud: Poets, Preachers, and the Politics of Black Faith,” hosted by Josef Sorett, Chair of the Department of Religion and Professor of Religion and of African American and African Diaspora Studies at Columbia University. The evening will feature a combination of live performance and a conversation between Joshua Bennett, award-winning author and Professor of English at Dartmouth College; and Saul Williams, critically acclaimed musician, poet, and actor. They will discuss the history and cultural politics of the spoken word: examining the connections between black poetics and black preaching, religious tradition and the literary arts, and performance as a practice of freedom. Professor Sorett will teach Religion and the History of Hip Hop at the 2022 Columbia Summer Session. This event is in person and is co-sponsored by the Columbia Summer Session; the Henry Luce Foundation; the Columbia University Center on African-American Religion, Sexual Politics and Social Justice; the Columbia University Arts Initiative; Columbia University Life; the Columbia University African American and African Diaspora Studies Department; the Columbia University Institute for Religion, Culture, and Public Life; and the Columbia University Society of Fellows and Heyman Center for the Humanities. Doors open at 4:30 p.m.; Event Begins at 5:30 p.m. Please RSVP by May 5, 2022 For questions, please contact sps-events@columbia.edu. For additional information about program offerings for Columbia University Summer Sessions, please contact an Admissions counselor at 212-854-9666 or summersessions@columbia.edu. Speakers Josef Sorett, Ph.D. Josef Sorett, Ph.D. Professor of Religion and African American and African Diaspora Studies, Department of Religion, Columbia University Joshua Bennett, Ph.D. Joshua Bennett, Ph.D. Professor of English and Creative Writing, Dartmouth College Saul Williams Saul Williams Critically-acclaimed musician, poet, and actor 203 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4119 New York, NY 10027 summersessions@columbia.edu Contact us: 212-854-9666 LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram © Copyright Columbia University School of Professional Studies | Privacy Policy