Skip to Content Syracuse University | Policies Open Close primary navigation Home AboutExpand Collapse section Philosophy Contact PoliciesExpand Collapse section Academic Rules, Student Responsibilities and Services Administrative and Financial Campus Safety and Emergency Services Free Speech Employment, Workplace Rules, and Benefits Faculty, Teaching, and Research Information Technology University Facilities, Equipment, and Property University Governance, Ethics, Integrity, and Legal Compliance Charter & Governing Documents Legal Notices Policy ProcessExpand Collapse section Submitting a Proposed New or Revised University Policy Policy Advisory Committee Policy Docket Policy News Feedback Search Search People Search Syracuse University Policies Supporting a safe, respectful, and ethical living, learning, and working environment. Featured Pages About Policy Process Contact Previous slide Next slide Welcome to the official Syracuse University policies website. This site is the central repository for University-wide policies, governing documents, and important notices. If you have any questions about this site or the policies contained herein, please Contact Us. News & Headlines Important Title IX Update August 18, 2020 Dear Students, Faculty and Staff: As the fall semester gets underway—with so many changes in procedures for living and learning on campus—we would like you to be aware of important changes in the way Syracuse University must handle complaints of sexual harassment. These changes are required of all U.S. colleges and universities as part of… Information and Communication Technology Accessibility Policy Approved; Work Continues to Enhance Digital Accessibility December 1, 2017 Following months of constructive discussion and community input, the Chancellor’s Executive Team has approved a new University policy governing information technology accessibility. The Information and Communication Technology Accessibility Policy—which will be published and go into effect on Jan. 1, 2018—affirms the University’s commitment to diversity and inclusion… Read More News © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy