Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events Donate Now Current Campaigns Ever Brighter Impact Scholarships Faculty Outreach Programming Capital Enhancement Sue Miller Fund Contact Us FAQs How to Give Donate Now Current Campaigns Ever Brighter Impact Contact Us FAQs Search Donate Now Current Campaigns Ever Brighter Impact Scholarships Faculty Outreach Programming Capital Enhancement Sue Miller Fund Contact Us FAQs How to Give FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events How to Give Giving Portals Impact Campaign FAQs Contact Us Donate Now FROST Home How to Make a Gift AAA How to Make a Gift Choose the one that fits your style and interests. Your gift, whatever the amount, helps to ensure that the Frost School of Music continues to be a strong educational asset for our students and a vital resource for our community. Check or Cash The most traditional and common way to show your support is with a gift of cash. You can give a gift online, or if you would like to send a check, please make it payable to the Frost School of Music, and mail it, along with a short note stating the purpose of your gift, to the following address: Development and Alumni Relations University of Miami PO Box 025388 Miami, FL 33102-9811 Matching Gift Many companies provide matching gifts for their employees as part of that employee benefit packages. Please check to see if your employer will match your donation to the Frost School of Music. Honor and Memorial Gifts Donations may be made as a tribute in honor of someone special or in memory of a friend or family member. Please denote on your mailed donation whether your gift is in honor/memory of a special person. If using the online giving page, please fill in the appropriate information. Credit Card The easiest and most convenient way to make a contribution is by credit card. The University of Miami’s online giving page is fast, safe, and secure. The University accepts Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express. Securities Gifts of stock and bonds are welcomed at the Frost School of Music; however, these gifts require special planning and consultation with your professional financial advisor and University of Miami staff. Please contact the Frost School of Music Development Team here. Gifts of Tangible Property The University of Miami is pleased to accept gifts of tangible personal property that address a specific need and comply with the mission and policies of the University. Beginning with the donation of land by George E. Merrick, and including some recent gifts of art and musical instruments, the University has been strengthened by non-cash contributions throughout its 90-year history. Because of the unique circumstances surrounding gifts of personal property, donors are encouraged to contact the Frost School of Music Development Team here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Messinger Music Executive Building 5501 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2241 305-284-2241 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit UM Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices