Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Learn menu Home Learn@ISU Contacts Learn@ISU Frequently Asked Questions Learn@ISU New Account Request Learn@ISU Refunds, Rescheduling and Enrollment Transfers Welcome to the Learn@ISU support homepage! Learners - Quick Links General support questions - contact the Solution Center at 515.294.4000 or solution@iastate.edu. Learn@ISU Contacts - This page provides general contact information and contact information for departments on campus who have training courses in Learn@ISU. Frequently Asked Questions - Have a question? Check out this page for common questions and answers to help as you navigate the system. Learn@ISU New Account Request - New to the university? Not sure if your account is still active? Try logging into your account first, then complete this form to request a training account. Need help navigating Learn@ISU, click here to check out several tutorial videos on system navigation. Refunds, Rescheduling and Transfers - Did you purchase a course and now need to change your enrollment? Complete the webform that best fits your need found here. Department Training Coordinators - Quick Links and Resources Have a question regarding placing courses on the Master Schedule, or making changes to a course on the Master Schedule, need help with a report, viewing the training history of a learner, or anything else, email learnisu@iastate.edu. Are you responsible for managing the training records for faculty and staff and would like an easy way to see everything in one place? We can help! Please click on the link to submit a request for a FlexiGroup within Learn@ISU. Training Area Request - Are you a department training coordinator interested in using Learn@ISU for your training courses? Use this form to get the process started. NOTE - the processes below required additional security access within Learn@ISU and are not available to all users. Learn@ISU User Manual - this contains step-by-step instructions for most features in Learn@ISU, in addition to a section for learners. Department Training Coordinator Manual - this is a great resource for those adding classroom courses to the Master Schedule. Learn@ISU Courses - this is a great resource if you are adding online courses to a catalog in Learn@ISU. Adding a Course Prerequisite - do you have a course that has a prerequisite? Use this tool to help you add the appropriate prerequisite course(s) in Learn@ISU. Assessments - does your online course have an assessment you want learners to take after viewing your course? Use this tool to help you create an assessment in Learn@ISU. Waive a requirement - do you need to waive a training requirement for a learner? Use this tool to help you waive a training requirement for a learner. Catalog Manager - do you have your course created and need to add it to your department catalog? Use this tool to help you keep your course catalog up to date. FlexiGroups - do you manage a FlexiGroup and need the instructions on how to make changes to your group. Use this document to assist with all your FlexiGroup needs. Reports - do you need to run a report to check training history? Use this tool to help you run reports in Learn@ISU. Ready to return to the Learn@ISU main page, click here. Learn@ISU - Ames, Iowa 50011, (515) 294-4000, Contact Us. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.