Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University Culture of Support Where to go for help | How you can help someone | Know More | Do More | Terms and Definitions | Downloads Culture of Support Where to go for help How you can help someone Know More Do More Terms and Definitions Downloads Know more. Do more. Support more. Our Purpose MSU is striving to create a trauma informed culture and to help our community respond to survivors of relationship violence, sexual assault, sexual harassment, and/or stalking in an informed and caring way. Sometimes determining what to do next is difficult. Review the options below for which could be the most relevant to the current situation and learn what programs at MSU might be the most helpful. I’m worried about my safety. If you are in immediate danger, call 911. The university is here to help you. Please reach out to one of the organizations below - but know the decision is up to you. You know yourself and your situation best. 24/7 Crisis Hotline 517-372-6666 Crisis Chat Sexual Assault Healthcare Program Safe Place Community Support Bureau, MSU Police and Public Safety I want to talk to someone about what happened. The Center for Survivors provides free and confidential therapy, advocacy and resources to MSU and the greater Lansing community. Their telephone hotline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 517-372-6666. Crisis Chat is a text-based hotline for anyone with questions. It is available from 10 a.m.-10 p.m. ET, seven days a week. Safe Place provides services, including counseling, support groups, advocacy and shelter, to any MSU students, faculty, staff and their partners who have experienced, or are experiencing, an abusive or controlling relationship or stalking. The Employee Assistance Program is a free and confidential short-term counseling and referral service available to MSU faculty, staff, graduate assistants, retirees, and their insurance-eligible dependents who are in the state of Michigan. I want to file a report. Some incidents of relationship violence or sexual misconduct are both a violation of university policy and a crime. However, there are different processes for each. Following an incident, it is your decision as to if you want to participate in one process, both or neither. Violation of university policy The Title IX Coordinator and Office of Institutional Equity investigates violations of the MSU Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct and Title IX policy, as well as MSU’s Anti-Discrimination Policy. They also work to connect those impacted by discrimination, harassment, relationship violence, sexual misconduct and stalking to supportive resources designed to help maintain equitable access to education and employment. Crime under Michigan law The MSU Department of Police and Public Safety investigates crimes including relationship violence, sexual assault and stalking. If you contact the department, officers will discuss the possibility of continuing with a criminal investigation in a trauma-informed and victim centered approach. They can also help connect you with supportive resources. MSU has several organizations that can help you determine which path, if any, you want to take. In addition, the Center for Survivors and Safe Place have advocates that can accompany you should you choose to visit either the police or the Title IX Coordinator and Office of Institutional Equity. I’m not exactly sure what happened or what I want to do. Sometimes people have confusing experiences or experience something painful but have a hard time making sense of it. If you aren’t sure what happened but are feeling unsettled, please consider talking to someone about it. You can call the 24-hour hotline at 517-372-6666 or use a text-based hotline. In addition, MSU has several organizations that can talk to you about what happened in a safe space. Your experience is valid and you deserve support. I am looking for a list of resources. The university is here to help. MSU has several organizations that can talk to you about what happened in a safe space. How can I better support someone? One way to do this is through language. What you say can help survivors and their path toward healing. Learn more Where to go for help Center for Survivors Sexual Assault Healthcare Program Safe Place Employee Assistance Program Gender and Sexuality Campus Center Office of Institutional Equity Police and Public Safety Center for Survivors Phone 517-355-3551 24-Hour Crisis Hotline 517-372-6666 Connect with the Crisis Chat 10am-10pm daily Address Student Services Building, Suite 207 556 E. Circle Dr. East Lansing, MI 48824 The Center for Survivors provides free and confidential individualized therapy services, groups, workshops, advocacy services and resources to MSU and the greater Lansing community. Crisis Chat is a text-based hotline available to survivors and anyone with questions on how to help. It is available from 10 a.m.-10 p.m. ET, seven days a week. Learn more Sexual Assault Healthcare Program Phone 517-353-2700 Address Student Services Building, Suite 207 556 E. Circle Dr. East Lansing, MI 48824 The Sexual Assault Healthcare Program serves the entire Lansing region and provides specialized medical care services to adults who have been sexually assaulted within the last five days. It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with staff that are highly trained to provide trauma-informed care. Learn more Safe Place Phone 517-355-1100 Safe Place provides services, including counseling, support groups, advocacy and shelter, to any MSU students, faculty, staff and their partners who have experienced, or are experiencing, an abusive or controlling relationship or stalking. All services are free, confidential and available on campus. Learn more Employee Assistance Program Phone 517-355-4506 Address 479 W. Circle Dr. Linton Hall, Room 110 East Lansing, MI 48824 The Employee Assistance Program is a free and confidential short-term counseling and referral service available to MSU faculty, staff, graduate assistants, retirees, and their insurance-eligible dependents who are in the state of Michigan. They can assist those experiencing relationship conflict or abuse, sexual misconduct, trauma, stress, anxiety, depression, substance use, family challenges and grief. Learn more Gender and Sexuality Campus Center Phone 517-353-9520 Address Student Services Building, Suite 302 556 E. Circle Dr. East Lansing, MI 48824 The Gender and Sexuality Campus Center provides an affirming, empowering community for LGBTQIA2S+ individuals at MSU. Team members are trauma-informed with expertise in the unique challenges facing the LGBTQIA2S+ community regarding relationship violence and sexual misconduct. Learn more Title IX Coordinator and Office of Institutional Equity Phone number 517-353-3922 Address Olds Hall, Suite 5 408 W. Circle Dr. East Lansing, MI 48824 The Title IX Coordinator and Office of Institutional Equity responds to and investigates reports of relationship violence and sexual misconduct, including dating violence, gender-based harassment, sexual assault and stalking, under the Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Policy. The staff also work with advocates and the campus equity navigator to ensure all parties have access to confidential resources and advisers. Learn more Police and Public Safety Phone 517-355-2221 Address 1120 Red Cedar Rd. East Lansing, MI 48824 The MSU Department of Police and Public Safety Community Support Bureau has a Special Victims Unit with officers who receive specialized training to assist victims of crime through a trauma-informed and victim centered approach. Learn more Find out more Where to go for help How you can help someone Our Commitment Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student Information System D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services (CAPS) Health4U MSU Health Care Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University