Donate Now Take Our Survey Giving Toolkit Start Planning Your Scholarship Gifts from Donor-Advised Funds Sample Language for Your Will or Trust Sample Codicil For Trustees and Advisors Home Your Impact Where to Give Texas Challenge Forty Acres Scholars Program Opportunity Scholarships University Leadership Network Ways to Give Gifts That Make An Impact Now Gifts That Reduce Your Taxes Gifts That Pay You Income Gifts That Cost You Nothing Now Supporters Like You Contact Us Contact Us Donate Take Our Survey Give now from your Donor-Advised Fund Home Your Impact Where to Give Texas Challenge Forty Acres Scholars Program Opportunity Scholarships University Leadership Network Ways to Give Gifts That Make An Impact Now Gifts That Cost You Nothing Now Gifts That Pay You Income Gifts That Reduce Your Taxes Supporters Like You Giving Toolkit Start Planning Your Scholarship Gifts from Donor-Advised Funds Sample Language for Your Will or Trust Sample Codicil For Trustees and Advisors Search Search for: Supporters Like You Make All the Difference “My wife, Denise, and I believe we can help talented students reach their full potential by investing in their education through scholarships.” —Ray Nixon, supports numerous scholarships Read Supporter Stories ↓ Open a Door to the Forty Acres When you endow a scholarship, you can help The University of Texas at Austin recruit students who have leadership potential and a wide range of backgrounds, ideas and viewpoints. Your generosity will support students who will help spark the imagination, drive human discovery and transform lives on the Forty Acres and beyond. What is an endowed scholarship? Many supporters have chosen to make a lasting difference for UT students by creating an endowed scholarship. When you endow a scholarship, the initial gift amount ($100,000 or more) is invested and scholarships are granted each year from the interest earned. In this way, your impact will go on for generations to come! There are many opportunities across campus to create your endowed scholarship, which can be funded with a variety of assets given at one time or through a multi-year pledge. Contact our team today to learn more, or discover the best way to create your endowed scholarship with our Scholarship Questionnaire. “My scholarship opens so many doors for what I can accomplish at UT and beyond. I’m being given the resources to truly live up to this university’s motto — to change the world.” — Ricky Cooks Texarkana, government Texas Loves a Challenge If you have been considering a gift to support students, now is the time. You can double your impact through the Texas Challenge. Make a gift to create a scholarship endowment and it will be matched dollar-for-dollar to support high-potential Texas students from middle and low-income families. Join the Texas Challenge How You Support Students Keep Top Talent in Texas Allow UT to compete with other universities and ensure that the best and brightest become a part of Longhorn Nation. Learn More Build Brighter Futures Unlock students’ potential with exceptional experiential learning opportunities that prepare them for life after graduation. Learn More Impact Texas and Beyond Make a world-class education accessible, giving students the support they need to graduate on time and with minimal debt. Learn More Creative Ways to Make a Major Impact Gifts That Cost You Nothing Now Gifts That Pay You Income Gifts That Reduce Your Taxes Gifts That Make an Impact Now Complimentary Scholarship Planning Resources Are Just a Click Away! Learn more about creating an endowed scholarship with our free resources. Get Free Resources The content found on this site is general in nature and intended to be used for informational purposes only. It should not be relied upon as legal, tax, accounting or other professional advice. To determine how a gift or estate planning decision might affect your particular circumstances, it is expressly recommended that you consult an attorney, financial advisor or other qualified professional. The University of Texas at Austin | Tax ID: #74-6000203 | Privacy Policy We're Here to Help! Please contact us if you have any questions! We are looking forward to hearing from you. Phone: (301) XXX-XXXX Email: email@org.com Contact Us u × How is this information used? At The University of Texas at Austin, we are so appreciative of the support we receive from donors, volunteers, advocates, partners, and others like you. That is why we are committed to protecting your privacy and take steps to keep any personal information you provide confidential. You were invited to take this survey because we value your trust and confidence and sincerely would like to understand your preferences, interests, and wishes so we can be more sensitive to them. By answering these survey questions, you will help us: Reduce the amount of communications we send you; Lessen our environmental impact together; Improve the relevance of the information we send you. As a whole, your answers will help us become better stewards of donation dollars as a result of time savings and reduction of printing, mailing, and postage costs. Going forward, we will make our best attempts to use the information you provide in this survey to adjust the content of the communications we send you and the frequency with which you receive them. Please remember, you can always review our complete privacy policy and you may opt-out of receiving communications from us at any time. Thank you so much for your time, interest, and commitment to The University of Texas at Austin. You can read more about our privacy policy here. Close © 2022 MarketSmart. All rights reserved. We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to use this site, you agree to our use of cookies in accordance with our Privacy Policy. DISMISS Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. Enable All Save Settings