Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events Donate Now Current Campaigns Ever Brighter Impact Scholarships Faculty Outreach Programming Capital Enhancement Sue Miller Fund Contact Us FAQs How to Give Donate Now Current Campaigns Ever Brighter Impact Contact Us FAQs Search Donate Now Current Campaigns Ever Brighter Impact Scholarships Faculty Outreach Programming Capital Enhancement Sue Miller Fund Contact Us FAQs How to Give FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events Giving Portals Impact Campaign FAQs Contact Us Donate Now FROST Home Current Campaigns AAA Current Campaigns To donate to the Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund, please click here. For additional ways you can donate, please contact us here. Ever Brighter To achieve our highest ambition—becoming the next great American music school by 2025—the Frost School is pursuing a renewed vision that will transform the future of music education across the globe and empower the next generation of music professionals. Find out more. Frost Student Emergency Fund Some Frost undergraduate and graduate students are facing financial and personal hardship due to the COVID-19 disruption. This fund will be administered by the Dean of the Frost School of Music to help deserving Frost students bridge financial gaps. Your support will allow our school to support our most valuable asset, our students. Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund This fund awards scholarships to high-achieving and talented music students who have overcome substantial economic or educational hardships to apply to, attend, and remain at the music school. This award will thus bolster our recruitment and retention efforts while helping us to enhance a culture of inclusive excellence with our school. Frost School of Music Fund Frost School of Music needs the resources to attract, support, and retain the world’s leading artists, educators, and students. Your gift will go to transforming the lives of musicians by supporting the greatest needs. Shelly Berg Music Dean Endowment Fund In Celebration of an impactful decade of leadership in higher music education as well as the music profession at large, the annual distribution from this fund will be used to provide unrestricted support for the Frost School of Music at the discretion of the music dean. Frost Music Live Frost Music Live gives Frost students the unique opportunity to perform side-by-side with world-class guest artists in a live concert setting in front of the community at an affordable price. Donna E. Shalala MusicReach In order to provide a high-quality music education program for many of the most deserving children and youth in South Florida, funds are needed to support undergraduate scholarships, graduate student teaching assistant stipends, as well as the purchase of musical instruments and supplies. Frost Preparatory Academy Support the Frost Preparatory Program in establishing a healing community program and promoting music study. Frost Chopin Academy and Festival Donations to the Frost Chopin Academy are the primary means of offering scholarships to cover the tuition of our most talented participants who are selected from all over the globe to attend. A $1000 contribution covers all tuition costs of a student. Mancini Fellows Scholarship Fund This fund supports talented students and the mission to nurture the future of music through multi-genre professional training for its students and to impact the lives of others through inspiring community engagement programs. Choral Special Performances Fund Contributions will help bring choral music to the South Florida community and to support worthy students as they venture into the world’s choral community, attending conventions, workshops, summer internships, and international choir tours. Frost Chamber Music Program Support the new trailblazing program that places Frost as a leader on the national stage of chamber music. Funds go towards the creation of a legacy commissioning project for the faculty ensemble, Frost Chamber Players, the creation of an ensemble excellence award, internship program, patron's choice house salon concerts, and the presenting of world class ensembles. The program welcomes chair endowment and naming. Dr. Frank Cooper Featured Speaker Endowment Fund In recognition of Professor Cooper’s distinguished body of work, the endowment will support the Frost School's ongoing efforts to provide engaging lectures by experts in the field of music research who offer insights into music’s power to reflect and shape who we are as individuals and communities. The Weldon Family Endowed Music Scholarship Florida native Connie Weldon, B.M. ’53, named University of Miami Frost School of Music 1991 Distinguished Alumna, is known as the first professional female tubist in the United States. In 1957, she joined the University of Miami Frost School of Music and established a reputation as an expert brass teacher and coach. From 1972 until her retirement in 1991, Weldon was the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies at the University of Miami Frost School of Music. Frost Band of the Hour Donations help scholarships, organize Alumni bands, plan Homecoming Weekend, and preserve the rich traditions and stories that connect us across the years to the Frost Band of the Hour. Sue Miller Fund Purchasing fine and rare instruments will not only help attract brilliant musicians to Frost but also help them have performance experiences at the highest level. Help us to obtain our goal of nearly $2.7 million. Building Fund Bolstered by private support, the Frost School of Music can become the world-class music education center with state-of-the-art incubation spaces where our student musicians, visiting virtuosos, and masters will come together to collaboratively grow their craft. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Messinger Music Executive Building 5501 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2241 305-284-2241 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit UM Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices