Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subbbiss Research Home BBISS Home About About BBISS BBISS History FAQ Research Gigatechnology Infrastructure Ecology Clean Water Clean Air Global Change Food-Energy-Water Systems Sustainable Engineering Education BBISS Research Projects Proposal Resources People BBISS Team Key Affiliated Faculty Brook Byers Professors BBISS Fellows GRA Scholars Visiting Scholars & Students Students Alumni Education News Sustainability Showcase Contact Us Open Search Search Search Brook Byers Institute for Sustainable Systems HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home BBISS Home Celebrating 30 Years of Sustainability at Georgia Tech “Thirty years ago not many folks were interested or thinking about sustainability. BBISS was. At Georgia Tech, we do cover many areas in sustainability, and right now after 30 years, BBISS has the history and the ability that can provide expertise to those that are seeking solutions.” Chaouki Abdallah, Executive Vice President for Research The Brook Byers Institute for Sustainable Systems (BBISS) is one of Georgia Tech’s 10 interdisciplinary research institutes. Watch on YouTube The Brook Byers Institute for Sustainable Systems is one of Georgia Tech's ten Interdisciplinary Research Institutes. The vision for the BBISS is to create knowledge and technologies that will improve environmental, social, and economic outcomes. Our approach is to holistically integrate the disciplines of science, engineering, social science, policy, planning, design, and business into the institute’s work. While BBISS's work spans a wide range of research problems, we are particularly focused on the emerging science of Gigatechnology. Gigatechnologies are humanity's largest engineered systems in which we manipulate matter, energy, and information. Learn More Core Research Areas News Spotlight Student Team Wins Department of Energy EcoCAR Mobility Challenge A team of Georgia Tech students and faculty members has won the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) EcoCAR Mobility Challenge. The four-year… Georgia Tech Team Wins Solar Decathlon The Georgia Tech student team, "English Avenue Yellow Jackets", is the 2022 Design Challenge Residential Division Grand Winner for the Department of… Marilyn Brown Tapped as First Woman to Receive Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award Marilyn Brown is a world-leading expert on renewable energy and energy efficiency, a transformative intellectual thinker, and one of the founders of… More News » Upcoming Events Sunday June 19 Juneteenth - Campus Closed Campus will close in observance of Juneteenth National Independence Day Sunday July 3 Independence Day Observance Georgia Tech will be closed on July 4 in observance of Independence Day. Monday September 5 Labor Day - Campus Closed The Georgia Tech campus will be closed in observance of Labor Day. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN