Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Safeguard Human Health Brown will improve the indoor environment by making our campus more resistant to moisture, flooding and mold. Breadcrumb Home Our Commitments Sub Navigation In This Section Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Safeguard Human Health Brown will improve the indoor environment by making our campus more resistant to moisture, flooding and mold. At the heart of Brown’s commitment to safeguarding human health is recognizing that the design of the University’s built environment can expose Brown community members to, or protect them from, environmental health hazards. The outdoor environment as well as the indoor spaces in which people live and work can have profound effects on physical and mental health. The nature of those effects on human health are expected to change with the climate. Outdoors, rising temperatures and increased ozone pollution increase risks for heat stress and respiratory problems. Indoors, people can be exposed to myriad chemicals with unknown health effects, while mold contamination in buildings is expected to increase with higher temperatures and increased precipitation. Brown will improve the indoor environment by reducing exposure to harmful building and cleaning materials, while improving our buildings to withstand the increased temperature, humidity and flooding that will come with climate change. 1 of 3 Natural lighting illuminates the lobby in the new Stephen Robert Hall. 2 of 3 Energy-efficient lighting was installed at the Engineering Research Center. 3 of 3 All furnishings at 164 Angell Street are free of chemical flame retardants. Brown is home to a diversity of building types and ages, from University Hall (built in 1770) to new state-of-the-art buildings still under construction. Throughout construction, renovation, management and landscape maintenance, Brown prioritizes products and designs that have health benefits. For example, current building standards encourage reductions in volatile organic compounds and do not allow furnishings with chemical flame retardants. The University is also committed to ensuring that the materials used on campus are as benign as possible by developing new building, cleaning and landscaping standards. That effort involves creating and maintaining a “red list” of products that are strongly discouraged. While it is not feasible to eliminate all of these products from existing buildings, it is possible to limit or eliminate their use during renovation and new construction, and the University is committed to doing so. We are working rapidly to articulate and act on our sustainability priorities, rethinking not only how we heat and cool our buildings but what food and materials we purchase, what materials we use and how those impact human health. Stephen Porder Assistant Provost for Sustainability While outdoor air quality is more difficult to control, the University remains committed to initiatives that can improve local air quality. First in this effort is the elimination of fossil fuel combustion on campus. Air pollution associated with fossil fuel combustion kills more people worldwide each year than smoking and malaria combined. For years, Brown has promoted sustainability-conscious modes of transportation. Those efforts include providing faculty, staff and students with free use of public transportation, increasing the presence of charging stations for electric vehicles and encouraging ride sharing. Brown is also in the process of electrifying its vehicle fleet, which will improve campus air quality. As fossil combustion is eliminated from buildings as part of Brown’s decarbonization efforts, air quality on campus and in Providence will also improve. Brown is committed to the further development of these and other efforts. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Safeguard Human Health Open details for Safeguard Human Health Bookmark this Page