Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Sustainability at Brown At Brown, sustainability is part of everything we do, from the way we operate our campus, to what we teach in the classroom, to our research around the world. Sustainability at Brown At Brown, sustainability is part of everything we do, from the way we operate our campus, to what we teach in the classroom, to our research around the world. Building a more sustainable future for the planet is the pivotal challenge of the 21st century. Brown is committed to leading by example in both addressing the University’s impact on the environment and also galvanizing education, research and community engagement focused on confronting sustainability issues. The University’s approach to sustainability is distinctive in focusing on the most immediate environmental challenges as well as the areas in which Brown is best positioned to effect positive change. Sustainability Strategic Plan Brown University’s Sustainability Strategic Plan establishes long-term objectives, articulates specific goals, and guides the University in making its decisions regarding sustainability. Read the plan Our Commitments Taking action in five key areas Drawing on input from faculty, staff, students and the broader community, Brown has established five science-based commitments to action that form the core of the University's sustainability efforts. Reduce Emissions Addressing climate change by cutting campus greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2040. Visit Page Open details for Reduce Emissions Reduce Nutrient Pollution Cutting the University’s nitrogen and phosphorus footprint by 25% over the next decade. Visit Page Open details for Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Sourcing building materials with biodiversity preservation in mind — particularly avoiding tropical hardwoods and palm oil, both major contributors to tropical forest loss and climate change. Visit Page Open details for Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Reducing stormwater drainage, as well as the use of pesticides and fertilizers and pesticides, to help protect regional water quality. Visit Page Open details for Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Improving indoor environments by making the campus more resilient to the increased moisture, flooding and mold our campus will experience as the climate changes. Visit Page Open details for Safeguard Human Health Education Brown excels at education and research that integrate knowledge across diverse fields of study, which makes it a perfect place to study solutions for complex, multifaceted environmental challenges facing our world. Education Operations From investments in renewable energy to managing stormwater runoff, Brown has a number of active initiatives aimed at helping the University reach its sustainability goals. All operations History Brown has been a leader in environmental education, research and action for decades. History Get Involved Brown is home to numerous sustainability-focused student groups interested in everything from environmental justice to sustainable food to composting. Internship programs and volunteer opportunities are also available. Get Involved Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Sustainability at Brown Open details for Sustainability at Brown Bookmark this Page