Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Landing Page - The Plan Landing Page - The Plan The Columbia Sustainability Plan is the University’s operations-focused roadmap to create a more sustainable campus. Download the Sustainability Plan About Columbia's Sustainability Plan The Columbia University Sustainability Plan is the University’s first formalized document bringing together sustainability efforts from myriad departments around campus. It is the result of a 16-month focused collaboration with students, faculty, administrators, and scientists working across departments to create a three-year, operations-focused roadmap to create a more sustainable campus. View the Plan in ISSUU Download a PDF of the Plan Greenhouse Gas Publicly reporting absolute GHG emissions through The Climate Registry. Energy Employing energy conservation as a central strategy to achieve a 35% GHG reduction by 2020. Transportation Reducing transportation emissions through greener campus fleets and commute alternatives. Waste Diverting more materials from landfill via recycling, re-use, organics and waste minimization. "Columbia’s leadership must continue to be reflected not only through the towering scholarship of our climate experts, but also through the ways in which we consume energy where we live, learn, and conduct research." - President Lee C. Bollinger What is Sustainable Columbia? Sustainable Columbia is the brand identity for Columbia University’s campus sustainability initiative, centralized through the Environmental Stewardship office and executed by a variety of University departments and projects. The Sustainable Columbia mark visually connects the many programs on campus that contribute to the success of our campus sustainability efforts by helping meet the goals set forth in this Plan. Download the Sustainable Columbia style guide. Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close