Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About About the School History School timeline Leadership School FAQ Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion A Living Lab Research & Impact Departments Institutes and Initiatives Sustainability Accelerator Students & Academics Academics Student Experience Student FAQ News & Events News Events What excites me is... Giving Foundational Launch Partners Matching Program Giving Opportunities New Faculty Student Support Institutes & Initiatives Research Grants Foundational Launch Partners Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Foundational Launch Partners Matching Program Giving Opportunities Main content start Stanford’s first new school in more than 70 years will launch this fall as the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in recognition of a gift from Ann and John Doerr. Their commitment, together with gifts from other generous lead donors, will extend the university’s scholarship and dramatically amplify its impact in tackling the urgent climate and sustainability challenges facing all people. “We are deeply grateful to John and Ann for partnering with us to realize the school’s mission, as well as to the other generous lead donors who are leveraging their resources to help us create a more livable future.” —Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne Ann and John Doerr Ann and John Doerr. Photo by Edward Caldwell. The Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability is named in honor of a historic gift from John and Ann Doerr. Motivated by a deep and urgent desire to avert the worst impacts of climate change, John and Ann are thrilled to partner with Stanford in launching an innovative, impact-oriented school designed to dramatically accelerate scientific, technological, and policy breakthroughs and solutions. John Doerr is an engineer, venture capitalist, chair of Kleiner Perkins, and author of bestsellers Measure What Matters and Speed & Scale: An Action Plan for Solving Our Climate Crisis Now. John serves entrepreneurs with ingenuity and optimism, helping them build bold teams and disruptive companies. As a pioneer of Silicon Valley’s cleantech movement, John has invested in zero emissions technologies since 2006. At Stanford, he has been a guest speaker at the Schools of Engineering, Business, and Law. Ann Doerr is chair of Khan Academy, former board member and current advisory board member of the Environmental Defense Fund, and former trustee of Rice University. At Stanford, she has served as a member of Stanford Medicine’s Cancer Council and Under One Umbrella Steering Committee. Together, the Doerrs have generously supported Stanford priorities including Stanford Medicine, Stanford Cancer Center, School of Engineering, Athletics, the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, and Lively Arts. “Stanford is making a bold, actionable, and enduring commitment to tackle humanity’s greatest challenge, and we have deep conviction in its ambition and abilities. We believe the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability will be a model for the interdisciplinary collaboration required to solve this existential challenge—and set a new standard for scholarship in the 21st century. Today’s real and pressing challenges—not least, solving our climate crisis—require that knowledge be channeled toward the building of practical, implementable solutions. With a deep track record in groundbreaking scholarship and impact, and a critical mass of subject experts and innovators, Stanford is perfectly positioned to make a measurable difference in climate and sustainability challenges. This is the decisive decade, and we must act with full speed and scale.” — Ann and John Doerr Angela and David Filo Angela, ’93, and David Filo, MS ’90, have provided start-up funding for the new school, ensuring that academic leaders have the resources and flexibility to meet urgent needs. A longtime Stanford volunteer leader, Angela is a member of the Stanford Board of Trustees and chairs the board’s Committee on Development. She also serves on the Stanford Vision leadership committee and served on the volunteer Sustainability Task Force in 2020-21. David was named a Stanford Engineering Hero in 2013 for his role in co-founding Yahoo! Inc. In 2008, the Filos helped launch the Stanford Interdisciplinary Graduate Fellowship program, providing generous matching funds and inspiring other donors to join in endowing support for cutting-edge doctoral research. Akiko Yamazaki and Jerry Yang With a gift of endowment for new faculty hires, Akiko Yamazaki, ’90, and Jerry Yang, ’90, MS ’90, are building on their longstanding support for environment and sustainability initiatives as some of Stanford’s most dedicated volunteers and philanthropists. Among their many volunteer roles, Jerry became chair of the Stanford Board of Trustees in April 2021, and Akiko chaired the volunteer Sustainability Task Force in 2020-21. In 2007, the couple provided the lead gift to build the Jerry Yang and Akiko Yamazaki Environment and Energy Building (Y2E2), which fosters interdisciplinary research and teaching in these areas and helped to create the foundation for the new school. Generous commitments from the following additional lead donors will help launch the school with support for faculty and students, innovative programs, and facilities. Anonymous (3) Katherine States Burke and T. Robert Burke Toni Cupal and Michelangelo Volpi Kelly and George Davis Roberta and Steven Denning Dan and Rae Emmett Alexia and Henry Fernandez Christina Gaw and Greg Donohugh William and Flora Hewlett Foundation Terry Huffington Mary Ellen and Chris Kanoff Dorothy and Robert King Landreth Family MAC3 Impact Philanthropies Brad and Carol Mills Katie and Scott Mitic Mike and Chrissi Morgan Laura and Kevin O’Donohue Lynn and Susan Orr Jay Precourt Vijay and Ram Shriram Kathy and Michael Shum Tracy and Gene Sykes Tidemark Foundation Anna Rui Wang Priscilla and Ward Woods The Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability builds on prior investments in Stanford that have helped to create and support a community of faculty, staff, and students in developing knowledge and solutions to sustain our planet. Key elements of this foundation and their primary benefactors include: Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment: Priscilla and Ward Woods Precourt Institute for Energy: Jay Precourt Jerry Yang and Akiko Yamazaki Environment and Energy Building (Y2E2): Jerry Yang and Akiko Yamazaki Center for Ocean Solutions: The David and Lucile Packard Foundation TomKat Center for Sustainable Energy and Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance: Tom Steyer and Kathryn Taylor Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources (E-IPER): Dan and Rae Emmett O’Donohue Family Stanford Educational Farm, including the Terry Huffington Barn: Laura and Kevin O’Donohue and Terry Huffington, respectively. For more information, please contact: Jennifer Judas, Associate Dean for Development 650-723-1942 or jjudas@stanford.edu Contact us Stay in touch Merging to form the new school: School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Precourt Institute for Energy Hopkins Marine Station Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering (joint with the School of Engineering) School history Academics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Giving Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top