Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Food and Nutrition Brown continues to enhance its support for local farmers and sustainably-sourced foods. Breadcrumb Home Sustainability in Operations Sub Navigation In This Section Energy Food & Nutrition Food Sourcing Waste Diversion Water Transportation Brown Dining Services BDS is committed to community stewardship by incorporating a sustainable product mix and supporting local charitable endeavors. learn more Food and Nutrition Brown continues to enhance its support for local farmers and sustainably-sourced foods. Brown Dining Services (BDS) works to integrate sustainable principles in every aspect of their operation. Dining’s goal is to meet the needs of of the campus community today without compromising the needs of future generations. BDS began a partnership with the Bon Appetit Management Company (BAMCO) in 2016. BAMCO chefs and personnel work alongside BDS staff in all aspects of dining operations including vendor and food sourcing, menu planning, and marketing, integrating BAMCO’s robust sustainability principles into Brown's operations wherever feasible. Over 70% of Brown’s purchases meet these strict sustainability criteria. BDS implemented a composting program in all kitchens at Brown, has reduced its GHG and nutrient impact by reducing red meat purchases, and increased its local partnerships which decrease emissions from transportation. FY21 Year in Review ~18% of overall food purchases considered local 68% of poultry purchases considered local While total dining spend decreased by ~41% compared to FY18 totals, spend on red meat declined more rapidly at 57.6% Food Sourcing Brown actively supports its local community by sourcing food products from local farms and vendors. Averting the Landfill and Reducing Food Waste Composting Eco-To-Go Beyond The Bottle After The Harvest Composting All dining facilities at Brown compost food scraps and back-of-house items. This means that staff are composting everything they can from the kitchens and prep areas. Participation in composting is also available to diners at the Sharpe Refectory. The University partners with The Compost Plant and Agri-Cycle to turn this organic material into compost. Annually, Brown composts an average of 560 tons. How to compost Eco-To-Go In the spring of 2010, BDS implemented Eco To-Go, a reusable takeout container program. Besides offering the container, BDS also worked to educate students about landfill waste and the benefits of re-use. BDS is now partnering with the Office of Sustainability to assess the program and look for ways to improve and increase membership. Beyond The Bottle Beyond the Bottle volunteers handing out water bottles at Commencement. Beyond the Bottle is a student initiative started in February 2008 with the goal of reducing the supply and demand of bottled water at Brown. As a result of their efforts, bottled water purchases by Dining Services have reduced by nearly 100%. The initiative has decreased Brown’s plastic demand and spurred the inclusion of a building standard that requires the inclusion of water filling stations. After The Harvest The After the Harvest initiative began during Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week in 2005. BDS has successfully coordinated efforts to both reduce food waste and reroute overproduced food appropriate for donation to local hunger relief programs. Since the program’s inception, BDS has donated hundreds of thousands of pounds of food to local organizations including The Rhode Island Community Food Bank and City Year. Sharpe Refectory In recent years, Brown has worked to revamp the infrastructure and equipment in Brown’s main dining hall in order to provide great quality food in an efficient and sustainable manner. Recent renovations revamped include: A new waste station layout that has improved composting and recycling on the part of students. A new air conditioning system that provides efficient comfort. Highly efficient dishwashers that save 1.25 million gallons of water each year. The success of Sharpe’s transformation largely rests on collaboration across administrative units and in consultation with students. The experience of Sharpe can serve as an example of successful collaboration resulting in real change. Water Conservation Trayless Dining Brown Dining has committed to trayless dining in its main dining facility, Sharpe Refectory. Trayless dining conserves one-third to a half gallon of heated water per person by eliminating the need to wash those trays. It also reduces the energy that would be used to heat the water and detergents used to wash trays. Studies suggest that the elimination of trays may also reduce food waste because people take fewer items without them. Brown Dining Services BDS is committed to community stewardship by incorporating a sustainable product mix and supporting local charitable endeavors. learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Food and Nutrition Open details for Food and Nutrition Bookmark this Page