Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Subscribe Yale Sustainability Explainers News Blog Vision & Approach Priorities & Progress Academics & Research Take Action Resources About Home > About > Jobs Jobs Please see below for sustainability-related job openings at Yale University. Staff Positions Please check back for staff openings. Student Positions College Sustainability Liaisons The Residential College Sustainability Liaisons are a group of 14 undergraduates that assist in the implementation of the Sustainability Action Plan for their college. Reporting to their Operations Manager, the liaisons are expected to work 3 to 7 hours per week. The Office of Sustainability provides secondary supervision and facilitates on-going communication between the residential colleges and the Office. The position is for a Liaison at the following college(s): Branford, Pierson. It is a paid position ($14.30/hour). Find more details on the position and application instructions on Yale Student Employment. Nature & Health Research Assistant The Yale Center for Business and the Environment is seeking a research assistant to support the Yale Office of Sustainability and the New Haven Nature and Health Initiative. This position will support campus and community partners in facilitating opportunities to improve health outcomes by spending time in nature. Responsibilities may include (but are not limited to): Support the design and implementation of Nature and Health based programming for Yale students and employees by: Coordinating campaigns and communications with campus stakeholders (e.g. (events, posters, social media, etc.) Developing/delivering materials, like maps and pamphlets, for students and employees (e.g. exploring the benefits of encouraging their employees to go outside for breaks, meetings, or lunch) Supporting green space managers with health-related programming Support the New Haven Nature & Health Initiative in expanding programming community-wide by: Developing or collecting educational resources that can be shared by patients and providers (guidebooks on outdoor activities and attire) Maintaining and expanding partnerships with campus health care providers, land-use managers, wellness groups, and others Managing Nature and Health team logistics and communications (organize meetings; regular newsletter communications; file upkeep) Maintaining and expanding the Parks Rx database of New Haven greenspaces Identify interested parties and organizations on campus and in the New Haven area to expand new connections and partnerships and help maintain/strengthen existing partnerships. Coordinate communications with other universities (Cornell, Penn, Columbia, Ivy+) through the Campus Nature Rx Network Collaborate with other Health and Nature RAs to build momentum and interest around the nature and health This position will be managed by Amber Garrard, Associate Director of the Yale Office of Sustainability. Please send application materials (cover letter and CV) directly to Amber Garrard. Spring Salvage Yale Office of Sustainability is hiring students to assist with Spring Salvage in May 2022. Spring Salvage is Yale’s annual resource recovery and waste diversion program held during undergraduate student move-out. The goal of the program is to divert reusable materials from the waste stream during Yale student move out. Watch video Spring Salvage finds new homes for no-longer needed items. The following positions are open for applications on the Yale Student Employment Website: Spring Salvage Program Assistant Open to undergraduate or graduate students. Program Assistants will play critical roles during Spring Salvage by hauling donated and recyclable items from student residences and facilitating dormitory move-out operations. Work will consist primarily of hauling furniture, room furnishings, and other items donated by students. Opportunities to work extra hours doing miscellaneous facilities tasks, such as cleaning campus billboards, may be provided. Dates: April 29-May 26, 2022, particularly May 2- May 12 and May 20 - 26. Compensation $15.15/hour for 19-37.5 hours per week. Yale Student Employment Reference # 15779. History Governance Recognition Office of Sustainability Jobs Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale Office of Sustainability 203.436.3571 sustainability@yale.edu Yale Copyright © 2021 Yale University · All rights reserved · Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy · Nondiscrimination/Title IX  Federal and State Notice Requirements · Jobs Facebook Twitter Instagram