Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Saving Energy Doing our part to conserve energy, wherever we are. Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities Saving Energy Doing our part to conserve energy, wherever we are. There are lots of simple things we can all do to save energy. They may be small, but they add up. Energy Saving Tips 1 of 6 Many appliances and electronics still use energy when they’re off but still plugged in. Unplug anything you’re not using to avoid energy loss. 2 of 6 Keep windows closed for conditioned spaces. Most spaces have some type of individual control which can be used. 3 of 6 If you work in a lab keep fume hood sashes down. Most fume hoods use less air with the sash down, and since fume hoods use one-pass air, they need a lot of energy. 4 of 6 Try to purchase the highest efficiency equipment possible. This is especially important for items that run all the time (refrigerator/freezers, etc). 5 of 6 Wash your clothes in cold water and make sure you have a full load. Cold water is gentler on your clothes and you'll save lots of energy as about 90% of the energy used by the washing machine during laundry goes towards heating the water. 6 of 6 As Brown works towards its goal of 100% LED for on-campus lighting, make the change in your own room or home. Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) use 75% less energy than incandescent bulbs and last almost 10 times as long. Reach out to Brown's Office of Sustainability at Sustainability@brown.edu for guidance on the purchase of appliances or if you see evidence of energy waste on campus. If your space does not heat or cool properly, call Service Response at 401-863-7800. Green Packing List Before coming to Brown in the fall, check out our green packing list below to learn how you can make sustainable purchases, where you can find green products, and what you can get for free at Brown. See the list Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Saving Energy Open details for Saving Energy Bookmark this Page