Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Design and Construction Overview The way Columbia builds significantly impacts the environment on a number of levels. With a growing campus, Columbia must be ever-mindful of the methods of building, the materials sourced, and the end-of-life treatment after demolition. This extends to both exteriors and interiors of buildings, creating harmony between sustainability and occupant comfort. In addition, building design largely determines the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions resulting from the operation of the building over its lifetime. Expand all Collapse all Goals Ensure that Columbia’s design, construction, and refresh processes at all campuses align with the University’s long-term goal to reduce Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in order to achieve net zero by 2050 or sooner, and achieve zero waste. Strategies Strategy 1: Create and adopt a Columbia policy that sets clear sustainability requirements for all elements of design and construction, pushes Columbia beyond guidelines and code, addresses perceived restraints, and ensures alignment with the University’s GHG emissions reduction goals. Scope 1 and 2 emissions: Confirm timing of 100% zero emissions electricity for electrical driven systems equipment and timing of electrification of heating in order to inform engineers and designers so all new buildings and retrofits meet Local Law 97 (LL97) and the University's net zero goal by Spring 2021. Engage a strategic consultant to address requirements for renovations (Morningside), new builds (Manhattanville), research and lab space (Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO)) by Fall 2021. Benchmark existing buildings to identify those that are the worst "energy offenders” and prioritize changes there. Scope 3 emissions: Require that construction and demolition waste be diverted and reported to the University for all projects. Include in scope of work (SOW), requests for proposal (RFPs), and project closeout requirements. Pilot by 2021, scale up by 2022. Require electric or low-emission construction equipment rather than diesel-powered equipment that emits particulates and can have local health impacts. Develop a plan to better incorporate building materials made with low-carbon methods (e.g. cement, steel). Examine and implement take-back programs not currently being utilized to reduce waste by 2022. Complete screening-level inventory of Scope 3 emissions associated with design and construction, including: waste, transportation and distribution, and purchased goods and services by 2022. Adopt “red list” of items to be prohibited from campus by 2023. Set specific GHG reduction goal for design and construction by 2024. Report progress annually. Leverage purchasing of widely used materials in bulk contracts to reduce costs and emissions from transport by 2024. Increase use of the ReUse Program by examining technology solutions and improved processes. Strategy 2: Develop action plans that provide tactical guidelines to make sustainability a part of Columbia's design and construction culture. Establish Sustainability Advocacy Committees in each of the following teams: Facilities and Operations, Capital Project Management (CPM), Manhattanville Development Group (MDG), Residential Operations, CUIMC, and LDEO. Among other responsibilities, these committees will keep an eye toward emerging climate change adaptation strategies for design. Each committee will develop a unique action plan with tactical guidelines to make sustainability a part of the design and construction culture. Collaborate with strategic communications offices to develop a public-facing communication strategy to build awareness about this work. Collaborate with Earth Institute capstone programs, Environmental Stewardship, and the Climate School to utilize the campus as a living lab, inviting students and faculty to help think through solutions to problems for continual improvement. Participate in pilot studies to help inform direction in strategies above. Expand all Collapse all Progress to Date All comprehensive new construction and renovation project designs are required to meet the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certification level. All new projects are built and designed using Columbia’s sustainability design requirements. Learn More Learn more about design requirements at Columbia. CUIMC-Specific Commitments CUIMC is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. LDEO-Specific Commitments LDEO is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. Topics: Design and Construction Geothermal Energy Green Roofs Building Exteriors and Historic Preservation LEED Building Awards Sort Department Audience Categories Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Services, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter edit edit edit edit Recent News: Design and Construction December 14, 2021 Columbia Earns Prestigious Health and Well-Being Certification for New Residential Building on 125th Street Fitwel®’s three-star rating, its highest, recognizes the building’s extensive features that cultivate physical, mental, and social health of occupants as well as overall sustainability. Tags Construction & DesignAwards October 29, 2021 Columbia University Joins Global “Race to Zero” Pledging Immediate Action Against Climate Change Columbia’s commitment to reach net zero by 2050 or sooner and its new sustainability plan qualify the university for participation in this global challenge. Tags Plan 2030EnergyTransportationWasteCampus as a Living LabConstruction & Design September 23, 2021 Plan 2030: Pathway to Decarbonize Columbia University's Campuses On Thursday, September 23, a panel of Columbia faculty, staff and student representatives discussed the University's ten-year sustainability plan – Plan 2030 – and goal to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. The virtual event included an overview of the plan and discussion about activity underway, noting the role that students and faculty play in meeting the University's goals. The event was coordinated as part of Columbia’s partnership in Climate Week. Tags Plan 2030TransportationConstruction & DesignCulture ChangeWaste More News Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close