Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Reduce Nutrient Pollution Brown is committed to reducing nutrient pollution (specifically nitrogen and phosphorus) by 15% by 2025, and by 25% by 2030. Breadcrumb Home Our Commitments Sub Navigation In This Section Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Reduce Nutrient Pollution Brown is committed to reducing nutrient pollution (specifically nitrogen and phosphorus) by 15% by 2025, and by 25% by 2030. Seeking to minimize nutrient overuse and pollution through University practices and purchases is integral to Brown’s sustainability goals. Nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus are essential for life. But an overabundance creates algae-choked waterways, carcinogenic drinking water, unhealthy air and acid rain. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency cites nutrient pollution as one of America’s “most widespread, challenging and costly environmental problems.” To do its part in combating this problem, Brown has committed to reducing its nitrogen and phosphorus footprint by 15% by 2025, and 25% by 2030. Brown was one of the first schools to join the Nitrogen Footprint Network and to quantify the amount of nitrogen that flows through campus. Food purchases — red meat and dairy in particular — make up about 85% of Brown’s nitrogen footprint. Phosphorus is more difficult to quantify, but it is also inexorably tied to food production and consumption. Reducing Brown’s nitrogen footprint will require reducing red meat consumption and supporting agricultural practices that minimize nutrient pollution. With this in mind, Brown’s objective is to reduce red meat consumption on campus by 25% by 2025. Lessons learned from this first step will allow a push to a 50% reduction, or beyond, by 2030. Initiatives at Brown Food Sourcing Brown actively supports its local community by sourcing food products from local farms and vendors. Visit Page Open details for Food Sourcing Nitrogen Footprint Network Tracking and reducing nutrient pollution for healthier waterways and cleaner air Visit Page Open details for Nitrogen Footprint Network A commitment to reducing red meat to reduce nutrient pollution doesn’t mean sacrificing protein availability. Brown’s goal is to transition toward protein sources for the campus community that keep nutritional value high and reduce nutrient pollution. This commitment will have the added benefit of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, since red meat production is responsible for more emissions than any other component of food production. While red meat is a small component of Brown’s greenhouse gas emissions, it is a large component of the average American’s emissions and of student emissions when they are on campus. So reducing meat consumption on campus helps to educate our students, staff and faculty about choices that have an impact on their carbon footprint. Related Academic Research News from Brown Humans adding less nitrogen to oceans than models predict January 6, 2016 Atmospheric models have suggested that a vast majority of nitrogen deposited in the open ocean is derived from human activities, but a new study suggests that’s not so. Read Article Open details for Humans adding less nitrogen to oceans than models predict News from Brown Phosphorus ‘tax’ could be huge if tropical farming intensifies April 18, 2016 If the world turns to intensive farming in the tropics to meet food demand, it will require vast amounts of phosphorus fertilizer produced from Earth’s finite, irreplaceable phosphate rock deposits, a new analysis shows. Read Article Open details for Phosphorus ‘tax’ could be huge if tropical farming intensifies News from Brown Profiles in Summer Research: Michael Demanche August 17, 2017 Combining data collection in the field with work in lab, Michael Demanche is developing techniques for using satellites to monitor a key environmental indicator in Narragansett Bay. Read Article Open details for Profiles in Summer Research: Michael Demanche Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reduce Nutrient Pollution Open details for Reduce Nutrient Pollution Bookmark this Page