Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home About Partnerships Partnerships Sustainable Columbia partners with these like-minded organizations to achieve common goals in sustainability. The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) AASHE empowers higher education faculty, administrators, staff and students to be effective change agents and drivers of sustainability innovation. They work with and for higher education to ensure that our world’s future leaders are motivated and equipped to solve sustainability challenges. Association for Commuter Transportation (ACT) The Association for Commuter Transportation, (ACT), is an international association and leading advocate for commuter transportation and transportation demand management (TDM). Through advocacy, education, and networking efforts, ACT strives to improve the lives of commuters, the livability of communities, and the economic growth of businesses. Bike New York Bike New York empowers New Yorkers to transform their lives and their communities through bicycling. Their vision is to increase ridership, to empower youth to lead healthy, productive lives, to remove barriers to cycling, and to advocate for and expand services to reach more New Yorkers. Clean Air NY Clean Air NY supports New York individuals and businesses in making simple changes to everyday travel choices that improve air quality; hence improving our health, our communities, and our quality of life. The Climate Registry The Climate Registry (TCR) is a non-profit organization governed by U.S. states and Canadian provinces and territories. TCR designs and operates voluntary and compliance GHG reporting programs globally, and assists organizations in measuring, reporting and verifying (MRV) the carbon in their operations in order to manage and reduce it. The Earth Institute, Columbia University The Earth Institute is made up of scholars spread out across dozens of research centers and programs at Columbia University. These researchers are refining our understanding of how the planet works and how humans are affecting natural systems. GreenerU, Inc. GreenerU, Inc. collaborates with educational institutions to engineer sustainable solutions to energy and engagement challenges. They leverage strategic planning and project management of energy efficiency projects to realize cost savings, achieve energy reduction goals, and address deferred maintenance. The League of American Bicyclists For generations past and to come, The League represents bicyclists in the movement to create safer roads, stronger communities, and a bicycle-friendly America. Through information, advocacy and promotion, they work to celebrate and preserve the freedom cycling brings to our members everywhere. New York City Department of Sanitation (DSNY) The NYC Department of Sanitation is the world’s largest sanitation department. DSNY collects more than 10,500 tons of residential and institutional garbage and 1,760 tons of the recyclables each day. The Department is also a leader in environmentalism, committing to sending zero waste to landfills by 2030. 511NY Rideshare 511NY Rideshare is New York State's home for ridematching, commuter and traveler services that can help you find a smarter and greener way to get where you're going. They provide information and resources to help commuters, travelers and employers find easy, affordable, and appealing alternatives to driving alone. New York State Association for Reduction, Reuse and Recycling (NYSAR3) NYSAR3 provides statewide leadership on waste reduction, reuse and recycling issues and practices to improve the environment. REV Campus Challenge The REV Campus Challenge is a membership-based network of two- and four-year, public and private colleges and universities from all regions of NYS. Members recognize the unique position held by higher education institutions to further clean energy and declare their intent to further clean energy adoption through actions on campus, by training tomorrow’s leaders, and by working within their local communities. The Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System™ (STARS) STARS is a transparent, self-reporting framework for colleges and universities to measure their sustainability performance. Zipcar Zipcar is a car-share company on a mission to enable simple and responsible urban living: a future filled with more car-sharing members than car owners in major cities across the globe. Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close