Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Business Travel Columbia commits to reduce University-related business travel. Transportation Commitment Areas Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Options Freight Emissions Overview Columbia relies on regional, national, and global travel and experience to carry out its research and educational missions. Columbia seeks to strike a balance between necessary travel and sustainable solutions for travel alternatives for students, faculty, and staff. As a result of COVID-19 beginning in 2020, the rise of remote work and study has resulted in a drastic reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions to the University. Business travel impact has decreased with fewer Columbians traveling by plane and more people becoming accustomed to communicating virtually. These are lessons Columbia can apply going forward — trends that do not have to remain in 2020, even after the worst of the pandemic subsides. Expand all Collapse all Goals and Strategies Provide and market campus resources that allow affiliates to avoid travel if possible. Continue to expand videoconferencing capabilities and awareness about these resources. Enable affiliates to learn about and use Information Technology (IT) services, such as videoconferencing, that help avoid travel. Organize kick-off meeting by 2021. Leverage Columbia’s purchasing power to steer affiliates to travel services that have already adopted sustainable practices (car rentals, airlines, and hotel chains). Begin conversations in 2021 to inform future practices. Increase awareness among University affiliates on the impact of air travel, including Columbia-related and individual impacts, as well as communicating the low-carbon travel alternatives like rail and bus travel. Develop awareness and communications campaign by Fall 2021. Set travel reduction goals within the University in alignment with science-based targets. Incorporate this into the Scope 3 screening methodology. Offset emissions from University sponsored business travel. After all other actions have been taken to reduce or avoid non-essential business travel, offset any remaining emissions annually. Form a sub-team by Fall 2021 to evaluate and enhance offset criteria and determine offsets for University consideration. Align with faculty to calculate greenhouse gas (GHG) savings and consider local community benefit and additionality. Progress to Date Columbia’s first sustainability plan called for the tracking and reporting of business-travel emissions data, an indirect Scope 3 emissions source. Pre-pandemic, emissions from business travel accounted for 15% of the Morningside+ total emissions. The availability of this data, collected through a biennial University-wide survey, has allowed Columbia to better understand the impact of this travel and ultimately implement solutions such as enhanced videoconferencing “packages.” The University has recently deployed a travel booking tool that will allow for more centralized and accurate data collection moving forward. Learn More Read about Columbia’s criteria for offsetting emissions. CUIMC-Specific Commitments CUIMC is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. LDEO-Specific Commitments LDEO is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. Back to Plan 2030 About Plan 2030 Executive Summary Introduction Progress to Date Climate Leadership Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Commitment Areas Campus Energy Sustainable Transportation Responsible Design and Construction Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Responsible Materials Management Water Conservation and Capture Appendix Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets Environmental Justice Senior Sustainability Advisory Committee (SSAC) and Working Group Members Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close