Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters: Search Buttons Search This Site Search Cornell Main MenuSearch Sustainability Map News Events Subscribe Home Our Leadership Our History Governance Sustainability Framework Sustainability Plan Climate Action Plan Campus Initiatives Annual Reporting Living Laboratory Buildings & Energy Food Land & Water Purchasing and Waste Human Wellbeing Transportation Take Action Student Resources Employee Resources Event Certification Green Office & Lab Program Green Teams & Ambassadors Annual Events Awards About Campus Sustainability Office Jobs & Opportunities Partnerships News News and Events News Events Home News Cornell earns second platinum sustainability rating, tops national rankings in 2021 Cornell earns second platinum sustainability rating, tops national rankings in 2021 Campus Sustainability Office December 3, 2021 Sustainability Leadership Among other accolades for campus sustainability, Cornell recently opened two new residential buildings on North Campus with rooftop solar. | Photo: Cornell Facilities Cornell has earned a second platinum sustainability rating – the highest possible– from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education. Open an infographic showing key highlights from the most recent Cornell STARS Report. | Campus Sustainability Office Cornell is the only Ivy league institution to have achieved a platinum rating, and one of just two in the world to have achieved the accolade twice. AASHE manages the reporting tool STARS (Sustainability Tracking Assessment and Rating System), a comprehensive rating and assessment tool with over 1,000 points of data on education & engagement, campus operations, planning, diversity & equity, and sustainability governance. “A platinum rating is something everyone at Cornell can be proud of,” said assistant director of campus sustainability Sarah Brylinsky. “Sustainability is a process, not a destination. Our facilities staff, faculty, and most importantly, students, are setting a national example of how we create a culture of sustainability innovation.” Cornell was prominently featured as a top-performing institution in the organization’s 2021 Sustainable Campus Index, coming in first in New York State for overall score, and top marks in green building, campus engagement programs, coordination & planning, and sustainability research. “But, a high rating doesn’t mean our work is done,” noted Brylinsky. “We should use STARS to identify areas of improvement and continue to share our successes and learn from other high-performing Universities.” The STARS report is the foundation for other national and public sustainability rankings, such as the Sierra Club’s Cool Schools and the Princeton Review Green Honor Roll. Browse Cornell’s full 2021 STARS report and to learn more, or see how Cornell compares to other institutions on the sustainability ratings and reporting page. Related News RSVP & Nominate: Student Sustainability Awards April 07, 2022 Sustainable fashions at the Beyond Waste Prom March 30, 2022 Sustainability Tip March 24, 2022 Upcoming Events Stay Connected Cornell Sustainability @sustaincornell RT @CornellNews: Expand #ClimateAction: Mitigation strategies must target #carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic #climate tipping points. #ClimateEmergency @PNASNews @CornellCALS https://t.co/eQmRxDqG1k Sustainable Cornell Facebook Sustainable Cornell Instagram Sustainable Campus Contact Us 129 Humphreys Service Building Ithaca, NY 14853 PHONE 607-255-6375 EMAIL sustainability@cornell.edu Quick Links About News Events Participate Find Your Opportunity Webmaster Login Newsletter Subscription Sign Up © 2022 Campus Sustainability Office, Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.