Skip to main content SustainableUMD Main Menu Get Involved Students Faculty Staff Everyone Education and Research Majors, Minors & Graduate Programs More Sustainability Education & Research Opportunities Sustainability Advisors Teaching Fellows Research Centers Living & Learning Programs Student Projects Topics Buildings Energy Food Landscape Transport Waste Water Progress Our Commitments Progress Hub: SustainableUMD Data & Stories Reports & Resources About Contact Us News Office of Sustainability Sustainability Council SustainableUMD Network Sustainability Grants Donate Sustainability at the University of Maryland The University of Maryland is committed to advance sustainability through the ways we impact the world: teaching, research, service, and operations. About SustainableUMD Our global fight against the climate crisis is far from over. The University of Maryland will accelerate its goal to become a net carbon-neutral campus by 2025. It is my hope that these measures will help inspire every one of us to commit to the reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions for our planet and for our people. President Darryll J. Pines Carbon Neutrality Goal UMD Accelerates Carbon Neutrality Goal to 2025 SustainableUMD News & Events Search Category - Any -BuildingsEnergyFoodLandscapeTransportationWasteWater Author - Any -Emily HightowerMacKenzie GuthrieSally DeLeonTanvi GadhiaTaylor Brinks May 26, 2022 Mid-Atlantic Green Roof Science & Technology Symposium The University of Maryland Extension is hosting a symposium to share the latest results on green roof scientific research and technological developments. Learn more: https://go.umd.edu/cZn Thu, Jul 14, 2022, 8 am– Fri, Jul 15, 2022, 12 pm EDT Location: Edward St. John Learning and Teaching Center 4131 Campus Drive College Park, MD 20742 About this event: April 27, 2022 Sustainable Solutions to Fast Fashion Webinar 4/17 Fast Fashion Webinar Wednesday, April 27, 2022 4-5pm April 26, 2022 Sustainability at Maryland Day! April 13, 2022 Sustainability Fund Workshop- Networking, Ideation, & Action Planning Sustainability Fund Workshop: Networking, Ideation, &amp; Action Planning: Mon, April 25, 6-8pm, ESJ 2101 April 06, 2022 Sustainability Fund Grant Workshop Sustainability Fund Grant Workshop Mon, April 25, 6-8 pm, Innovation Loft- ESJ 2101 This in-person workshop is for students interested in applying for a Sustainability Fund grant. During the workshop, you will brainstorm and troubleshoot your grant proposal ideas to advance campus sustainability. April 05, 2022 EarthFest 2022: UMD's Earth Day Festival Check out the photo albums from the event: Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Nextpage Lastpage Subscribe Join the monthly SustainableUMD Newsletter for updates on campus news, events, and opportunities! View our past newsletters. Email Address: Get Involved Guides, programs, certifications, and commitments to empower all at UMD to advance sustainability progress! Take Action Progress Hub The SustainableUMD Progress Hub displays campus sustainability metrics in interactive dashboards, celebrates stories of sustainable progress across the UMD community, and connects local action at UMD with global sustainability goals. Progress 2025 GOLD 100% UMD's Target to Achieve Net-Zero Emissions STARS rating by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education Purchased Electricity from Renewable Energy Sources Climate Action at UMD SustainableUMD Progress Hub Clean Energy at UMD Explore campus programs and initiatives through the lens of these sustainability topic areas. Explore opportunities to get involved, adopt sustainable practices, and some of the sustainable policies, practices, and infrastructure implemented on campus. Sustainability is multifaceted and interconnected, and there are many linkages between these topics and beyond to the health, safety, and well-being of all. Select a topic: Learn more about UMD's path to carbon neutrality by 2025, and sustainability initiatives across the campus! Sustainability News from University of Maryland Residence Hall Essentials Get New Lease on Life at Campus ‘ReStore’ Students Can Donate Gently Used Appliances, Accessories to Benefit Other Terps View Article Residence Hall Essentials Get New Lease on Life at Campus ‘ReStore’ UMD Climate Change Policy Study Maps Path to Reach Greenhouse Goals Researchers Recommend New Policies to Reduce Transportation Emissions by 2030 View Article UMD Climate Change Policy Study Maps Path to Reach Greenhouse Goals Another Kind of Tree ‘Planting’ Puts UMD Team in Hunt for $100M Climate Victory Deceptively Simple Plan to Seal Away Carbon Could Alter Global Warming’s Trajectory View Article Another Kind of Tree ‘Planting’ Puts UMD Team in Hunt for $100M Climate Victory More Sustainability Articles About Contact Us Sustainability Fund News Progress Hub SustainableUMD 4716 Pontiac St, College Park, MD 20740 sustainability@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube UMD.edu Web Accessibility Privacy Notice Progress Hub Back to Top