Office of Sustainability Texas A&M University Our Team Our Team About Us Employment Our Programs Internship Awards Aggie Sustainability Alliance Sustainable Event Certification Our Master Plan Master Plan Evergreen Goals Our Partners Aggie Green Fund Academics Sustainability Advisory Council Sustainability and Environmental Management Committee Campus Stakeholders TRACS Data and Reporting STARS Resources Resources Sustainable Holidays Get Involved Events Student Sustainability Coalition Employment Search Sustainability Search Office of Sustainability From its inception as a land-grant institution in 1876 to the additional sea-grant and space-grant designations, Texas A&M University has been a leader in research and education for how we interact with—and impact—our environment. In March 2008, The Office of Sustainability was founded to enhance these efforts by creating a culture of sustainability in Aggieland. We work to respect, protect, and preserve the financial, environmental, and people resources that make Texas A&M and our community so great, not only for today, but also for future generations of Aggies. When Aggies commit to a sustainable lifestyle, we bring Texas A&M's core values to life. Make sustainability an Aggie Tradition! Look for ways you can think globally, act locally, and shape our future. If you have questions, suggestions, or would like to schedule a presentation, please email sustainability@tamu.edu. Events April is Earth Month Our Mission Our mission is to educate the campus and local community about the importance of sustainability. We will accomplish this by promoting sustainable practices both on and off-campus in academic and non-academic settings, providing resources and support for people who wish to incorporate sustainable practices into their work and life, and advocating for sustainable programs and initiatives. Sustainability Master Plan The 2018 Sustainability Master Plan envisions what the next generation of sustainability work at Texas A&M will encompass. 2020 Highlights Read a recap of the sustainability accomplishments across campus in 2020 in this brief report or watch a video featuring select accomplishments. Give Make a charitable gift to the Office of Sustainability to support and strengthen the sustainable efforts on campus. Office of Sustainability • 1245 TAMU • College Station, TX 77843-1245 • Email: sustainability@tamu.edu • Contact Us © 2021 All rights reserved Texas A&M University Report Fraud Accessibility Privacy Site Policies