Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Programs Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Leaders Network Members' Portal Request Participation Participate Remotely (coming soon) What is the Sustainable Leaders Network (SLN)? The SLN is a group of sustainability-minded students, faculty, and staff from each school or administrative department at Columbia University. From collaborating on user-friendly, campus-wide recycling bin signage to piloting innovative green solutions in their offices and classrooms, members of the SLN aim to drive behavior change from the ground up across Columbia's campuses. Expand all Collapse all About the SLN In September 2016, when President Bollinger announced the creation of the University’s first set of Sustainability Principles, he introduced a new forum called the Sustainable Columbia Leaders Network (SLN). The provost also announced the creation of the SLN at the Council of Deans meeting held on September 8, 2016. The deans of Columbia’s schools have identified three volunteers from each school to participate in this group: one faculty member, one student, and one administrator. Membership * indicates Green Team Liaison Butler Hall Rachel Drogoszewski*, Executive Suite Jamie Nash*, Strategic Communications Campus Services Bianca Tamburello, Columbia Dining Daniel Lopez, Columbia Health Emerald Curie, UEM Janice Erskine, Environmental Stewardship Kevin Porter, Print, Mail & Transportation Matilde Gonzalez, Print, Mail & Transportation Scott Buonomo, UEM Sophy Ramirez, Executive Suite Daniel Lopez*, Columbia Health CUFO Finance / HR IT Caryn Chen, Capital Finance & Admin Support Cyle Timmons* Meagan Arceo, Finance Michael Roman, CUFO HR Muin Alzougbi, CUFO IT Earth Institute Alix Schroder* General Studies Jessica Sarles-Dinsick Josh Edwin Max Ginsberg Nathaniel Wilcox* Noah Kutzy Sean Trulby GSAS Allan MacLeod* Mike Ford* Journalism Abigail Bedrick, Development Andrew Rodriguez Calderon, Student Justin Ray, Magazine Lauren V. Meregildo-Santos, Prizes Michael Krisch, Brown Institute for Media Innovation Scott Osborn*, Facilities Sean Murphy, Pulitzer Prizes Susan McGregor, Tow Center Ofelia Mangen, IT Law Anthony Pallone, Building Services Ashley Marie Gregor, Student Brendan Mallee* Briana Florio, Alumni Relations Frantz Merine, Information Technology Hazel May, Registrar Heath Mayhew, Law Library Hunter Whaley, Law Library Julie Anna Albarez, Career Services Laura MillerFaculty Affairs Marissa Litwin Zalk, Graduate Legal Studies Martin Howard, Information Technology Mary Lee Herrington, Career Services Michael Gerrard* Olati Johnson* Susan Cersovsky, Admissions Susan Kraham Lerner Hall Chanda E. Bennett, Student Advising Cheryl L. de Moose, Student Advising Corey A. Getchell, Double Discovery Jesse Adamo, Undergraduate Student Life Josh Lucas, Undergraduate Student Life Juan Francisco, Lerner Facilities Lorena Prosco, Lerner Operations Marva Binns, Student & Family Support Philip T. Masciantonio, WKCR Richard Bova, Lerner Facilities Sivan Grunfeld, Ticket Information Center Taiwo Adenekan, University Chaplain Theresa Delgado, Columbia College Operations Mailman School of Public Health Abigail Welbourn, Environmental Health Sciences Amina Williams, Environment Health Sciences Brian Brennan* Bryan Burne* Ebony King, Epidemiology Elizabeth Tashiro, IT Georgia André, Biostatistics Gilbert Smith, Infection & Immunity Heather Krasna, Career Services Irma Rosario, Deans Office Jenissia Jeanty, Sociomedical Sciences Jill Baxter, Budget and Compliance Kazuel Baily, Sponsored Projects Kim Milan, Deans Office Leila Arbaje-Lembert, ICAP Marianthi-Anna Kioumourtzoglou* Marjorie Perez-Richardson, Educational Programs Natasha Sood Nina Kulacki, Health Policy and Management Rosa Perez-Maldonado, Educational Programs Rosine Moussa, Columbia Aging Center Shana Young, Finance Yasmin Davis, Sociomedical Sciences Physicians and Surgeons Anita Patel, Department of Pediatrics Erin Bailey Mauceri, Dept. of Physiology, Dept. of Pharmacology Evgenia Berkovich, Division of General Medicine Giselle Gonzalez, Ophthalmology Indrajeet Viswanathan, Facilities Management Justin Bernardo, Urology Li Shi, Taub Institute Lyn Goldsmith, Department of Surgery Maria Batori, HICCC Maria Diaz-Gil, Center for Family and Community Medicine Michelle Leddy, Orthopedic Surgery Neil Schluger* Nicole Marotta, Institute for Genomic Medicine Roxana Martinez Sadie Maloof, HICCC Sara Sternglass, Institute for Human Nutrition Stephanie Blaney, Orthopedic Surgery Wayne Tang Public Safety Ace Valentine, Manhattanville Campus Alfonsina Rosario-Arroyo, Nash Building Andy Sanchez-Sarit, Morningside Campus Fulp Goudswaard, Medical Center Campus Jimmy Lai*, Morningside Campus Michael O'Donnell, Medical Center Campus Patrick Danville, Morningside Campus Yeiry Liriano, Manhattanville Campus Office of the EVP for Research Michael Shelter* School of Nursing Jason Wright* Jean-Marie Bruzzese* Josh Massei, Scholarship & Research Judy Wolf, Student Affairs Lara Philips, Alumni & Development Mairead Moore, Alumni & Development Mary Moran, Clinical Faculty Matthew Richardson, Operations Nick Burry* Pam Pena, HR & Faculty Affairs SEAS Alexis Moore, Civil Engineering Andrei Shylo, Mechanical Engineering Ariel Sanchez, Chemical Engineering Clarissa C. Pena, Computer Science Elizabeth Allende, Earth and Environmental Engineering Eric Ruberte*, Dean's Office Fred Jiang, Data Science Institute Gen Fleming*, Dean's Office James Vicchiconti, Columbia Nano Initiative Michael Smith, Civil Engineering Montse Fernandez Pinkley, Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Natalie Chee, Biomedical Engineering Stan Sakry Susan Ceballo, Electrical Engineering Svitlana Samoilina, Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Yosimir Acosta, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research School of Professional Studies Colette Rodgers Daniel Trotta Studebaker Building April Croft, Finance Ching Gonzalez, CU HR Jesse Irmler, CUIT Jimmy Lucca, Facilities Operations Kate Sheeran*, Finance Mark Medd, Finance Therese Horn, SPA Tiffany Williams, MDG Tom O’Donnell, Facilities Operations SLN Objectives Members of the administration, faculty, and students have collaborated to generate this Sustainability Plan, the University’s first, complete with high-level goals. This Plan highlights a set of strategies that departments, including but not limited to Facilities and Operations, will advance over the next three years. The role of school-based actions in the form of policy and behavior change accelerates the University’s ability to realize its sustainability goals. The primary objective of the SLN is to engage a wide range of stakeholders from across the campus to collaborate in developing and endorsing a set of these actions that can serve to guide Columbia’s schools to foster a culture of sustainability. Once onboarded, SLN participants use the Workspace Certification tool to drive measurable culture change in their schools and/or departments. The experience gained will help other schools to utilize solutions and document progress. Environmental Stewardship looks forward to sharing the progress Columbia is able to make over the course of the coming years through this energizing engagement platform. Expand all Collapse all Sustainable Columbia Workspace Certification Preview — What to Expect If you are a Green Leader, login to Sustainable Columbia Workspaces and complete your self-audit. In support of the University's Sustainability Principles, Columbia is committed to foster a culture of sustainability. The Workplace Certification webform provides a checklist of all the possible actions schools and departments can take at Columbia to support the University's sustainability goals as outlined in our plan. Each section of the checklist links back to the corresponding pages of the Sustainability Plan for further reading. This allows participants to learn the reasons behind—and the impact of—each action, as well as how it relates to the overall vision for Sustainable Columbia. Section 1: Required "Green Zone" Items These are required actions that must be completed as you begin the program. Learn More about this section. Action We have engaged Environmental Stewardship to present to our team about sustainability at Columbia, and how the certification program works. Action This department, school or center has a Green Leader. Action We posted on our social media and/or website that we are participating in the Sustainable Leaders Network Green Office Certification program, and used #SustainableColumbia (we included a team photo, if possible). Action We have information about our office’s environmental efforts, what we are doing to meet the Green Office program standards and/or green tips posted in an easily visible location for staff and visitors to see (such as a bulletin board, or TV monitor). Action We have shown the Columbia recycling video, or other sustainability-focused video to our team. Action We have invited Environmental Stewardship to conduct a Recycling 101 demo, and/or participated in a Recycling Train the Trainer seminar organized by Environmental Stewardship. Section 2: Waste Learn more about this section. We participate in the bi-annual Clean and Go Green events hosted on Low Plaza by: donating old books, clothes, office supplies to the community exchange tent; bringing files to be shredded and recycled; bringing old electronics to be properly recycled. We participate in the bi-annual Clean and Go Green events hosted on Low Plaza by: donating old books, clothes, office supplies to the community exchange tent; bringing files to be shredded and recycled; bringing old electronics to be properly recycled. Before disposing of furniture prior to a workspace move or upgrade, we list our used equipment, furniture and supplies on the Columbia Reuse Website or donate elsewhere. Before disposing of furniture prior to a workspace move or upgrade, we list our used equipment, furniture and supplies on the Columbia Reuse Website or donate elsewhere. We have set a workspace policy to default all our central printers to print double-sided on our computers, and we placed a visual prompt on our copy machine to remind members of our team to double-side copy. We have set a workspace policy to default all our central printers to print double-sided on our computers, and we placed a visual prompt on our copy machine to remind members of our team to double-side copy. We have eliminated desk-top printers in our workspace and route all print jobs to the centralized printer. (One way to do this is to work with the printer vendor to establish a security code system to make printing more secure.) We have eliminated desk-top printers in our workspace and route all print jobs to the centralized printer. (One way to do this is to work with the printer vendor to establish a security code system to make printing more secure.) We reduce paper margins in order to decrease the length of documents we print. We reduce paper margins in order to decrease the length of documents we print. We utilize the 'lock-print' feature on our printer to minimize accidental print jobs and save paper. We utilize the 'lock-print' feature on our printer to minimize accidental print jobs and save paper. We hold zero-waste staff meetings (i.e. send materials in advance, project information on screen instead of providing handouts). We hold zero-waste staff meetings (i.e. send materials in advance, project information on screen instead of providing handouts). We have adapted our workspace policy to use an electronic timesheet system instead of using paper copies. We have adapted our workspace policy to use an electronic timesheet system instead of using paper copies. We use electronic financial reports. We use electronic financial reports. We keep a stack of previously used paper near printers to be used for scratch paper or internal memos, made into notepads, or loaded into a designated a bypass tray on printer for printing internal or draft single-sided documents. (Applicable to printers only where printer paper is accessible to users). We keep a stack of previously used paper near printers to be used for scratch paper or internal memos, made into notepads, or loaded into a designated a bypass tray on printer for printing internal or draft single-sided documents. (Applicable to printers only where printer paper is accessible to users). We have a designated area in our supply closet, or elsewhere in our workspace, for sharing supplies that can be re-used (file folders, binders, pens, paper clips, etc). We have a designated area in our supply closet, or elsewhere in our workspace, for sharing supplies that can be re-used (file folders, binders, pens, paper clips, etc). We remind staff to bring their own mugs and have reusable mugs available for visitors in our workspace. We promote discounts available on campus for those who bring reusable mugs. We remind staff to bring their own mugs and have reusable mugs available for visitors in our workspace. We promote discounts available on campus for those who bring reusable mugs. At our events and meetings: At our events and meetings: We use reusable cups, dishware, and utensils. If we must use disposable items, we make sure that recycling receptacles are present inside the room for all events, and that an announcement is made encouraging the use of these bins. We use reusable cups, dishware, and utensils. If we must use disposable items, we make sure that recycling receptacles are present inside the room for all events, and that an announcement is made encouraging the use of these bins. When we book an event in Lerner Event space (Morningside Campus) or the faculty club (Medical Center Campus), we discuss the availability of to-go containers with our event manager so that event participants may take leftover food. If to-go containers are not an option, we ask the event staff to be sure our leftover food is composted through the building organics program, if applicable. When we book an event in Lerner Event space (Morningside Campus) or the faculty club (Medical Center Campus), we discuss the availability of to-go containers with our event manager so that event participants may take leftover food. If to-go containers are not an option, we ask the event staff to be sure our leftover food is composted through the building organics program, if applicable. In the lunch/break room, we have replaced disposables with permanent ware (mugs, dishes, utensils, etc.) and use refillable or bulk containers for sugar, salt & pepper, ketchup, etc. to avoid individual condiment packets. In the lunch/break room, we have replaced disposables with permanent ware (mugs, dishes, utensils, etc.) and use refillable or bulk containers for sugar, salt & pepper, ketchup, etc. to avoid individual condiment packets. We provide recycling bins in our meeting, conference, and class rooms with the appropriate Sustainable Columbia signage. We provide recycling bins in our meeting, conference, and class rooms with the appropriate Sustainable Columbia signage. There are recycling bins in all common areas where trash bins are present, such as kitchens, break rooms, mailrooms, and copy rooms. There are recycling bins in all common areas where trash bins are present, such as kitchens, break rooms, mailrooms, and copy rooms. We have eliminated desk-side trash containers and switched instead to desk-side recycling, with central trash locations. We have eliminated desk-side trash containers and switched instead to desk-side recycling, with central trash locations. We recycle inkjet and laser jet cartridges back to the manufacturer. We recycle inkjet and laser jet cartridges back to the manufacturer. We recycle our e-waste: on the Morningside Campus at Lerner Hall, or at the Clean and Go Green events offered twice a year; or at CUMC, we submit an IT work ticket. We recycle our e-waste: on the Morningside Campus at Lerner Hall, or at the Clean and Go Green events offered twice a year; or at CUMC, we submit an IT work ticket. We recycle batteries in the designated points on campus. We recycle batteries in the designated points on campus. Section 3: Purchasing Learn more about this section. In an effort to reduce the amount of delivery truck trips to campus and the minimize associated carbon emissions in the neighborhood, we commit to consolidate orders so that we do not make purchases: In an effort to reduce the amount of delivery truck trips to campus and the minimize associated carbon emissions in the neighborhood, we commit to consolidate orders so that we do not make purchases: Less than $50. Less than $50. Less than $100. Less than $100. We purchase copy, computer and fax paper with a minimum of: We purchase copy, computer and fax paper with a minimum of: 30% post consumer waste content (which is priced the same as virgin paper at Columbia). 30% post consumer waste content (which is priced the same as virgin paper at Columbia). 100% post consumer waste content. 100% post consumer waste content. We purchase letterhead, envelopes and business cards with minimum of: We purchase letterhead, envelopes and business cards with minimum of: 30% post consumer waste content. 30% post consumer waste content. 100% post consumer waste content. 100% post consumer waste content. We purchase folders, notepads, post-its or other paper products with a minimum of: We purchase folders, notepads, post-its or other paper products with a minimum of: 10% post consumer recycled content. 10% post consumer recycled content. 30% post consumer recycled content. 30% post consumer recycled content. We purchase only recycled or remanufactured laser and copier toner cartridges. We purchase only recycled or remanufactured laser and copier toner cartridges. We work with Columbia Print to print all copy jobs on 100% recycled paper. We work with Columbia Print to print all copy jobs on 100% recycled paper. If our print job requires that we work with an external printing contractor, we ask that they use: If our print job requires that we work with an external printing contractor, we ask that they use: Paper with 30% post consumer waste content. Paper with 30% post consumer waste content. Paper with 100% post consumer waste content. Paper with 100% post consumer waste content. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified. We use either our caterer's reusable dinnerware or compostable event options. We use either our caterer's reusable dinnerware or compostable event options. We have the caterer provide drinks and snacks in bulk rather than individual containers. We have the caterer provide drinks and snacks in bulk rather than individual containers. We purchase food in bulk trays and avoid purchasing cardboard and plastic-boxed meals. We purchase food in bulk trays and avoid purchasing cardboard and plastic-boxed meals. For new office furniture: For new office furniture: We buy refurbished furniture. We buy refurbished furniture. Any new equipment we purchase is ENERGY STAR rated, if applicable. If ENERGY STAR is not available, we work with our vendor to purchase the most efficient option. Any new equipment we purchase is ENERGY STAR rated, if applicable. If ENERGY STAR is not available, we work with our vendor to purchase the most efficient option. Section 4: Energy Learn more about this section. We have control over our thermostat and keep it set at 68 degrees for heating and 76 degrees for cooling, per the University's guidelines. If we do not have direct control, we've reached out to our building manager to set our thermostat to the above standard. We have control over our thermostat and keep it set at 68 degrees for heating and 76 degrees for cooling, per the University's guidelines. If we do not have direct control, we've reached out to our building manager to set our thermostat to the above standard. We leave clear space in front of all of our radiators and vents. We leave clear space in front of all of our radiators and vents. We do not use space heaters in our workspace. We do not use space heaters in our workspace. We have sleep mode enabled on all copiers and all printers. We have sleep mode enabled on all copiers and all printers. We enabled power management settings on our computers. If changing these setting requires administrative rights, we've contacted our IT group for assistance. We enabled power management settings on our computers. If changing these setting requires administrative rights, we've contacted our IT group for assistance. We shut off our monitors and/or manually send our computers into energy saving modes (standby or hibernate) when not in use. We shut off our monitors and/or manually send our computers into energy saving modes (standby or hibernate) when not in use. We have arranged with our IT group to be able to shut down our computers at night, and it is now a workspace policy to shut down computers at the end of the work day. We have arranged with our IT group to be able to shut down our computers at night, and it is now a workspace policy to shut down computers at the end of the work day. We use power strips and surge protectors with an on/off switch, or 'smart strips' for electronics, chargers, and appliances/devices with digital clocks, and switch them off each night. We use power strips and surge protectors with an on/off switch, or 'smart strips' for electronics, chargers, and appliances/devices with digital clocks, and switch them off each night. We encourage our staff to get rid of outdated computer equipment that no longer meets power standards. We encourage our staff to get rid of outdated computer equipment that no longer meets power standards. We send, or will send, an e-mail to our staff before holidays and breaks containing an energy saving checklist for leaving their workspace. We have this information hanging in a public space as a daily reminder. We send, or will send, an e-mail to our staff before holidays and breaks containing an energy saving checklist for leaving their workspace. We have this information hanging in a public space as a daily reminder. Lights are turned off when not in use during the day and at night, including in common areas such as kitchens, conference rooms, storage closets, and bathrooms. We designate the last person out of the workspace to be responsible for shutting off any lights that were left on. Lights are turned off when not in use during the day and at night, including in common areas such as kitchens, conference rooms, storage closets, and bathrooms. We designate the last person out of the workspace to be responsible for shutting off any lights that were left on. We have dedicated funding toward and/or have worked with Facilities and Operations to install motion sensors. We have dedicated funding toward and/or have worked with Facilities and Operations to install motion sensors. We have posted prompts near light switches reminding staff to shut off bathroom, conference room and workspace lights, etc. when not in use. We have posted prompts near light switches reminding staff to shut off bathroom, conference room and workspace lights, etc. when not in use. Hard-wired lights without on/off switches have been retrofitted to be controllable and provide the appropriate lighting levels (with the exception of emergency lighting). Hard-wired lights without on/off switches have been retrofitted to be controllable and provide the appropriate lighting levels (with the exception of emergency lighting). We have put aside funding for and outfitted all of our workstations and desks have task lights with CFLs or LEDs, which we use when working afterhours, times that the office is mostly empty, or other times when full overhead lighting is not necessary. We have put aside funding for and outfitted all of our workstations and desks have task lights with CFLs or LEDs, which we use when working afterhours, times that the office is mostly empty, or other times when full overhead lighting is not necessary. We have put funding toward replacing our lighting with the more energy-efficient T-8, T-5 or LED fixtures. We have put funding toward replacing our lighting with the more energy-efficient T-8, T-5 or LED fixtures. We turn off lights and use natural lighting when possible. We turn off lights and use natural lighting when possible. We have workspace policy that blinds/shades will be closed during peak summer hours to reduce heat coming in windows, unless using the light for daylighting. We have workspace policy that blinds/shades will be closed during peak summer hours to reduce heat coming in windows, unless using the light for daylighting. We have a workspace policy that blinds/shades will be closed at the end of every day during winter heating season. We have appointed an individual to check that they are closed (as part of larger checklist) every day. We have a workspace policy that blinds/shades will be closed at the end of every day during winter heating season. We have appointed an individual to check that they are closed (as part of larger checklist) every day. We keep windows closed if the heating/cooling system is running. We keep windows closed if the heating/cooling system is running. We check that windows are closed when the workspace is unoccupied (or on holidays/weekends). We check that windows are closed when the workspace is unoccupied (or on holidays/weekends). Microwaves, coffee makers, small appliances, printers, copiers, etc. are unplugged at night, and a designated person checks (as part of a larger checklist) at the end of each day. Or, these appliances are programmed to shut off through a timer or plug load controller. Microwaves, coffee makers, small appliances, printers, copiers, etc. are unplugged at night, and a designated person checks (as part of a larger checklist) at the end of each day. Or, these appliances are programmed to shut off through a timer or plug load controller. We encourage employees and students to take the stairs instead of using the elevator. We encourage employees and students to take the stairs instead of using the elevator. Unless necessary, we do not use the ADA paddlebars on doors to minimize length of time the door is open, and save energy by maintaining the inside air temperature. Unless necessary, we do not use the ADA paddlebars on doors to minimize length of time the door is open, and save energy by maintaining the inside air temperature. We keep areas around thermostats clear/don't locate heat-generating equipment near thermostats (like refridgerators). We keep areas around thermostats clear/don't locate heat-generating equipment near thermostats (like refridgerators). We inform Facilities and Operations if there is bare (uninsulated) heating/cooling piping in our workspace. We inform Facilities and Operations if there is bare (uninsulated) heating/cooling piping in our workspace. If our space has air conditioning but surrounding hallways do not, we keep doors to hallways closed. If our space has air conditioning but surrounding hallways do not, we keep doors to hallways closed. Section 5: Water Learn more about this section. We checked to see if there is an aerator present on our sinks, and if need be, have had Facilities and Operations install a sink aerator with an on/off lever that does not exceed 1.5 gallons per minute. We checked to see if there is an aerator present on our sinks, and if need be, have had Facilities and Operations install a sink aerator with an on/off lever that does not exceed 1.5 gallons per minute. We have designated a person to report any leaks (kitchen, bathroom or lab) to Facilities and Operations immediately. We have designated a person to report any leaks (kitchen, bathroom or lab) to Facilities and Operations immediately. We have budgeted for and use low-flow appliances (toilets, showers, washing machines, etc.) We have budgeted for and use low-flow appliances (toilets, showers, washing machines, etc.) Section 6: Health & Human Wellness Learn more about this section. In our kitchen, we use: In our kitchen, we use: Environmentally preferable, scent-free dishwashing soap. Environmentally preferable, scent-free dishwashing soap. Environmentally preferable all-purpose cleaner in place of harsh chemical cleaners. Environmentally preferable all-purpose cleaner in place of harsh chemical cleaners. We have at least: We have at least: 1 plant per 5 people in our workspace. 1 plant per 5 people in our workspace. 1 plant per 2 people in our workspace. 1 plant per 2 people in our workspace. Section 7: Transportation Learn more about this section. Members of our team are aware of Columbia's transportation demand management options for sustainable commuting alternatives, such as carpool/vanpool, bicycling, and transit news. Information about the applicable programs (including bike maps, car share info, etc.) is displayed permanently in the workspace and/or we send out reminder e-mails at least once per semester. Members of our team are aware of Columbia's transportation demand management options for sustainable commuting alternatives, such as carpool/vanpool, bicycling, and transit news. Information about the applicable programs (including bike maps, car share info, etc.) is displayed permanently in the workspace and/or we send out reminder e-mails at least once per semester. At least 10% of our employees choose a sustainable commute mode. At least 10% of our employees choose a sustainable commute mode. 10% of our employees are enrolled in the below programs: National Bike Challenge, Zagster Bike Share, Citibike, 511 NY Rideshare, guaranteed ride home program, zipcar. 10% of our employees are enrolled in the below programs: National Bike Challenge, Zagster Bike Share, Citibike, 511 NY Rideshare, guaranteed ride home program, zipcar. We have had at least three people from our team submit transportation commute stories and shared them on our social media channels (tag Columbia University Environmental Stewardship and and link to transportation.columbia.edu). We have had at least three people from our team submit transportation commute stories and shared them on our social media channels (tag Columbia University Environmental Stewardship and and link to transportation.columbia.edu). We offer telecommuting opportunities and/or flexible schedules so workers can avoid heavy traffic commutes. We offer telecommuting opportunities and/or flexible schedules so workers can avoid heavy traffic commutes. The following % of our team has filled out Columbia's transportation survey: The following % of our team has filled out Columbia's transportation survey: at least 50% at least 50% 75% or above 75% or above When planning work-related travel, we consult Columbia's transportation website to explore greener transport options. When planning work-related travel, we consult Columbia's transportation website to explore greener transport options. When traveling between campuses, we use the intercampus shuttles. When traveling between campuses, we use the intercampus shuttles. Section 8: Outreach and Engagement Learn more about this section. We have participated in or will host our own power-down/Earth Hour day or hour in our workspace. We have participated in or will host our own power-down/Earth Hour day or hour in our workspace. We have participated or plan to participate in a local, regional, national or international day of action, such as Bike-to-Work Day, Earth Day, etc. We have participated or plan to participate in a local, regional, national or international day of action, such as Bike-to-Work Day, Earth Day, etc. We have solicited feedback from team members about green building features we have or could have in our workspace, such as lighting retrofits, occupancy sensors, dual-flush toilet retrofits, aerators on sinks, green cleaning contracts, etc. A member of our team has shared this feedback with our Building Administrator. We have solicited feedback from team members about green building features we have or could have in our workspace, such as lighting retrofits, occupancy sensors, dual-flush toilet retrofits, aerators on sinks, green cleaning contracts, etc. A member of our team has shared this feedback with our Building Administrator. We inspired another workspace, _________________________________________, to become a sustainable workspace, and use this list of best practices. We inspired another workspace, _________________________________________, to become a sustainable workspace, and use this list of best practices. Someone in our workspace has submitted a story for the Sustainable Columbia newsletter and/or Sustainable Columbia website. Someone in our workspace has submitted a story for the Sustainable Columbia newsletter and/or Sustainable Columbia website. We have successfully implemented additional green projects not listed here in our workspace. List/Describe: We have successfully implemented additional green projects not listed here in our workspace. List/Describe: We recognize staff members for their environmental stewardship efforts. List/Describe: We recognize staff members for their environmental stewardship efforts. List/Describe: Expand all Collapse all Annual Recognition Event for SLN Certified Workspaces 2020 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the awards event was postponed indefinitely, and the last few months of the program were abruptly cut short as employees were taken out of the workspaces they were looking to have certified. Given these challenges, 47 teams (just shy of 40% of all teams) still managed to complete and submit their surveys for the earlier part of the year and achieve certification. 2019 On April 12, 2019, the Office of Environmental Stewardship recognized participants of the Sustainable Leaders Network Workspace Certification Program at the Campus Sustainability Fair in The Forum. Schools and departments were presented with certificates displaying the level of certification reached during this pilot year of the program. Green Teams Certified in 2020 Butler Hall Executive Suite - Gold Strategic Communications - Gold Campus Services Environmental Stewardship - Platinum Executive Suite - Gold Columbia University Facilities and Operations (CUFO) Capital Finance and Administrative Support - Gold CUFO Human Resources - Gold CUFO Information Technology - Gold Finance - Silver General Studies Finance / Human Resources - Gold Graduate School of Arts and Sciences - Green Zone Journalism Prizes - Green Zone Law School Admissions - Silver Building Services - Silver Career Services - Gold CCSI - Bronze Communications - Gold Dean's Office - Green Zone Executive LL.M. - Silver Graduate Legal Studies - Bronze Human Resources - Green Zone Library - Silver Social Justice Initiatives - Silver Student Affairs Administration - Silver Student Services - Silver Mailman Center for Infection and Immunity - Silver Operations - Gold Sociomedical Sciences - Green Zone Physicians and Surgeons Institute for Genomic Medicine- Gold Institute of Human Nutrition - Platinum Office of Development - Silver Orthopedic Surgery - Green Zone School of Engineering and Applied Science APAM - Gold Chem - Gold Dean's Office - Gold EE - Gold Nursing Developmental Psychology - Platinum H.R. and Faculty Affairs - Platinum Marketing and Strategic Communications - Platinum Operations - Gold Scholarship & Research - Platinum Student Affairs - Platinum Students - Platinum School of Professional Studies - Platinum Studebaker Columbia University Human Resources - Platinum Manhattanville Development Group - Silver SPA - Gold The Forum Office of the President - Gold Certified Green Teams Recognized in April 2019 School of Nursing: Platinum School of Professional Studies: Platinum Butler Hall: Gold Public Safety: Gold Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, Low Library: Gold Studebaker Building: Gold Earth Institute, Hogan Hall: Gold School of General Studies: Gold School of Engineering and Applied Sciences: Silver Campus Services: Silver Facilities and Operations HR/Finance/IT: Silver School of Journalism: Silver Law School: Bronze Green Team Photos from 2019 Recognition Event Image Carousel with 11 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Butler Hall, Gold Slide 2: School of Nursing, Platinum Slide 3: General Studies, Gold Slide 4: Public Safety, Gold Slide 5: School of Journalism, Silver Slide 6: Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, Gold Slide 7: School of Professional Studies, Platinum Slide 8: Studebaker Building, Gold Slide 9: Facilities and Operations HR/Finance, Silver Slide 10: Engineering and Applied Science, Gold Slide 11: Earth Institute, Gold Butler Hall, Gold School of Nursing, Platinum General Studies, Gold Public Safety, Gold School of Journalism, Silver Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, Gold School of Professional Studies, Platinum Studebaker Building, Gold Facilities and Operations HR/Finance, Silver Engineering and Applied Science, Gold Earth Institute, Gold Previous Next Resources Participants in the Workspace Certification Program can download these resources to help them promote sustainability in their spaces. Digital Screen Template: 4x3 Digital Screen Template: 16x9 Centralized Trash/Recycling Bin Signage Centralized Trash/Recycling Bin Signage Workspace Peer Review Scorecard SLN Green Event Checklist Recent SLN News July 14, 2020 47 Green Teams Achieved Workspace Certification for 2019-2020 While physical distancing necessitated the postponement of an on-campus ceremony, 40 percent of all Workspace Certification program participants received digital recognition this year. Tags SLNCampus as a Living Lab April 16, 2020 Workspace Certification Program Sees Progress in Year Three In Year Three of the Sustainable Leaders Network (SLN) Workspace Certification program – a checklist of actions deployed to make workspaces more eco-friendly while fostering a culture of sustainability – over 190 Green Leaders have worked toward improving their office or department's sustainability. Tags SLN April 22, 2019 Sustainable Columbia Annual Report Showcases Progress Towards Reducing Environmental Impact and Creating a Healthier Environment With a 47 percent reduction in absolute GHG emissions at the Morningside campus, Columbia has exceeded its goal of cutting emissions by 35 percent over 2006 levels by 2020. Tags ReportsEnergySustainability PlanTransportationWasteSLN More News Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close