Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home About Staff Directory (created August 24, 2017 10:52am) Staff Directory (created August 24, 2017 10:52am) Our Team Environmental Stewardship initiates, coordinates and implements practical programs to reduce the University’s environmental footprint and promotes a culture that values the environment and acts to protect it. The office collaborates with students, staff and neighbors to achieve the University's sustainability goals. Jessica Prata Ms. Prata is the Assistant Vice President in the Office of Environmental Stewardship at Columbia University in New York City. She leads a University-wide initiative that brings together staff, students and faculty to set and achieve goals towards a more Sustainable Columbia. In collaboration with leadership in both University Facilities and Operations and The Earth Institute, Ms. Prata and her team designed a governance model to centralize this important work through a new Senior Sustainability Advisory Committee and a number of focus teams. Together with these key stakeholders, Prata and her team are working to create the University's first three-year sustainability plan. Ms. Prata serves as the Co-Chair of the Ivy Plus Sustainability Consortium, and as an Advisory Board member for the International Sustainable Campus Network (ISCN). Prior to her current role, Ms. Prata served as the first named Corporate Sustainability Officer at NewYork-Presbyterian (NYP), of the top ten hospitals in the nation by US News & World Report where she launched an expansive sustainability program that functioned at both the grassroots and executive level and sparked an organizational shift towards sustainable practices and policy. Under her leadership, NYP received myriad environmental excellence awards from Practice Greenhealth between 2009 and 2013, as well as Energy Star awards from the Environmental Protection Agency. Previously, Ms. Prata helped manage the environment of care regulatory efforts at NYP after serving as a senior fundraiser for Weill Cornell Medical Center. Before transitioning to healthcare, Ms. Prata held positions specializing in corporate broadcast communications. Ms. Prata received a Bachelor of Arts degree at Colgate University, and a Masters of Public Administration degree at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). Janice Erskine Janice Erskine has been a Columbia University employee for 23 years. In her present position as Office Manager in Environmental Stewardship, she manages accounts, oversees contracts and change orders, assists with communications among department members and scans electronic and print media for their latest sustainability reports. She also oversees the calendar and travel expenses for the deparment. She started at Columbia in a medical billing office at Harlem Hospital, then was promoted to Practice Plan Coordinator in the Psychiatry Department of Harlem Hospital. From there Erskine became executive assistant to the assistant director of psychiatry. She moved to her position at Environmental Stewardship about a year ago from Billing Supervisor at Harlem Hospital when that department was outsourced. Erskine's commitment to her work at Columbia is reflected in a daily 188-mile round trip commute from her home in Tannersville, Pa. Helen L. Bielak Helen Bielak is Environmental Stewardship's Operations Manager. One of Bielak's current projects is working with Institution Recycling Network, a cooperative that works largely with educational and health care institutions, helping them manage their recycling and reuse efforts. As manager of the surplus Reuse Program, Bielak acts as a matchmaker of sorts, learning about items available for reuse and finding channels for linking them with recipients on campus, in the Morningside neighborhood and in other parts of the world. The Surplus Reuse Program is a centralized resource in Columbia's growing effort to keep as much material as possible out of landfills. Bielak's career in facilities management – both in private industry and at Columbia University – has been its own course in sustainability. Over the years she's integrated countless principles and practices, applying them in her current position. Bielak came to Columbia in 1999, as Building Operations Manager for the University Residence Halls department. Her pioneering work with the University's "greening" began shortly thereafter, with the renovation of the East Campus townhouses. Over the years, training has been a significant part of her work. Most recently she has been introducing new employees to environmental stewardship efforts at Columbia as a presenter in Human Resources' Learning and Development orientation program. This fall she has done similar programs for the Medical, Dental and Public Health Schools on the Columbia University Medical School campus, and for Arts and Sciences, Student Services, SEAS, Columbia College, International Studies, Columbia Business and Law Schools, and the RA Training Program - all on the Morningside campus. Bielak and Catherine Resler, Recycling and Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programs Manager, have also been working on environmental audits with personnel at Columbia University Press, Studebaker, and CUMC residence halls. Under Facilities' auspices, Bielak worked on the organization of Dumpster Days, in which faculty and staff was encouraged to clean their work places, with emphasis on recycling. In recent years, Dumpster Days have evolved into Give & Go Green, a collaborative effort among Eco-Reps, Housing & Dining, and Facilities, with huge amounts of donations going to local agencies rather than into landfills. Daniel Allalemdjian Daniel Allalemdjian is the Director of Transportation Demand Management at Columbia University. His role is to establish and promote commuter initiatives that allow Columbia University staff, faculty and students to switch to alternative travel modes that are efficient, convenient, fast and affordable. All with the aim of reducing traffic congestion and environmental impact. Whether it’s making way for bicycle infrastructure, developing new shuttle routes, coordinating rideshare arrangements or advising on transit routes, Dan’s continually looking to improve Columbia’s commute. Before joining Columbia University, Dan worked for the Massachusetts Department of Transportation developing and implementing commuter initiatives at worksites across Massachusetts. He worked with a range of Massachusetts organizations that received awards for their commuter initiatives. Allie Madison Schwartz Allie Madison Schwartz is the Assistant Director of Planning and Outreach for Environmental Stewardship at Columbia University. She is primarily responsible for strategic planning with key stakeholders from around the university, collecting, managing and analyzing sustainability data, and overseeing outreach and engagement for the office. Allie manages Columbia's Sustainable Leaders Network (SLN) Workspace Certification Program, Columbia’s submission of the AASHE STARS report, and Columbia’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory submission to The Climate Registry (TCR). Additionally, she works with faculty and staff from around the university to manage the flow of projects and ensure their timely role out and assimilation. Prior to joining ES, Allie worked with the Columbia Facilities department, focusing mainly on the NYC PlaNYC Carbon Challenge, and managing the Greenhouse Gas Energy Inventory. She studied at Columbia for both her undergraduate and graduate career, earning her B.S. in Environmental Science and her M.S. in Sustainability Management. Sort Department Group Function Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close