Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Reducing Consumption and Sorting Waste Help reduce landfill waste by recycling, donating and composting. Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Recycling Trash Buddy Composting Electronic & Special Waste Donation Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities Reducing Consumption and Sorting Waste Help reduce landfill waste by recycling, donating and composting. To continue progress toward the University’s waste diversion goal, we rely on all Brown community members to reduce their consumption of nonreusable items — such as disposable coffee cups and plastic wrap — and to properly sort their waste. Sort Your Waste Brown separates most waste into five streams: general recycling, landfill waste, compost, electronic or special waste and donations. By sorting your waste you are actively preventing reusable and/or hazardous material from entering Rhode Island’s one and only landfill. Throwing recyclable materials into the trash is a tremendous waste. At the same time, just a few trash items thrown into recycling bins could lead to an entire load of recycling being rejected and sent to the landfill. In order to divert as much waste as possible from the landfill, Brown relies upon all of its community members to properly sort their waste. Recycling Single stream recycling means one container for all recyclables. Visit Page Open details for Recycling Trash Buddy A right-sized container for landfill trash. Visit Page Open details for Trash Buddy Composting Transforming organic materials such as food waste into a nutrient-rich, natural fertilizer. Visit Page Open details for Composting Electronic and Special Waste Depending on the material, there are a few options available to properly dispose of your electronic and special waste. Visit Page Open details for Electronic and Special Waste Donation Reduce waste and help those in need. Visit Page Open details for Donation Reduce Your Consumption Making new products requires energy and materials, which can contribute to greenhouse gas emissions and pollution. And while recycling helps to reduce landfill waste, that requires energy, too. One of the most impactful ways to contribute to a more sustainable world is to simply reduce our consumption of new goods. Eating and Drinking Shopping Lawn Care Eating and Drinking Instead of buying a single-use water bottle, invest in a reusable water bottle that you can fill at one of the many filling stations on campus. Brown is a plastic water bottle-free campus. Pro tip: Save money and avoid waste by bringing a reusable mug to the Blue Room and local coffee shops. Avoid more single-use plastic by bringing your own set of reusable utensils and straws to takeout dining halls like Andrews. Shopping If you need new items during move-in, check out platforms like Brown Buying and Selling, where you can buy used from community members. Or go on a shopping spree to the many secondhand shops Providence has to offer. Say no to plastic and paper bags at the supermarket by using your own reusable bags. Avoid plastic packaging at the supermarket when possible by filling up your own dishes with bulk items. Whole Foods, Urban Greens Co-op Market, and farmers markets like Farm Fresh RI make it easier to avoid excessive plastic packaging. Lawn Care If you need large lawn equipment like mowers, tillers and chainsaws, set up a sharing program with your neighbors. Instead of buying bagged fertilizer, leave grass clippings in your yard where they will decompose and return nutrients to the soil. You can also compost your food and add the finished product to your garden soil. Play the Trash Dash Waste Sorting Game Test your knowledge of waste-sorting with the student-created Trash Dash computer game! Sort your way through Andrews Commons, Sharpe Refectory and Josiah’s and beat bosses along the way. Play Now Green Packing List Before coming to Brown in the fall, check out our green packing list below to learn how you can make sustainable purchases, where you can find green products and what you can get for free at Brown. See the list Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reducing Consumption and Sorting Waste Open details for Reducing Consumption and Sorting Waste Bookmark this Page