Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Services Comprehensive Recycling Program Comprehensive Recycling Program In support of a commitment to environmental sustainability, Columbia University executes an extensive recycling initiative, driven by key departments across its campuses. What can YOU do? Become familiar with the NYC Recycling Rules! Learn about the recycling practices at Columbia What to throw, and where? Understanding proper waste segregation is crucial to a successful recycling program at Columbia. Do you know what to recycle and which is the proper bin to dispose of your waste? Transcript 0:00 Recycling 101. 0:02 We come from all over the world to Columbia University. 0:06 This place is our home, and together we help take care of it by recycling. 0:11 It's the Columbia thing to do. 0:12 Seventy-five percent of trash is recyclable. 0:15 But only about 30 percent makes it to the recycle bin. 0:18 Let's do better. 0:19 New York City recycles in two streams. 0:21 Mixed paper and cardboard, which go in the green bins, and metal, glass, plastic and 0:26 cartons, which go in the blue bins. 0:29 Bins are in every Columbia building, usually in the lobby and hallway. 0:33 Staples and tape on paper are okay. 0:35 But paper towels, tissues and wet, sticky or otherwise icky materials should be thrown out. 0:42 Rinse metal, glass, plastic and cartons before recycling. 0:46 Styrofoam, shower curtains, toothpaste tubes and disposable razors? 0:50 Dump them. 0:52 Don't forget to donate your clothes and shoes to Wearable Collections, using the designated 0:56 bins throughout the res halls. 0:58 Plastic shopping bags can be recycled in your buildings. 1:01 And take batteries, lightbulbs, electronics and hardcover books to the recycling station 1:05 in the Lerner lobby. 1:07 Now you know where to throw! 1:08 That wasn't so bad, right? What is Columbia Doing? The more Columbia recycles, the more we save money and contribute to a sustainable environment. Environmental Stewardship works with campus partners such as Environmental Health and Safety and Columbia Facilities to improve the University's recycling efforts. In recent years, the community recycled hundreds of tons of mixed paper and cardboard, 155 tons of electronics, 45 tons of lamps, 20 tons of batteries, tens of tons of glass, metal, and plastic, and much more. Related Programs and Initiatives Paper & Cardboard Recycling Glass, Metal & Plastic Recycling Electronics Recycling Lighting (Flourescent Lamps & Other Mercury-Containing Devices) Recycling Battery Recycling Lab Material Recycling Printer Cartridge Recycling Medical Waste Recycling Trash & Bulk Waste Compost Office Furniture ReUse Program Audience Students Faculty Staff Categories Waste Culture Change Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close