Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Overview Universities are uniquely poised to pursue a multidisciplinary approach for engaging students and faculty to help solve real-world problems on campus. Using campus as a living lab helps to foster collaboration between students, faculty, and staff, brings the cutting-edge research of the University to the operations of campus, and provides a chance to teach students to be sustainability leaders of the future. To foster a culture of sustainability for faculty and staff within workspaces on Columbia’s campuses, the first plan called for the creation of the Sustainable Leaders Network and corresponding Workplace Certification Program. This program has engaged over 200 active participants across all campuses on an individual and departmental level. To engage students, the University frequently serves as a client for student capstone and senior thesis projects. This allows for a deeper understanding of the operations of the University, and applies the talented minds of Columbia students in solving real-world problems. Expand all Collapse all Goals and Strategies Enhance the sustainability literacy of the University community. Collaborate with the Student Campus Culture group, formed as part of the Plan 2030 planning process, to curate ideas for the development of a student sustainability literacy program that will educate all Columbia students about the basics of climate change, how Columbia is taking action, and what students can do to take action themselves. Phase I: (Spring 2021) Develop a proposal that outlines: Mechanisms for reaching the student body (format of the program). Communication plan for outreach to students. Phase II: (Fall 2021) Prepare program and plan for launch. Phase III: (By 2023) More robust, mature program is in place. Continue to monitor each year. Empower students to identify and implement mechanisms to change the culture on campus. Expand methods for students to engage with campus operations each semester, through capstone work, senior theses, or other opportunities. Build a demonstration project where students can engage with campus to better understand operations by 2022. Expand all Collapse all Progress to Date Since the launch of the first sustainability plan, the Sustainable Leaders Network Workspace Certification program has grown to over 200 active participants from the Morningside, Manhattanville, and Medical Center campuses. The University has also actively engaged with students through graduate and undergraduate capstone projects and senior theses, exploring a range of topics from water conservation to transportation emissions reduction strategies. Learn More Sustainable Leaders Network Workspace Certification Program Read about past capstones here CUIMC-Specific Commitments CUIMC is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. LDEO-Specific Commitments LDEO is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. Topics: Culture Change & Campus as a Living Lab Comprehensive Recycling Program Compost Green Monday Give & Go Green Collection of Commute Data Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Energy Conservation Education ReUse Program Sort Department Audience Categories Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Services, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter edit edit edit edit Recent News: Culture Change & Campus as a Living Lab April 11, 2022 Spring 2022 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter To receive this newsletter in your inbox, sign up on the Transportation website. Tags TransportationBicycle Interest GroupCampus as a Living Lab October 29, 2021 Columbia University Joins Global “Race to Zero” Pledging Immediate Action Against Climate Change Columbia’s commitment to reach net zero by 2050 or sooner and its new sustainability plan qualify the university for participation in this global challenge. Tags Plan 2030EnergyTransportationWasteCampus as a Living LabConstruction & Design September 09, 2021 Fall 2021 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter To receive this newsletter in your inbox, sign up on the Transportation website. Tags TransportationBicycle Interest GroupCampus as a Living Lab More News Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close