Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Brown is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2040, with 75% reductions by 2025. Breadcrumb Home Our Commitments Sub Navigation In This Section Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Brown is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2040, with 75% reductions by 2025. The scientific consensus makes it clear that the only way to avoid the most catastrophic effects of climate change is for the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to zero as quickly as possible. It is critical for Brown to lead by example in showing that large, complex institutions can develop clear and realistic paths toward net-zero emissions. Brown is committed to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2040, with a 75% reduction by 2025. The path to net-zero emissions will be Brown’s largest-ever investment in sustainability, and the work is well underway. The future site of a 50-megawatt (DC) solar facility in a former gravel pit in North Kingstown, R.I., that will offset 70% of campus electricity. In 2019 and 2021, Brown entered into three renewable electricity purchase agreements and one market-based wind project that will offset 100% of Brown’s on-campus electricity use through 2025. Electricity usage accounts for around forty percent of the University’s campus emissions. A 50-megawatt (DC) solar facility in a former gravel pit in North Kingstown, R.I., will offset the majority of campus electricity. The remaining will be offset by two smaller R.I. solar projects and an agreement with a Texas-based wind farm, which began operating in summer 2020. Those projects, along with a thermal efficiency project completed in 2020, will cut campus emissions by approximately 27,000 metric tons per year — the equivalent of taking 5,800 cars off the road. In the coming years, Brown will take steps to convert its central heating plant from natural gas to renewably sourced electricity, which, coupled with additional renewable electricity purchases, will eliminate much of Brown’s remaining campus emissions. Before that can happen, campus buildings and heating infrastructure must be renovated. This is a major challenge for a campus with buildings dating back to the late 1700s. However, doing so will help the University eliminate the vast majority of its remaining emissions. To meet Brown’s 2025 goal of a 75% reduction from a 2018 baseline Brown must address the natural gas usage at the central heat plant. To meet this goal Brown will enter into a purchasing verified refrigerant destruction offsets – offsets that will quantifiably remove emissions from the atmosphere. While the University’s vehicle fleet accounts for only a small fraction of campus emissions, Brown will take steps to electrify the fleet and deploy charging stations across campus. The actions outlined cover the direct emissions produced on campus. The University also commits to quantifying indirect emissions from activities such as commuting and work-related travel, and developing targets for reduction. All emissions reductions will be verified by third parties, including the Climate Registry, to ensure consistency and accuracy in reporting. Related data Brown's Portion of Texas Wind Farm Electricity Generation Degree Days and Monthly Utility Usage Related Academic Research Energy Research & Social Science Faster and steeper is feasible: Modeling deeper decarbonization in a Northeastern U.S. State July 8, 2020 This study involved a team consisting of university researchers and the research institute that originally developed modeling in a consulting role for the state of Rhode Island, to assess the viability of more rapid decarbonization pathways for Northeastern U.S. states. The goal was to provide new insights on possibilities and challenges for major economic sectors like housing, transportation, and industrial emissions. Read Article Open details for Faster and steeper is feasible: Modeling deeper decarbonization in a Northeastern U.S. State Watson Institute A Climate Agenda for the Next US President October 21, 2020 Human-driven climate change will continue to be one of the greatest threats we face, as a country and as a planet. Read Article Open details for A Climate Agenda for the Next US President Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Open details for Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Bookmark this Page