Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Sustainable Transportation Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Columbia commits to reduce drive-alone commuters and grow car-free connections to campus. Transportation Commitment Areas Campus Fleet Business Travel Freight Emissions Overview Columbia’s location in New York City offers access to a compressive and rapid transit system. The University has also significantly invested in nearby housing for students and faculty. These factors, among others, allow the University to boast an incredibly low and ever-decreasing drive-alone commute rate. This downward trend is due in part to the University’s transportation demand management (TDM) program, which aims to allow for continued work and study with a growing campus, with an eye toward reducing cars from commuting to campus, reducing congestion, and improving air quality in the Morningside Heights community. The University continually works with local, state, and city officials to improve bikeability and provide alternatives to driving for students and employees. The University has already made great strides in this area, but continues to set aggressive reduction targets around emissions from commuting to actively improve the air quality of the surrounding community and to set an example as a climate leader for other businesses in the New York Metro area. Expand all Collapse all Goals and Strategies Reduce Columbia's commute associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and eliminate single occupancy vehicles (SOV) commuting to campus. Interim goal: Reduce the percent of Columbia members choosing a drive-alone commute to below 8% employees and 0.5% students by 2030, and near to zero by 2040. Accelerate the adoption of Columbia’s Flexible Working Arrangement (FWA) policy to reduce commute trips and demand during peak travel periods by 2021. Add additional electric vehicle (EV) charging ports in University parking garages. Create a plan for expansion by 2023. Offset emissions that cannot be reduced. Identify projects and credits that meet Columbia’s offset criteria, finalized in 2021. Improve access to Columbia, allowing for growth without adding pressure to parking and traffic congestion by adopting safe and sustainable mobility options that lead by example and contribute to the livability of NYC. Make facilities and programming improvements to further encourage and enable safe pedestrian and bicycle travel to campus, such as through added bike parking. Increase carpool/vanpool incentives. Grow car-free connections to campus, such as through expanded bike lanes and pedestrian safety enhancements in partnership with the city/state. Adjust parking policies and pricing to incentivize a commute mode shift to sustainable options by 2023. Progress to Date Prior to 2018, there was little centrally-tracked data around commute emissions. Central to the University’s transportation goals in the first sustainability plan was the tracking and reporting of data that would enable the University to get a more accurate picture of its overall emissions, including Scope 3. As a result of that work, the University is now able to report figures and draw graphs like those that follow: As of 2019, commute emissions account for almost 10% of University emissions (Morningside+, Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO)). Learn More Learn more about Columbia’s approach to offsets. CUIMC-Specific Commitments CUIMC is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. LDEO-Specific Commitments LDEO is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. Back to Plan 2030 About Plan 2030 Executive Summary Introduction Progress to Date Climate Leadership Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Commitment Areas Campus Energy Sustainable Transportation Responsible Design and Construction Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Responsible Materials Management Water Conservation and Capture Appendix Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets Environmental Justice Senior Sustainability Advisory Committee (SSAC) and Working Group Members Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close