Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters: Search Buttons Search This Site Search Cornell Main MenuSearch Sustainability Map News Events Subscribe Home Our Leadership Our History Governance Sustainability Framework Sustainability Plan Climate Action Plan Campus Initiatives Annual Reporting Living Laboratory Buildings & Energy Food Land & Water Purchasing and Waste Human Wellbeing Transportation Take Action Student Resources Employee Resources Event Certification Green Office & Lab Program Green Teams & Ambassadors Annual Events Awards About Campus Sustainability Office Jobs & Opportunities Partnerships Sustainability Teams Take Action Student Resources Employee Resources Event Certification Green Office & Lab Program Green Teams & Ambassadors Think Big, Live Green Sustainability Ambassadors Annual Events Awards Home Take Action Sustainability Teams Sustainability Teams Sustainability Teams or “Green Teams” are teams of staff working to create a culture of sustainability where they work on campus. Teams are created to focus on sustainability change in specific departments, colleges, and units. What do Teams do? Sustainability Teams or “Green Teams” help to create a culture of sustainability where they work by supporting key programming and campaigns for a more sustainable campus and community. Teams are created to focus on sustainability change in specific departments, colleges, and units, but can be any size! Some teams focus on updating signage or behaviors in offices and shared spaces, while others create events or invite speakers to strengthen their community's knowledge of sustainability & climate topics. Key activities include: Program for Individuals The Sustainability Ambassadors are open to any individual working to create a sustainable campus How will you create a culture of sustainability where you work? Sustainability Leaders Network Teams & Ambassadors are part of a shared Sustainability Leaders Network. Join the listserv to stay up to date on new initiatives, and share your resources. Join the Sustainability Leaders Network Listserv Creating a culture of sustainability where they work Creating programs to support Cornell's annual Sustainability Events: Energy Smackdown Winter & Spring Energy Setbacks Recyclemania Sustainability Month Recognizing sustainability leadership with awards Implementing Think Big, Live Green (TBLG) Networking through the Sustainability Leaders Network listserv Participating in the annual Green Team Summit Think Big, Live Green Think Big, Live Green is a structured set of campaigns to encourage thoughtful decisions about environmental impact, and actions to built healthier communities and was designed using community-based social marketing principles. Campaigns are designed to help Cornell achieve carbon neutrality, sustainability goals, and to support the creation of responsible, diverse, and inclusive environments. Branding Materials Are you a member of a Team? Access the branding materials for Sustainability Teams (requires NetID login). Join a Team Join and gain the knowledge, tools and leadership skills to inspire sustainable practices in a fun and engaging environment. Teams are open to staff, faculty, and students and are geared towards change in the workplace, our buildings, and living spaces. To join a team, email the lead member listed below: College of Human Ecology To join this team contact: Kristine Mahoney The College of Human Ecology team was the first to launch at Cornell and has a Building Energy Scoreboard to help members of their community participate in energy-saving and carbon-reducing competitions, several regular campaigns including CHE's Got Sole (Shoe Donation Drive), Upcycled Art Exhibit, and a Electronics Recycling Drive during Recyclemania, and a CHE Sustainability Blog. College of Veterinary Medicine To join this team contact: Nicole Woodhull The College of Veterinary Medicine team launched in 2018 Cornell and has it's own Vet School Building Energy Scoreboard to help members of their community participate in energy-saving and carbon-reducing competitions. Facilities & Campus Services To join this team contact: David Vanderpoorten FCS supports activities in the Humphreys Service Building, and organizes events to help reduce paper & energy waste. The team manages the Humph-Frees Exchange Office Supply Closet. Big Red Barn To join this team contact: Jennifer Forbes Winner of a 2019 Cornell University Partners in Sustainability Award. Weill Cornell Medicine Sustainability Council To join this team contact: wcm-sustainability@med.cornell.edu Weill Cornell Medicine campus-wide sustainability efforts are managed through the Sustainability Leadership Council. The council is comprised of employees from central administration as well as from clinical departments. The council leads sustainability planning and coordinates efforts across departments to reduce waste and conserve energy. Human Resources To join this team contact: Amy Layton Lab of Ornithology To join this team contact: Vanessa Powell Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art To join this team contact: Laura Libert Office of the Judicial Administrator To join this team contact: Steve Morey Cornell Tech To join this team contact: Haley Bissegger Launch a Team Contact the Sustainability Engagement Manager to get started. Teams are most successful when they start with 1-2 passionate individuals, work towards support from their senior leadership, and a willingness to adopt 1-2 projects per year to improve sustainability in the workplace. What's Happening Around Campus All News May 3 Materials Management Students Join student clubs for Sustainability Field Day, May 7th Apr 22 Climate Leadership Students Medium article shows how to live more sustainably as a Cornell student Apr 20 Materials Management Staff & Faculty Students Book a compost crew for your next campus event Apr 18 Building & Energy Climate Leadership Campus energy reduction campaigns drive results in 2021 and 2022 Mar 24 Materials Management Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Tip Mar 23 Building & Energy Students Join the Freezer Challenge 2022 Feb 9 Students Creative memes wanted for Beyond Waste competition Dec 3 Climate Leadership Revealing climate change inequities, redress, and environmental justice Stay Connected Cornell Sustainability @sustaincornell RT @CornellNews: Expand #ClimateAction: Mitigation strategies must target #carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic #climate tipping points. #ClimateEmergency @PNASNews @CornellCALS https://t.co/eQmRxDqG1k Sustainable Cornell Facebook Sustainable Cornell Instagram Sustainable Campus Contact Us 129 Humphreys Service Building Ithaca, NY 14853 PHONE 607-255-6375 EMAIL sustainability@cornell.edu Quick Links About News Events Participate Find Your Opportunity Webmaster Login Newsletter Subscription Sign Up © 2022 Campus Sustainability Office, Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.