Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia Home “…I write to state our commitment to becoming net zero by 2050, with the hope, and expectation, of arriving at that point even earlier." -President Lee C. Bollinger Sustainability Plan Progress Report 2021-2022 Welcome to Sustainable Columbia Columbia University commits to net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner. At Columbia, we recognize that to be truly sustainable is to take a multi-faceted and multi-tiered approach. We are looking to tackle climate and sustainability issues through world-renowned research occurring right here on our campus, engaging staff leadership and individual participation. Ranging from energy conservation efforts to award-winning reuse programs and recycling efforts, we're dedicated to creating a more sustainable planet for all. Columbia's New Sustainability Plan: Plan 2030 Columbia University released a new sustainability plan on Earth Day, covering 2021 through 2030. Called "Plan 2030," this is Columbia’s roadmap to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions. Read the plan to learn more! News April 22, 2022 Relaunch of Sustainable Events at Columbia in Honor of Earth Month As events and in-person activities resume on campus, there are resources available to you to ensure your preparations support the University’s commitment to sustainability. Tags Sustainable Events April 22, 2022 Plan 2030 Year One Annual Report (2021 - 2022) is Released on Earth Day Columbia’s ten-year sustainability plan, Plan 2030, completes its first full year this Earth Day. We are proud to share with you the Sustainable Columbia Plan 2030: Year One Progress Report and highlight the work being done across the University to contribute to a more sustainable future. Tags Reports April 22, 2022 Transitioning to Zero Emission Vehicle Columbia Parking Areas As Columbia continues to implement the sustainability commitments outlined in Plan 2030, we write to announce Columbia’s future plans to gradually transition Columbia-managed parking areas for use by zero emission vehicles (ZEVs) only, phasing out access for internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles such as gas and diesel vehicles. Tags Transportation More News Make a Difference Today Every member of the Columbia community has a role to play in achieving our sustainability goals. Learn how you can make a difference and help build a healthier, more sustainable Columbia. recycle icon Reduce, reuse, and recycle Learn what you can recycle at Columbia. Donate and swap unwanted items during Clean + Go Green and Give + Go Green events. Use the surplus re-use program to donate or re-use office furniture and equipment. Taste, don't waste — practice mindfulness when selecting food in the dining halls and other eating establishments around campus. automobile icon Walk, bike, or use alternative transportation Try out Citi Bike, available on and near Columbia's campuses. Bike to work and store your ride in Columbia's secure bicycle parking areas. Ride the Intercampus Shuttle, which you can track in real time using the Passio Go! app, or the on-demand Evening Shuttle powered by Via to get around campus at night. Visit the Transportation website for more sustainable commute options. group icon Volunteer to lead sustainable change Join a sustainability-focused student club or get involved in the Sustainable Leaders Network. Join the Workspace Certification Program with your office, school, or department to make your workspace a little greener. Take advantage of existing programs in your living space or lab. wrench icon Report drips and window leaks Submit a maintenance request to make your space more comfortable and efficient. lightbulb icon Reduce energy and electricity use Turn off lights, power down, and unplug electronics when not in use, especially during nights and breaks. coffee icon Use a reusable mug or bottle Get discounts on coffee and use filtered water stations across campus to refill your bottle. graduation-cap icon Learn it Browse the Earth Institute’s Course Guide and events calendar to learn about environmental studies from some of the world’s best. tint icon Wash clothes in cold Washing in cold or "bright colors" uses 90% less energy than washing in hot and it preserves the life of your clothes. clock icon Take shorter showers By reducing your shower time you can help save water and the energy used to heat the water. cutlery icon Adopt healthy, sustainable lifestyle habits Take the Green Monday pledge to learn how to make slight shifts in your lifestyle, starting with what you eat, which can help to reduce your environmental impact. eye icon Brand it Are you putting together a sustainability event or initiative on campus? Brand your posters, powerpoints and flyers with the Sustainable Columbia logo to join the movement. Contact Environmental Stewardship to learn about the branding guidelines. download icon Read the Sustainability Plans Learn more about Columbia's campus-wide plan to become a more sustainable community. Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close