Skip to main content University of Southern California Sustainability Primary Menu Assignment: Earth Plastic Water Bottles Take Action Directory Making Progress News Sustainability News Highlights Events Calendar Earth Week Green Commencement Partners MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search Homepage Sustainability Fellowship for Undergraduates Apply by July 1 Climate report commands action from policymakers USC Faculty respond Climate report commands action from policymakers Commencement Goes Green Learn more Commencement Goes Green! Locate green campus resources Map it! Locate green campus resources Eliminating single-use plastic bottles on campus Campaign Update Eliminating Single-Use Plastic Bottles Assignment: Earth Learn about USC's sustainability framework Assignment: Earth USC aims to go carbon neutral by 2025 View Announcement USC aims to go carbon neutral by 2025 Sustainability Map Carbon Footprint Calculator Green Your Office Make Your Event Sustainable Sustainability Highlights When Will Space Flight Be As Safe as Air Flight? USC Viterbi adjunct professor Michael Kezirian explains why advancing space safety and sustainability measures advances space exploration. 2022 Graduate Yun Li Awarded Top PhD Honor for Exemplary Research Yun Li researches the impact of energy system decarbonization and land surface properties on urban air quality in southern California. USC Viterbi-Led Team Wins $15 Million NSF Expeditions in Computing Award U.S. National Science Foundation’s award will fund USC’s work to address scaling challenges and significant power demands in computing. How do we warn future generations about our toxic waste? In the New Humanist, USC’s Vincent Ialenti says nuclear energy’s toxic waste requires communicating with people 10,000 years in the future. More Highlights USC Sustainability News Meet the USC badminton star who wants to make ethical and sustainable gear COMMENCEMENT 2022: USC Viterbi graduate Saket Venkatesh is harnessing his industrial and systems engineering skills to develop badminton shuttlecocks that avoid animal cruelty and cut waste. President Folt encourages business sustainability class to ‘engage people’s hearts’ The president — a biologist — notes that diverse perspectives are key to creating a more sustainable future, whether students come from backgrounds in business, engineering or the arts. Laguna Niguel fire signals start of a long wildfire season in California USC experts predict wildfire threat to grow in coming years, but see hope in new mitigation methods. 5 ways USC commencement is cleaner and greener COMMENCEMENT 2022: The goal for commencement ceremony venues is to be zero-waste — or as close to zero-waste as possible. More News Join the Conversation Social Media Wall Events and Activities McKinsey Sector Spotlight – Global Energy and Materials (GEM) Wed, Jun 1 from 3:00 pm-4:00 pm USC ISI Artificial Intelligence Seminar: Data Science, A.I., Air Pollution, and Climate Change Fri, Jun 3 from 11:00 am-12:00 pm "Trump, Biden, and the Battle for America's Future" with Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns Fri, Jun 3 from 12:00 pm M.S. in Global Medicine Information Session Fri, Feb 18 through Fri, Jun 24 More Events Making Progress Sustainable Dining 41% of USC hospitality food purchases are sustainably sourced. Reducing Plastic Pollution 205 water bottle refill stations located across UPC and HSC campuses. More Progress Sustainable Purchasing USC recognizes the opportunity to exercise environmental responsibility through purchasing decisions and is committed to balancing environmentally and fiscally responsible purchasing. Buy Green University of Southern CaliforniaCopyright © 2022 Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Smoke-Free Policy