Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Sustainable Columbia Sustainable Columbia Sustainable Columbia is the brand identity for Columbia University’s campus sustainability initiative, centralized through the Environmental Stewardship office and executed by a variety of University departments and projects. The Sustainable Columbia mark visually connects the many programs on campus that contribute to the success of our campus sustainability efforts by helping meet the goals set forth in this Plan. Environmental Stewardship Team Environmental Stewardship initiates, coordinates and implements practical programs to reduce the University’s environmental footprint and promotes a culture that values the environment and acts to protect it. The office collaborates with students, staff and neighbors to achieve the University's sustainability goals. Meet our team About the Sustainability Plan General Scope of the Plan The scope of the goals, strategies, and steps set forth in this Plan is limited to the University’s Morningside campus. This Plan has a three-year (2017-2020) temporal scope focused on strategies that will help advance the campus toward the outlined sustainability goals by 2020. Where applicable, goals look to align with city and state policy. All goals will be revisited over the next three years to determine if they need to be adjusted or re-aligned to meet the ever-evolving policy landscape. Columbia Sustainability Plan: 2017–2020 Morningside Campus Plan: The Columbia Sustainability Plan provides a high-level overview of three-year goals and the strategies that will enable the University to achieve them. Additionally, this Plan provides background information on prior successes that have allowed the University to progress to where a formalized plan was necessary to capture all past work and outline the road ahead. Morningside Campus Progress Reports: Over the next three years, Columbia will release at least one progress report per calendar year. Additional information about how this Plan will be tracked can be found in the Tracking and Reporting section. Columbia Sustainability Plan: Beyond 2020 As mentioned in the Plan’s principles, Columbia is committed to a long-term strategy to address sustainability. This Plan continues through 2020 with the expectation that another plan will be released closer to 2020 to move the University forward. Inclusion of the Medical Center and Lamont-Doherty Campuses Representatives from the Medical Center and Lamont-Doherty participated on the focus teams that generated these goals and strategies, and therefore helped shape them. At each of their campuses, they are advancing their own variety of initiatives, many of which align with the goals set forth in this Plan. Two dedicated sections in this Plan, one for each campus, highlight these details. View the Sustainability Plan View the Sustainability Plan on ISSUU Download a PDF of the Sustainability Plan Follow Us on Social Media Facebook: @SustainableColumbia Twitter: @SustainablCU Instagram: @sustainablecolumbia 212-854-7046 [email protected] Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close