Skip Navigation SUSTAINABILITY Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks Welcome Welcome to Sustainability Contact Us Give Academics Curriculum Research Outreach Operations Recycling Transportation Get Involved Quick Tips Students Faculty Staff & Administration Presentation, Tours, & Events Sustainability Column Donate OSU ranked top 10 nationally for contributions to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Oklahoma State receives STARS Silver Rating for Sustainability Achievements For the latest news and information on sustainability at OSU, please visit our Campus Link page! We get asked to define sustainability all the time, and the answer to that question is vast and fantastically complicated. Every person in our office or even every person that you ask will give you a slightly different definition of sustainability. The beautiful reality is that sustainability can be whatever you want it to be because it applies to every aspect of life. You will find most people define sustainability by its three fundamental pillars, sometimes called the triple bottom line or the three p's. Environmental Sustainability also known as the Planet Pillar, is the responsibility to conserve natural resources and protect global ecosystems to support health and well-being, now and in the future What you can do: Volunteer for local community clean ups Use non-toxic chemicals in home and office Conserve water Reduce the generation of waste by not creating it, and reuse, recycle and compost materials Opt for zero-emissions transportation such as walking or biking and take advantage of public transportation when possible Purchase sustainable seafood Opt for plant-based foods over animal products Purchase Energy Star equipment for heating, cooling, water heaters, appliances, and light fixtures Employ environmentally friendly building techniques Use your voice! Call your city and state representatives, and advocate for laws that protect nature’s ecosystems Social Sustainability also known as the People Pillar, according to Dr. Beate Littig & Dr. Erich Grießler, from the Institute for Advanced Studies' Department of Sociology, in Vienna Austria, "is a quality of societies. It signifies the nature-society relationships, mediated by work, as well as relationships within the society. Social sustainability is given, if work within a society and the related institutional arrangements satisfy an extended set of human needs and are shaped in a way that nature and its reproductive capabilities are preserved over a long period of time and the normative claims of social justice, human dignity, and participation are fulfilled." What practical aspects involve social sustainability? Wellness Diversity Volunteering Human rights Fair labor practices Environmental justice Wellness Equity and equality Safety Community engagement Economic Sustainability also known as the Prosperity Pillar, can be defined as practices that support long-term economic growth without negatively impacting social, environmental, and cultural aspects of the community. How to be involved in economic sustainability: Buy locally sourced goods Donate money to non-profits that support sustainable practices Shop second-hand or thrift as much as possible Take part in the economy (especially local), without compromising your quality of life or that of others Purchase from companies that pay workers fair wages (e.g. Fair Trade) Reuse, recycle, and compost materials to help create a circular economy United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations has complied a comprehensive list of 17 Sustainable Development Goals that set expectations for countries to move toward creating a more sustainable world. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©