Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Subscribe Yale Sustainability Explainers News Blog Vision & Approach Priorities & Progress Academics & Research Take Action Resources About Take Action From composting to reducing paper use, learn how you can contribute to a more sustainable Yale. Get Involved Yale releases findings from 2021 Sustainability Survey The Yale Office of Sustainability is excited to announce the release of the 2021 Yale Sustainability Survey Report, which features an assessment of sustainability knowledge, behaviors, and areas of interest within the Yale community. You can read about the survey, key findings, and next steps. Read More Composting Explained Ecosystem scientist Dr. Whendee Silver and compost expert Forest Abbott-Lum walk us through the benefits and challenges associated with the breakdown of food waste. Read the Explainer Yale unveils action plan to advance campus climate change goals Yale has announced details of its three-pronged approach to achieving zero carbon emissions on campus by 2050. Read More Priorities Working toward a Yale where sustainability is seamlessly integrated into the scholarship and operations of the university, contributing to its social, environmental, and financial excellence and positioning Yale as a local and global leader. Climate Action Take urgent action to mitigate climate change and proactively adapt to its effects Stewardship Plan and preserve resilient and sustainable infrastructure and landscapes Materials Ensure sustainable consumption and disposal patterns See the Yale Sustainability Plan Yale Experts Explain Composting Explained Ecosystem scientist Dr. Whendee Silver and Forest Abbott-Lum walk us through the benefits and challenges associated with the breakdown of food waste. Ocean Acidification Explained Ocean health experts Dr. Ellen Thomas and Dr. Catherine V. Davis walk us through a consequence of climate change impacting marine ecosystems and human livelihoods. See all explainers News & Events Yale Launches New Bird-Friendly Building Initiative Yale Sustainability, Yale Peabody Museum & Yale Law School Yale’s Quest to Sequester More Carbon Yale Planetary Solutions Project Spring Salvage and Food Drive Redirect Waste from Yale Move-Out Yale Sustainability More Sustainability News From the Blog The Health Benefits of Alternative Commuting While driving yourself to work may seem like a no-brainer, it is not the only option for daily commuting. Try these alternative commuting strategies for a healthier you and healthier Earth Read More See All Blog Posts Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale Office of Sustainability 203.436.3571 sustainability@yale.edu Yale Copyright © 2021 Yale University · All rights reserved · Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy · Nondiscrimination/Title IX  Federal and State Notice Requirements · Jobs Facebook Twitter Instagram