Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home News Columbia Wins Sustainable Commuter Transportation “Best Overall Program” Award Awards Columbia Wins Sustainable Commuter Transportation “Best Overall Program” Award At its annual International Conference – held this year in New York City – the Association for Commuter Transportation (ACT) presented Columbia University with an award for “Best Overall Program” in transportation demand management (TDM). The award recognized Columbia’s achievements in reducing drive-alone commutes, providing alternative sustainable transport for commuters, and the purchase of six battery-electric buses, among other initiatives. August 07, 2019 Columbia University representatives from the Transportation and Environmental Stewardship offices accept the award from ACT at the International Conference on August 7, 2019. “Columbia is a leader in sustainability, and this award reflects the effort we’ve put forth in the years since our first campus Sustainability Plan was implemented in 2017,” said Jessica Prata, Assistant Vice President for Environmental Stewardship. “We’ve surpassed our original goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions 35 percent by 2020, and our innovative transportation programs are an integral part of that success.” ACT’s International Conference is the premier gathering of TDM professionals in North America, attracting over 550 attendees from across the United States, Canada, Europe, Africa, and Australia. Attendees include individuals from major employers, departments of transportation, municipalities, transportation management associations, metropolitan planning organizations, consultants, transit agencies, vendors, and other shared use mobility providers. "With so much innovation and investment taking place in TDM, we are honored to be shining the spotlight on this year's recipients of ACT's National TDM Awards,” said David Straus, ACT Executive Director. “This year's awardees represent a diverse mix of individuals and organizations that are helping improve the quality of life of commuters across the country." Highlights of Columbia’s sustainable transportation initiatives include: Single Occupancy Vehicle (SOV) rates are now under 2% for students and 14% for employees. The comprehensive intercampus shuttle network connects University locations in Manhattan, New Jersey, and Rockland County, as well as key transit hubs. Six new battery-electric buses now operate on intercampus shuttle routes, among the first electric buses to operate in New York City. Carpool parking discounts were extended to hundreds of construction workers building Columbia’s new campus at 125th Street in Manhattan. A University-operated park and ride is in service for commuters northwest of NYC. Priority is given to SOV commuters. Significant investments were made in maintaining and expanding University operations and housing options within the urban, culturally rich, walkable environment of NYC. Rapid transit comes every four minutes to Manhattan campuses. A Smart Commuter email signature badge incentive program drives culture change and spreads commute resources. Free car share memberships are given to those who sell their personal car or switch to a sustainable commute. Columbia also provided a tour of one of its electric buses at the ACT conference, shuttling interested attendees from the New York Marriott Marquis to the new Manhattanville Campus at 125th Street and Broadway. Tags Transportation Awards News April 22, 2022 Relaunch of Sustainable Events at Columbia in Honor of Earth Month April 22, 2022 Plan 2030 Year One Annual Report (2021 - 2022) is Released on Earth Day April 22, 2022 Transitioning to Zero Emission Vehicle Columbia Parking Areas April 20, 2022 Columbia Continues Commitment to 100% Net Zero Emission Electricity in 2021 April 11, 2022 Spring 2022 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close