Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Climate Leadership Climate Leadership Columbia commits “…to becoming carbon neutral by 2050, with the hope, and expectation, of arriving at that point even earlier." - President Lee C. Bollinger, January 30, 2020 “The effort to achieve net zero emissions must be sustained over time, employing all the tools available to us and engaging all who are at Columbia today and those who will follow us in the years ahead…[this plan] reaffirms that commitment…” - President Lee C. Bollinger, January 21, 2021 On a path that achieves net zero emissions by 2050. Climate leadership is, in part, a function of the breadth of emissions-related activities and sources Columbia takes responsibility for, the pace at which emissions abatement occurs, and the nature and quality of Columbia's strategies for mitigation. In support of President Bollinger’s statement and recognizing the urgency of the climate crisis, Columbia University is joining the global movement of leading organizations in aligning its Sustainability Plan 2030 “with the most ambitious aim of the Paris Agreement, to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and reach net zero by 2050 for the best chance of avoiding the worst impacts of climate change.” Source. With this plan, Columbia University establishes principles for ambitious science-based GHG emission reduction targets (SBT) consistent with this objective. To identify these principles, Columbia has relied on information available from the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), and has consulted with key faculty members at the Earth Institute. The resulting principles that will guide Columbia’s science-based targets are as follows. With respect to the breadth of Columbia's responsibility: As visualized in Figure 1, our targets will cover: All climate forcers (GHGs) required as per the Kyoto Protocol (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3). This is consistent with the definition of net zero emissions and TCR accounting guidance. All Columbia organizations over which Columbia has full operational control All primary campuses (Baker Field Athletics Complex, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Manhattanville, Morningside, and Nevis Labs) All activities within our value chain that result in material GHG emissions (from our own operations as well as key upstream and downstream activities including Columbia’s investments) Refer to Figure 1 below for a graphic depicting what falls within our commitment boundaries. With respect to the pace at which Columbia shall proceed: Columbia will reach a state of net zero emissions no later than 2050 “with the hope, and expectation, of arriving at that point even earlier.” Columbia will eliminate sources of emissions at a pace consistent with global mitigation pathways that limit global warming to 1.5°C with limited or no overshoot. (Refer to the Interim Targets and Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions section of the plan for a discussion of how these principles translate to actionable targets.) With respect to the quality of Columbia's mitigation initiatives: The University will follow a mitigation hierarchy that prioritizes eliminating sources of emissions within its value chain (avoid, reduce, and replace) over “compensation” (offsets) and “neutralization” (sequestration/emissions removal) measures. (Refer to Campus Energy and Sustainable Transportation sections for more detail.) The administration will steer Columbia’s investments to areas that support a sustainable future and have a positive impact on the environment. To this end, Columbia does not hold and will not make new investments in oil and gas companies. Prior to reaching net zero emissions, the University will consider undertaking efforts to compensate (offset) unabated emissions in order to meet our interim science-based targets. However, to finally reach net zero emissions, Columbia will apply emission neutralization (not compensation) measures to achieve an amount of emissions removal equal to Columbia’s “residual” GHG emissions, i.e. emissions that could not otherwise be abated. These compensation and neutralization initiatives will ensure additionality and permanence, address leakage, avoid double-counting, and have a strategic connection to Columbia’s mission. Columbia’s mitigation strategies will adhere to environmental and social safeguards with explicit consideration, for example, of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The University will leverage its approach to science-based targets to strengthen partnerships with global universities committed to climate leadership. Back to Plan 2030 About Plan 2030 Executive Summary Introduction Progress to Date Climate Leadership Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Commitment Areas Campus Energy Sustainable Transportation Responsible Design and Construction Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Responsible Materials Management Water Conservation and Capture Appendix Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets Environmental Justice Senior Sustainability Advisory Committee (SSAC) and Working Group Members Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close