Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Subscribe Yale Sustainability Explainers News Blog Vision & Approach Priorities & Progress Academics & Research Take Action Resources About Home > Take Action Take Action A sustainable campus depends on the people who live and work here. While we strive to improve our infrastructure and build systems that make sustainability second nature, individual behaviors have a huge impact on our overall success. The decisions you make daily can help us reach our sustainability goals. Explore the topics below to find ways you can take action and make a difference. Try something new and spread the word. Make your life simpler and more efficient. Join the effort. We all have a part to play in building a more sustainable world. Participate Learn more about these programs to get involved with sustainability at Yale. Sustainability Week Green Certifications Community Carbon Fund Sign Up for Our Monthly Newsletter Sustainability Leaders Sustainability Tour Sustainability Data Hub Commuting Sustainably Find information about getting to campus and moving around car-free. Managing Materials Your guide to disposal on campus. Green Purchasing Guidance on what to look for and how to buy with sustainability in mind. Reducing Paper Use Tools to improve efficiency and reduce waste. Saving Energy Tips for utilizing spaces, efficiency measures, powering electronics, and staying comfortable. Sustainable Food & Dining Make food choices that matter: in the kitchen, at events, or in the dining hall. Conserving Water Find information about water and stormwater on campus, and how you can help us conserve. Promoting Wellness Improve sustainability and your health! Tips for using active transportation and green spaces, and choosing healthy foods. Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale Office of Sustainability 203.436.3571 sustainability@yale.edu Yale Copyright © 2021 Yale University · All rights reserved · Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy · Nondiscrimination/Title IX  Federal and State Notice Requirements · Jobs Facebook Twitter Instagram