Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Transportation Brown is offering a variety of transportation options that connect the community while taking steps to minimize emissions. Breadcrumb Home Sustainability in Operations Sub Navigation In This Section Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Transportation Brown is offering a variety of transportation options that connect the community while taking steps to minimize emissions. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the transportation sector accounts for approximately 29% of U.S. greenhouse gases. To actively decrease its transportation-related emissions, to improve accessibility and as a way to promote healthy lifestyles and community building, Brown is proud to offer its community members free access to the Brown University Shuttle (B.U.S.), and the Rhode Island Public Transit Authority (RIPTA). Brown also works to continuously improve biking, electric vehicle, and walking infrastructure and resources in collaboration with Providence and Rhode Island. The Brown University Shuttle The Brown University Shuttle connects off-campus community members to Brown, the Jewelry District to College Hill, students and faculty to the hospitals, and more. Take the Shuttle 2021 Shuttle Rides 46,907 daytime shuttle rides 680 SEAS shuttle rides 36,636 evening shuttle rides 26,208 OnCall shuttle rides RIPTA U-Pass Program Brown University has made great strides toward increasing the availability of public transportation with the Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA) U-Pass program. The program subsidizes all Brown University ID holders so they may ride any RIPTA bus or trolley free of charge anywhere in the state of Rhode Island. A 2020 study found Brown to be the #1 patron of the RIPTA bus service. 110,431 RIPTA rides in 2021 through the UPass program Numbers for RIPTA ridership decreased due to COVID-19, but are expected to rise again in the future. Driving and EV Stations Brown is committed to improving its transportation infrastructure and focuses efforts on encouraging community members to replace gas miles with electric miles sourced from renewable electricity. One way the University does this is by continually increasing the number of Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations on campus. Learn more at Brown Transportation FY21 Year in Review 4,355 hours of EV charging time on campus 271 Unique EV drivers 2,721 gallons saved Spin Scooters In the Fall of 2021, Spin Scooters deployed 100 scooters around campus, and Brown worked with Spin Scooters through geofencing technology to create speed limits, slow zones, and no parking areas for safety. Spin also attended New Student Orientation to ensure students were educated about the program and received safety instruction. Students also received free helmets and free scooter time. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Transportation Open details for Transportation Bookmark this Page