Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About About the School History School timeline Leadership School FAQ Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion A Living Lab Research & Impact Departments Institutes and Initiatives Sustainability Accelerator Students & Academics Academics Student Experience Student FAQ News & Events News Events What excites me is... Giving Foundational Launch Partners Matching Program Giving Opportunities New Faculty Student Support Institutes & Initiatives Research Grants Launching September 2022 Stanford is creating its first new school in more than 70 years dedicated to creating a future where humans and nature thrive in concert and in perpetuity. Main content start Earth, Climate & Society Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability, the university’s first new school in 70 years, will accelerate solutions to global climate crisis Investments of $1.1 billion from John and Ann Doerr, along with gifts from other philanthropists, catalyze interdisciplinary efforts to tackle urgent climate and sustainability challenges facing people and ecosystems worldwide. Read the story Inaugural dean: Arun Majumdar A professor of mechanical engineering and former co-director of the Precourt Institute for Energy, Majumdar has expertise in energy solutions and policies through his research on sustainable grid technologies and his experience in both industry and government. Read the announcement Majumdar recently sent a message to the community looking ahead to next steps and launching a several month listening tour with the community. Read his message Organized for impact The Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability is organized to drive impact with a novel three-part structure that includes academic departments, institutes and initiatives, and a Sustainability Accelerator. Creating knowledge Scholarship within the school's departments creates new knowledge about the natural world and its linkages with human society, and the threats we all face. Bridging disciplines The school's institutes focus interdisciplinary expertise around critical challenges in energy, the environment, and sustainable societies, and foster emerging areas of scholarship. Driving impact The Sustainability Accelerator will draw expertise from across the university and outside partners to co-create and scale solutions for urgent climate and sustainability challenges. Academics Our school offers degrees and research opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, as well as professional certificates. Find your degree Our scholarship and impact Faculty and students in the departments, institutes, and centers seeding the school are already expanding our understanding and generating impact worldwide. When the school launches in September, these existing research programs will be augmented by faculty hires in extended areas of scholarship, and their impact will be broadened with a new Institute for Sustainable Societies and Sustainability Accelerator. Civil & Environmental Engineering Q&A: Tracking COVID infections through wastewater The COVID pandemic marks the first time scientists have been able to track a respiratory disease through wastewater analysis. Read more School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Earthquakes from oil field wastewater Underground disposal of wastewater from fossil fuel production in the nation’s largest oil field is causing long-dormant faults to slip in a way that could damage wells, according to new analyses of satellite and seismicity data. Read more Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Saving the Mekong River Delta from drowning Southeast Asia’s most productive agricultural region and home to 17 million people could be mostly underwater within a lifetime. Read more School news Message from Arun Majumdar: Looking forward Arun Majumdar named inaugural dean of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability, university’s first new school in 70 years, will accelerate solutions to global climate crisis Newsroom Meet our community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Be part of the change The DEI office aspires to build a community that reflects the demographics of our society and is attuned to the environmental justice and social issues that are fundamental to fruitful learning and lead to better scientific solutions for our planet. Get involved Sharing our stories Celebrating diversity This interview series illuminates how our many identities intersect with our work in sustainability. Black, Indigenous, Latinx, LGBTQIA+, Asian American Pacific Islander, women, and other groups among faculty, staff, students, and alumni share their experiences. Read their stories Environmental Justice New minor offered Evan Baldonado, a third-year student in the School of Engineering, is the first student to adopt a minor in environmental justice, offered through the Earth Systems program. The minor will also be part of the new school. Read about his experience What excites me is... Here, faculty share what excites them about the new school, including forming new research collaborations, amplifying the global impact of their work and helping students contribute to a sustainable future. View more stories Human behavior Gabrielle Wong-Parodi "This is an opportunity to draw across disciplines to think about strategies from engineering to behavioral sciences to environmental scientists and really come together to tackle the really big sustainability issues that we face today as a society." Watch the video Living Laboratory Campus commitment to sustainability Stanford campus acts as a living laboratory for sustainability solutions, with ambitious goals for reducing emissions and waste and for scaling our learnings through other campuses, businesses, or governments. Our commitment Contact us Stay in touch Merging to form the new school: School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Precourt Institute for Energy Hopkins Marine Station Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering (joint with the School of Engineering) School history Academics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Giving Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top