Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Responsible Materials Management Responsible Materials Management Overview Columbia commits to align with New York City’s zero waste goal through enhanced waste diversion programming, strategic procurement partnerships, and a robust sustainable events policy. NYC has committed to sending zero waste to landfill by 2030. Columbia’s first sustainability plan called for the quantification and subsequent reduction of waste generated on campus. Recognizing that reductions in waste need to be targeted efforts with unique tactics and buy-in from the community, Columbia has highlighted University events as a starting point for phase two of waste reduction efforts, with an eye toward creating a more sustainable purchasing policy and practice on campus, both centrally and at the individual level. Expand all Collapse all Goals and Strategies Expand current waste diversion programs Expand organics collection, pending the return of the New York City Department of Sanitation (DSNY)'s pick-up program (temporarily suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic). Continue to track Scope 3 emissions from waste and report to The Climate Registry (TCR) annually. Create a steering committee of industry experts to determine the most effective way to measure waste minimization progress and set a goal in those terms by 2022. Zero waste University events by 2030 The Sustainable Events working group has launched a comprehensive approach to achieve zero waste University events, and four sub-working groups have begun to meet as of Fall 2020 to achieve these goals: Procurement Event Guidelines and Certifications Communications Infrastructure These four sub-groups are actively working to drive the below strategies and actions. Develop a comprehensive sustainable events strategy and accompanying communications plan that center on waste avoidance and reduction, and improved waste management practices. Collect and analyze data on sustainable events through an annual survey of event managers on campus to better inform future strategies. Review the effectiveness of existing standardization of campus waste receptacles, prioritizing those with event and departmental spaces. Develop educational resources and infrastructure for zero waste events, including the Sustainable Event Guidelines. Develop accessible communication channels for information sharing. Nurture and grow Columbia’s network of event planners through targeted listservs, annual surveys, and other tactics. Continue training staff and students through “Know Where To Throw” training. Align retail tenant operations with University sustainability standards Identify a set of sustainability metrics and data points to which retail tenants must adhere. Add a sustainability clause into all requests for proposal (RFPs) and contracts with retail tenants. This will hold them to a set of sustainability guidelines and reporting requirements, aligned with the University’s sustainability goals, and keep them accountable through tracking of key metrics and data points. Require retail tenants, by contract, to align with University waste-hauling practices. Improve data tracking and governance of retail tenants through a centralized database. Set procurement specifications to quantify and reduce waste and emissions from procured goods and services on campus Create a sustainable procurement policy for events and beyond that minimizes waste coming onto campus, including: Food ordering guidelines Elimination of plastic cutlery Reduced packaging Identify minimum environmental standards for University vendors. Work toward creation of a catering RFP that reflects Columbia’s environmental standards and values. Expand all Collapse all Progress to Date Overhauled waste receptacles with new signage, created in partnership with members of the Sustainable Leaders Network, complete with improved, widened lids on bins for easier accessibility. Removed personal desk-side bins and continue to encourage a central location for all bins. Despite a relatively stagnant diversion rate, the University now sends 95% of waste generated from academic buildings to a waste-to-energy plant, reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill to only 5%. Single-use plastics continue to be phased out in various schools and departments, replaced by water-filling stations where possible. The Sustainable Events working group conducted a survey with event planners on campus to establish a baseline of existing event sustainability practices and identify areas for improvement. This working group continues to regularly meet and work toward strategies, recently creating sub-teams to achieve progress in a variety of areas Created and published Sustainable Event Guidelines for the University. Learn More View Columbia’s Sustainable Event Guidelines View information on water packaging options CUIMC-Specific Commitments CUIMC is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. LDEO-Specific Commitments LDEO is aligned with all stated goals and strategies in this section. Topics: Materials Management Comprehensive Recycling Program Paper & Cardboard Recycling Glass, Metal & Plastic Recycling Electronics Recycling Lighting (Flourescent Lamps & Other Mercury-Containing Devices) Recycling Battery Recycling Lab Material Recycling Printer Cartridge Recycling Medical Waste Recycling Trash & Bulk Waste Compost Powerhouse Chiller Plant Expansion Residential Fuel Conversion Demand Side Management Electrification and Hybridization of Columbia Fleet Energy-Saving Lighting & Light Sensors Geothermal Energy Labs21 Green Roofs Building Exteriors and Historic Preservation LEED Building Awards Locally Grown Foods Food Donation Trayless Dining The Doe Fund Surplus Kitchen Goods Donation Recycled and Reusable Service Items Green Monday Dual Flush Toilet Handles High Efficiency Washing Machines Domestic Pump Station Mercury Thermometer Exchange Program Fume Hood Upgrades Give & Go Green Collection of Commute Data Intercampus Shuttles Black Car Service Bike Share NYC Public Transit Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Carpool and Car Share Local Housing Energy Conservation Education ReUse Program Alternatives to Flying Vehicle Procurement Resources for the Purchasing of Sustainable University Vehicles Sort Department Audience Categories Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Services, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter edit edit edit edit Recent News: Materials Management November 17, 2021 Clean + Go Green - December 2 to 3, 2021 After more than a year hiatus due to Covid-19, “Clean + Go Green” is back at the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses on Thursday, December 2 and Friday, December 3. Some drop off and donation locations are different than past years due to the presence of other tents on campus, so please review the locations carefully. Tags EventsWaste November 09, 2021 Columbia is Once Again Recognized as a Top Performer in AASHE’s Sustainable Campus Index Columbia Transportation took second place and Columbia Dining took sixth in The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE)'s 2021 Sustainable Campus Index Tags AwardsTransportationWaste October 29, 2021 Columbia University Joins Global “Race to Zero” Pledging Immediate Action Against Climate Change Columbia’s commitment to reach net zero by 2050 or sooner and its new sustainability plan qualify the university for participation in this global challenge. Tags Plan 2030EnergyTransportationWasteCampus as a Living LabConstruction & Design More News Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close