Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home News Spring 2022 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Newsletter Spring 2022 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter To receive this newsletter in your inbox, sign up on the Transportation website. April 11, 2022 Dear Columbia Bicycle Interest Group, Thank you for your continued interest in biking. We hope you are equally excited for the improved biking weather as we head into the warmer months. We’re pleased to share with you updates related to biking in and around Columbia and New York City. We hope this information is helpful and finds you well. Enjoy the rest of the semester and hopefully we’ll see you at the upcoming Bike to Campus Days. Events Ride Your Bike to Campus Days – April 12, 22, & 29, 2022 Mark your calendar for Public Safety’s Ride Your Bike to Campus Days on the Morningside, Manhattanville and Medical Center campuses! At the events, you can meet other cyclists, receive free bicycle registrations, bike tune-ups, and more. You can also stop by the Sustainable Columbia table to learn more about biking at Columbia. Ride your bike to campus and get involved on these dates and locations: Morningside Campus: 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. April 12, Low Plaza Manhattanville: 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. April 22, Lenfest Square, 615 West 129th Street Medical Center Campus: 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. April 29, Haven Plaza, between Fort Washington and 169th Street Velocity: Columbia’s Ride to End Cancer Participate in Columbia’s Your Velocity walk, run, or ride event to help end cancer. Well-Being Programs Check out upcoming well-being programs and workshops on the Office of Work/Life webpage. Bike Education Bike NY are offering in-person classes again. New to cycling in NYC, or just want to brush up on your skills? Review the resources for learning how to cycle safely on the Columbia Transportation website and participate in one of Bike NY’s virtual or in-person classes. Columbia News Over 170 new bike parking spaces added to Manhattanville campus as well as showers and changing facilities. Manhattanville campus opened over 100 new bike parking spaces around the new Columbia Business School building entrances plus 70 indoor bike parking spaces that offer a secure and sheltered option for members of the Columbia Business School. There are also new shower and changing facilities for active commuters such as cyclists and runners. Access to the new bike room and showers is only for Columbia Business School affiliates. Non-affiliates can consider other bike parking enclosures listed on this website. Follow these steps to gain access to the Columbia Business School bicycle room: Set up an appointment to get your bike registered by contacting Public Safety at 212-854-8513 or [email protected] Take your bike to Public Safety for registration and engraving Let the Public Safety officer know you are a CBS affiliate and would like access to the CBS bike room. You are now set up and begin using the bike room. Micro-mobility Updates You can now map your Citi Bike ride on Google Maps. Now you can enter in your destination and tap “Citi Bike” to see the most efficient route without having to wonder which Citi Bike stations to depart and end at. It even shows you the number of open docks at your destination point. Just open Google Maps on your smartphone, set your destination, tap bike, and tap Citi Bike. Other Information and reminders: View bike parking areas on or near campus, including commuter bike parking enclosures, on Columbia Transportation’s bike webpage. View NYCDOT’s official bike map, updated annually. More commute and travel resources: For additional information about your travel options, including important information for being a cyclist at Columbia, visit Columbia’s Transportation website. On behalf of the Sustainable Columbia Working Group for Transportation, thank you for being enthusiastic about bicycling and active travel. Subscribe To subscribe to this newsletter, sign up here. Be well, Daniel Allalemdjian Director, Transportation Demand Management Office of Environmental Stewardship Daniela Elazari Director of Well-Being Office of Work/Life These initiatives contribute to the goals outlined in Columbia’s Sustainability Plan. Tags Transportation Bicycle Interest Group Campus as a Living Lab News April 22, 2022 Relaunch of Sustainable Events at Columbia in Honor of Earth Month April 22, 2022 Plan 2030 Year One Annual Report (2021 - 2022) is Released on Earth Day April 22, 2022 Transitioning to Zero Emission Vehicle Columbia Parking Areas April 20, 2022 Columbia Continues Commitment to 100% Net Zero Emission Electricity in 2021 April 11, 2022 Spring 2022 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close