Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Events and Campus Offerings Find out what's happening on the Hill. Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities Events and Campus Offerings Find out what's happening on the Hill. Sustainability Tour Offered two days a week and over the summer, Brown's Office of Sustainability offers a tour that introduces community members and prospective students to Brown’s sustainability initiatives and how to get involved. The tour covers topics including composting, recycling, sustainable building practices, local food and alternative living practices. The office is currently working on a virtual tour that you will be able to enjoy from your office or home. Sign up for a tour Virtual Sustainability Tour If you are interested in the sustainability tour but are unable to attend in person, check out Brown’s new interactive virtual tour option. Move through a 3D rendering of Brown’s campus as the tour highlights a number of sustainability features, initiatives, and programs taking place in your favorite spaces and behind the scenes! View Virtual Sustainability Tour Sustainability Help Desk The Office of Sustainability hosts a help desk twice per semester in the lobby of Page-Robinson Hall or on the Main Green. Meet office staff and student interns, play sustainability trivia and learn how to make a difference and how to get involved with environmental groups at Brown. Dates are published in Today@Brown and on the sustainability social media accounts. Visit us on social media Sustainability Showdown Each semester the Office of Sustainability hosts an information panel about sustainability topics such as energy, waste, sustainable food choices and more. Faculty and staff are invited to speak about their expertise and their work at Brown and to answer questions from Brown community members. See the presentation Earth Week Every year during the week surrounding Earth Day, April 22, the Office of Sustainability hosts events to celebrate the earth and share how we can do our part to protect it and its life. The office also shares event information from student groups and other departments. Be sure to check in on our social media before Earth Week 2022! View virtual event videos Brown University Tree Map Learn about the signature trees at Brown and explore their environmental values. For each tree, you can find a short description, the annual carbon sequestration of that individual tree and a fun fact. Carbon sequestration was calculated using the National Tree Benefit Calculator. This map was developed by the Office of Sustainability interns, who used geographic information system software to develop a self-guided interactive tour of different trees of interest on campus. View Brown University Tree Map Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Events and Campus Offerings Open details for Events and Campus Offerings Bookmark this Page