Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters: Search Buttons Search This Site Search Cornell Main MenuSearch Sustainability Map News Events Subscribe Home Our Leadership Our History Governance Sustainability Framework Sustainability Plan Climate Action Plan Campus Initiatives Annual Reporting Living Laboratory Buildings & Energy Food Land & Water Purchasing and Waste Human Wellbeing Transportation Take Action Student Resources Employee Resources Event Certification Green Office & Lab Program Green Teams & Ambassadors Annual Events Awards About Campus Sustainability Office Jobs & Opportunities Partnerships Sustainable Cornell Council Governance Our History Governance Assembly Resolutions Sustainable Cornell Council Charge & Priorities Membership Sustainability Framework Sustainability Plan Climate Action Plan Home Our Leadership Governance Sustainable Cornell Council In the News: 09.09.2019: New council to guide campus sustainability, climate efforts Connect: The SCC Leadership Team and Steering Committees meet regularly. To get in touch with a committee or working group, use the Support page. The Council is supported by the Campus Sustainability Office. sustainability@cornell.edu 607.255.8120 Sustainable Cornell Council Advancing sustainability aligns with Cornell’s academic and land grant missions, research expertise, and operational excellence. The Sustainable Cornell Council (SCC) was formed in 2019 to coordinate our vision and work in creating a more sustainable campus and community and supporting partnerships for global impact. The Sustainable Cornell Council (SCC) is Cornell University’s sustainability governance committee for the Ithaca campus, responsible for directing and coordinating Cornell’s role as an international leader in addressing climate change and sustainability, advancing meaningful progress in our operations, and advancing active engagement from the campus community. The Council includes three steering committees, a leadership team, and working groups. Steering Committees will identify working priorities and lead short-term groups each year with broad membership from the campus to advance sustainability projects, initiatives, and campus research. Diagram of the Sustainable Cornell Council Structure (2019).Enlarged view. How We Work The Council oversees implementation of the Sustainability Plan and Climate Action Plan, integration of climate and sustainability as part of university priorities, and reporting on progress. Membership liaisons from the University Assembly and student Environmental Collaborative ensure transparency and connection to the broader campus community. Sustainable Cornell Council Steering Committees Three steering committees oversee the planning, execution, and reporting on goals from the campus sustainability plan and Climate Action Plan. Committees prioritize projects to advance goals and facilitate knowledge and solutions-sharing. Carbon Neutral Campus Committee Charge: Advance campus carbon neutrality through implementation of the Climate Action Plan Responsibilities & working priorities Campus Operations Committee Charge: Advance initiatives for a model sustainable campus that support climate resilience and human and planetary health Responsibilities & working priorities Education & Engagement Committee Charge: Cultivate literacy and a culture of sustainability responsibility that catalyzes participation across the campus community. Responsibilities & working priorities The SCC was founded in Fall 2019, combining two previous climate and sustainability committees into a single coordinating body. Sustainability oversight committees have been in place since 2010. What's Happening Around Campus All News May 3 Materials Management Students Join student clubs for Sustainability Field Day, May 7th Apr 22 Climate Leadership Students Medium article shows how to live more sustainably as a Cornell student Apr 20 Materials Management Staff & Faculty Students Book a compost crew for your next campus event Apr 18 Building & Energy Climate Leadership Campus energy reduction campaigns drive results in 2021 and 2022 Mar 24 Materials Management Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Tip Mar 23 Building & Energy Students Join the Freezer Challenge 2022 Feb 9 Students Creative memes wanted for Beyond Waste competition Dec 3 Climate Leadership Revealing climate change inequities, redress, and environmental justice Stay Connected Cornell Sustainability @sustaincornell RT @CornellNews: Expand #ClimateAction: Mitigation strategies must target #carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic #climate tipping points. #ClimateEmergency @PNASNews @CornellCALS https://t.co/eQmRxDqG1k Sustainable Cornell Facebook Sustainable Cornell Instagram Sustainable Campus Contact Us 129 Humphreys Service Building Ithaca, NY 14853 PHONE 607-255-6375 EMAIL sustainability@cornell.edu Quick Links About News Events Participate Find Your Opportunity Webmaster Login Newsletter Subscription Sign Up © 2022 Campus Sustainability Office, Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.