Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters: Search Buttons Search This Site Search Cornell Main MenuSearch Sustainability Map News Events Subscribe Home Our Leadership Our History Governance Sustainability Framework Sustainability Plan Climate Action Plan Campus Initiatives Annual Reporting Living Laboratory Buildings & Energy Food Land & Water Purchasing and Waste Human Wellbeing Transportation Take Action Student Resources Employee Resources Event Certification Green Office & Lab Program Green Teams & Ambassadors Annual Events Awards About Campus Sustainability Office Jobs & Opportunities Partnerships Sustainability Rankings and Awards Annual Reporting Annual Reporting STARS Annual Sustainability Report How We Rank Living Laboratory Buildings & Energy Food Land & Water Purchasing and Waste Human Wellbeing Transportation Home Campus Initiatives Annual Sustainability Reporting Sustainability Rankings and Awards Sustainability Rankings and Awards Cornell University is a top-ranking Ivy league institution in campus sustainability and has been recognized for leadership in several areas related to the creation of a sustainable campus and community. Measuring progress using STARS reporting: Top Ivy League institution in STARS* - the only campus with a Platinum rating One of 11 campuses in the world and 9 in the USA to have achieved a Platinum Rating #1 in New York State for Building, Campus Engagement, Research, and Planning (2021) #2 in the nation for Campus Engagement and Sustainability Research (2021) The only Ivy League institution to make the top 20 Sierra Cool Schools list #10 in the nation among Doctorate Granting Institutions (2021) *Yale, University of Pennsylvania, Columbia, and Princeton report using STARS. Stanford and MIT also report using STARS are are often considered "Ivy+ institutions" - Stanford and Cornell both hold Platinum Ratings. Measuring progress to carbon neutrality: Cornell was one of the first 50 campuses in the nation and the first Ivy League to commit to carbon neutrality. We accelerated our goal from 2050 to 2035, and have met our interim reduction targets. Top Ivy League Institution for overall carbon reduction 4th largest carbon reduction in the country for campuses over 14,000,000 sq. feet Top 25 for carbon reduction by full-time equivalent student Top 25 most aggressive carbon reduction goals among Doctorate granting institutions Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System™ (STARS) Current Rating: STARS Platinum, Highest Available The Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System™ (STARS®) is a transparent, self-reporting framework for colleges and universities to measure their sustainability performance. In 2020, Cornell was recognized with a Platinum rating. Previously, Cornell held the longest-running Gold Rating for 8 years. Cornell STARS Reporting STARS allows users at member institutions to compare scores and data in every reporting area. Create a free login with your Cornell NETID to use the Comparison Tool and explore how Cornell compares to other campuses on issues you care about. Second Nature Carbon Commitment Current Rating: Top Ivy for Overall Carbon Reduced, Marks of Distinction Marks of Distinction is an initiative within the campuses of the Climate Leadership Network that recognizes Universities which set high-performance goals, demonstrate and report measurable progress towards those goals, and support network progress by sharing solutions and ideas. The Second Nature GHG reporting tool houses Cornell's annual GHG inventory. Institutions and the public can access this data to compare progress and achievements. Second Nature Website Princeton Review Green Honor Roll Current Rating: 7th Greenest College & Green Honor Roll The Princeton Review annually publishes a comprehensive assessment of an institution’s campus quality of life, environmentally responsible policies, and its preparations towards a carbon-neutral future. The Princeton Review Green Honor Roll Sierra Club Cool Schools Current Rating: 4th Coolest School The Cool Schools Ranking uses data from STARS along with its own custom-built formula to evaluate campus sustainability. It weighs progress in areas of energy, air, climate, and transportation more heavily than other sectors to align with Sierra Club’s priorities. Sierra's Cool Schools Ranking Other Recognition Leadership in Green Power Education Award (EPA) Cornell was selected by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Center for Resource Solutions in 2018 for its efforts to advance access, education, and public interest and engagement in renewable energy resources, especially in low-income communities. Read the news article Cornell is a EPA Green Power Partnership Member. The EPA Green Power Partnership is a voluntary program encouraging organizations to use green power as a way to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use. What's Happening Around Campus All News May 3 Materials Management Students Join student clubs for Sustainability Field Day, May 7th Apr 22 Climate Leadership Students Medium article shows how to live more sustainably as a Cornell student Apr 20 Materials Management Staff & Faculty Students Book a compost crew for your next campus event Apr 18 Building & Energy Climate Leadership Campus energy reduction campaigns drive results in 2021 and 2022 Mar 24 Materials Management Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Tip Mar 23 Building & Energy Students Join the Freezer Challenge 2022 Feb 9 Students Creative memes wanted for Beyond Waste competition Dec 3 Climate Leadership Revealing climate change inequities, redress, and environmental justice Stay Connected Cornell Sustainability @sustaincornell RT @CornellNews: Expand #ClimateAction: Mitigation strategies must target #carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic #climate tipping points. #ClimateEmergency @PNASNews @CornellCALS https://t.co/eQmRxDqG1k Sustainable Cornell Facebook Sustainable Cornell Instagram Sustainable Campus Contact Us 129 Humphreys Service Building Ithaca, NY 14853 PHONE 607-255-6375 EMAIL sustainability@cornell.edu Quick Links About News Events Participate Find Your Opportunity Webmaster Login Newsletter Subscription Sign Up © 2022 Campus Sustainability Office, Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.