Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community 30x30 Challenge Penn's Month-Long Outdoors Program The 30x30 Challenge is an effort to encourage the Penn community to get outside, learn about local ecology, and appreciate the beauty of nature. Join Penn's 30x30 Challenge and challenge yourself to spend at least 30 minutes outdoors in nature each day for all 30 days of April. The Challenge runs from April 1 - 30. Did you know that Americans spend approximately 90% of their time indoors, according to the EPA? Over the last decade, researchers have been documenting what many of us know intuitively - that nature is good for our health and well-being. Regularly immersing yourself in a natural setting like a park, forest, or field- can reduce stress while boosting immunity, energy levels, and creativity. Registration Registration for the 2022 30x30 Challenge is now open. To sign up, click here Download Our Poster Download the 2022 30x30 poster by clicking on the picture below. FAQs Where can I find nearby nature? Nature isn’t a destination—it’s literally in your backyard. Green space is as close as your neighborhood park or garden. Community gardens, trails, parks, and open, natural areas are often a short diversion from your daily route. Birds, bees and other critters are always nearby. You just have to take time to watch and listen. Use our Nature Rx map to find locations both on and around Penn's campus where you can benefit from spending time in nature! What counts as “time in nature”? Good question! It’s simple: time in nature is about getting outside and taking time to notice and connect with the non-human life around you. Time in nature is not always the same as being outside — most busy city thoroughfares aren’t very green or calming. But the good news for urban dwellers is that even small green spaces are beneficial if you relax and pay attention to nature when you’re there. Visit our Nature Rx webpage to learn more! Can you give me some ideas for spending 30 minutes in nature during the workday? Eat your lunch outside Explore a neighborhood park Go for a run outside I missed a day – can I still participate in the Challenge? Of course! The Challenge isn’t about being perfect. We want to encourage the Penn community to get outside and enjoy nature more often. Little by little, you can cultivate the nature habit. How can I earn 2021-2022 Be In the Know Bonus Action points for participating? In order to earn 750 points through Be In the Know: Sign up for the 30x30 Outdoor Challenge on the Virgin Pulse platform, which will be available March 22, 2022. Select "Yes" on the daily check-in on Virgin Pulse for 25 out of the 30 days in April Meet all required deadlines for registration and tracking. Social Media Competition We would love to see your fun ideas for getting outside, so please share what you're doing with Penn Sustainability on social media! Tag us on Instagram (@pennsustainability), Twitter (@greenpenn), or Facebook (@PennSustainability) and use the hashtags #Penn30x30Challenge and #NatureRxPenn in your post. At the end of the month, we'll select our winners, who will receive sustainable swag! Weekly Challenges and Other Events Week 1 (April 1-7) Take your reading outside - find your favorite shady (or sunny!) spot and enjoy the outdoors as you enjoy the newspaper or some literature. Bike or walk somewhere you've never been before. Explore your own neighborhood or one you've been wanting to check out. Eat lunch outside and take in your natural surroundings. Walk a dog. Volunteer to take a friend's or neighbor's dog on a walk for them if you don't have your own. Week 2 (April 8-14) Take a photo that captures the detail of a plant or other natural object. Find a cool bug or plant, and try to identify its species using online field guides. Take a pencil and paper outside with you. Sketch what you see, write a poem, or just reflect on the day. Go for a walk at night. Look and listen for animals and critters that you normally wouldn't see or hear during the day. Week 3 (April 15-21) Make a barbeque dinner and eat outside. Skip the gym. Go on a run or bike ride instead. Get your hands dirty in a garden. Grab a sketchbook and draw flowers growing near you. Celebrate Earth Week (April 18 - 22) with events across campus! Week 4 (April 22-30) Celebrate Earth Day on April 22! Go on a hike this weekend. There are lots of short, beautiful day hikes in the Philadelphia region. If you have a scheduled call, take your call outside. Watch the sunrise or sunset for multiple days this week - notice the difference in colors and hues. Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC