Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments Research Research Research Themes Research Projects Related Field Experiments Publications People People Alumni Welcome Message Facility About SUSTAIN Facility Location Filming Media Opportunities Scientific, Engineering and Commercial Opportunities Student Opportunities Contact Us Research People Facility Media Opportunities Contact Us Search Research Research Research Themes Research Projects Related Field Experiments Publications People People Alumni Welcome Message Facility About SUSTAIN Facility Location Filming Media Opportunities Scientific, Engineering and Commercial Opportunities Student Opportunities Contact Us The Alfred C. Glassell Jr. SUSTAIN Laboratory A Multifaceted Wind-Wave-Storm Simulator The Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. SUSTAIN Laboratory (SUrge-STructure-Atmosphere INteraction) is a unique resource for studying the complex air-sea interactions of wind, waves and shorelines, including: • Understanding hurricane rapid intensification, storm surges and wave dynamics • Modeling extreme weather conditions • Designing sensors and oceanographic instruments • Creating numerical models • Developing protective wave barriers This powerful wind-wave tank at the University of Miami’s Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science can create category 5 hurricane force winds of up to 155 mph 69 (mps) /enclosed in clear acrylic so that water and wind actions can be monitored in a 3-D environment. It is an ideal platform for testing scientific instruments, new materials, and commercial products designed for coastal water, atmospheric or land environments. Due to its acrylic construction and elevated placement, SUSTAIN is well suited for imaging and visualization applications, including commercial film and television productions. investigating air-sea interactions, wave dynamics and storm surges in hurricane conditions Research Themes Instrument Design Bio-Physical Interactions Multiphase Fluid Studies Remote Sensing Media Stories UM Rosenstiel scientists awarded $6.74 million federal grant to study coastal land-air-sea-interactions A team of scientists at the University of Miami (UM) Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science will lead an in-depth collaborative study of coastal land-air-sea interactions, which may affect wind fields, storm surges and wave action... Seas Are Rising. It Rains More. How Much Of That Is Making Hurricanes Worse? WLRN Read more How UM's Hurricane Simulator is Helping Forecasters With Storm Predictions NBC Miami Read more Creating Hurricanes with the flip of a switch SciTech Now Read more FEATURED VIDEO See what happens. Our Sponsors University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ALFRED C. GLASSELL JR. SUSTAIN LABORATORY SUSTAIN addresses a significant gap in the existing research infrastructure available to support the development of disaster resistant and resilient coastal communities. Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices