Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Plan 2030 Measuring Progress to Net Zero: Greenhouse Gas Inventory Accounting and Reporting Measuring Progress to Net Zero: Greenhouse Gas Inventory Accounting and Reporting Columbia commits to streamline greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting to report on both City and internal goals. Columbia’s Greenhouse Gas Accounting Methodology Plan to streamline GHG Accounting to harmonize Local Law 97 (LL97) and evolving Carbon Challenge reporting The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which supplies the world's most widely used GHG accounting standards, mandates that a company account for all the Scope 1 and 2 emissions within its organizational and operational boundaries. The University will continue to apply the rigorous GHG accounting principles to align with international standards, as outlined by The Climate Registry (TCR) in its General Reporting Protocol. As of 2021, New York City plans to harmonize its Carbon Challenge and LL97 accounting. As that evolves, Columbia will: Seek to adapt its TCR accounting process and tools to easily extract NYC reporting information/metrics. Migrate to one set of accounting books as LL97 emissions limits phase in over time. Aligned with international accounting best practice In 2017 the University aligned with internationally accepted emissions accounting and reporting standards and methodologies. To do this, Columbia tracks and annually reports its GHG emissions through TCR and in accordance with the International Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This provides Columbia with a more rigorous approach to manage its comprehensive GHG program and public inventory. The University has historically measured its progress against a base year (2006 for MS+, 2012 for CUIMC, and 2016 for LDEO), and has submitted third-party verified inventories to TCR since 2017. Reporting boundaries The reporting boundaries include locations where Columbia University has full authority to introduce and implement operating policies, and ultimately aspires to include all primary campuses: Baker Athletics Manhattanville Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) Morningside Nevis Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) Note: to date, this campus has utilized EPA Energy Star to track and report its Scope 1 and 2 emissions. By 2020 reporting year LDEO campus data will be integrated into the TCR reporting process already in place for the Morningside+ and CUIMC portfolios. Columbia’s Reported GHG Emission Sources Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Emissions that fall into the “Scope 1” category include direct, on-site emissions from owned or controlled sources. For Columbia, this includes the stationary combustion of fuel, fugitive emissions, and emissions from owned or operated fleet vehicles. Emissions within “Scope 2” include indirect emissions from the purchase of electricity. Columbia has committed to achieve net zero emissions for all Scope 1 and 2 emissions sources, as is best-practice. And Columbia has committed to do so at a pace and through quality mitigation strategies consistent with the current science. Scope 3 emissions Emissions that fall within the “Scope 3” category are all indirect emissions (not otherwise included in Scope 2) that fall within Columbia’s value chain, including both upstream and downstream sources. Columbia has committed to complete an inventory of all its key Scope 3 sources by the end of 2022 and to establish science-based targets consistent with principles applied to Scope 1 and Scope 2. Back to Plan 2030 About Plan 2030 Executive Summary Introduction Progress to Date Climate Leadership Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Commitment Areas Campus Energy Sustainable Transportation Responsible Design and Construction Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Responsible Materials Management Water Conservation and Capture Appendix Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets Environmental Justice Senior Sustainability Advisory Committee (SSAC) and Working Group Members Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close