Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Waste Diversion Brown is working to make it simple for community members to direct waste to the right place. Breadcrumb Home Sustainability in Operations Sub Navigation In This Section Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Strategic Waste Plan Trash Buddy Program Where Does Your Waste Go? Water Transportation Waste Diversion Brown is working to make it simple for community members to direct waste to the right place. Waste in Rhode Island is a significant concern due to limited landfill space and proximity to waterways and the ocean. Brown has taken aggressive steps to minimize waste coming onto campus,and to divert waste leaving campus from the landfill through recycling and composting. In 2016, the Office of Sustainability set an aggressive, aspirational goal of diverting 50% of the University's waste through the implementation of compost in dining facilities, increased donation rates and improved education about waste-sorting practices. Recycling, donating and composting means that less material ends up in our landfill. Waste that breaks down in the landfill increases the risk of soil, water, and air pollution and creates the greenhouse gas methane that is significantly worse than carbon dioxide. A significant amount of the waste we currently send to the landfill is considered contamination — waste that could have been diverted into other waste streams but when it’s mixed with landfill waste, it often cannot be sorted out at the landfill. Strategic Waste Plan Reaching 50% diversion from the landfill is an ambitious goal that requires the participation of all Brown community members. Trash Buddy Program The goals of the Trash Buddy are to incentivize proper waste disposal, increase awareness of and participation in sustainable practices and move Brown closer to its aspirational waste diversion goal of 50% diversion from the landfill. Our Commitment to Compost Composting is the process of transforming organic materials such as food waste into a nutrient-rich, natural fertilizer. Brown implemented compost collection in all dining hall food prep locations and in the Sharpe Refectory front dining areas in 2017. Composting is an essential part of Brown’s commitment to sustainability. It has many benefits, including enriched soils, reduced contributions to landfills, and decreased the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. 338.9 tons organic material sent to local composting facility in FY21 FY21 Year in Review Shred-It Recycling Program 45.9 tons of shredded paper recycled 785 trees saved 138 cubic yards of landfill space saved 321,545 gallons of water saved Tracking Compost Volumes Brown contracts with two compost haulers to pick up food waste for composting. This chart shows the total tons hauled away for composting. Composting declined significantly in FY2021 due to the pandemic’s impact on dining operations and a reduction in total food purchases. Diverting Waste from the Landfill 41.9 % Compost (339 tons) 38.17 % Recycling (308.8 tons) 7.42 % Leaf waste (60 tons) 5.68 % Shred-it (45.9 tons) 2.69 % Electronic and special waste (21.8 tons) 1.73 % Clothing donations (14 tons) 1.21 % Metal (9.8 tons) 1.08 % Wood (8.8 tons) Learn more about composting at Brown Where Does Your Waste Go? Ways to Compost Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Waste Diversion Open details for Waste Diversion Bookmark this Page