Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Subscribe Yale Sustainability Explainers News Blog Vision & Approach Priorities & Progress Academics & Research Take Action Resources About Home > Priorities & Progress Priorities & Progress The goals laid out in the Yale Sustainability Plan 2025 are broad and expansive. They call for improving infrastructure across campus, changing behaviors, and connecting research and teaching with real-world challenges. As we strive to improve operations we identify learning opportunities that engage departments and individuals across campus. These efforts promote the social, environmental and financial well-being of the institution, making Yale a safer, healthier, more enjoyable place to live, study and work. Yale’s sustainability goals are organized into nine ambition areas. Explore these ambitions to learn about Yale’s efforts on campus, progress toward our goals, and ways you can help. Download the Yale Sustainability Plan 2025. Every year we evaluate progress toward our sustainability goals. Some initiatives progress quickly, while others require ongoing effort or a different approach. Learn about our efforts by exploring the nine ambitions below or download our latest Progress Report. Leadership Demonstrate local and global leadership in sustainability teaching, research, service and operations. Empowerment Foster a diverse and inclusive sustainability movement. Health & Well-being Enhance health, well-being and ecosystem vitality. Climate Action Take urgent action to mitigate climate change and proactively adapt to its impacts. Stewardship Plan and preserve resilient and sustainable infrastructure and landscapes. Built Environment Design, build and maintain resilient and sustainable buildings. Mobility Promote and support human and ecosystem health through sustainable transportation. Materials Ensure sustainable consumption and disposal patterns. Technology Explore innovative technological platforms to address sustainability challenges. Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale Office of Sustainability 203.436.3571 sustainability@yale.edu Yale Copyright © 2021 Yale University · All rights reserved · Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy · Nondiscrimination/Title IX  Federal and State Notice Requirements · Jobs Facebook Twitter Instagram