Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home Get Involved Student Groups Student Groups Expand all Collapse all Women & Sustainability Women & Sustainability (W&S) is a group that was established by the Earth Institute’s M.S. in Sustainability Management Program. The group strives to advance female leaders working in sustainability through academic, professional, and personal development. W&S also looks to develop a community of women that will act as a support network, providing encouragement and fostering growth. Events to date have included topics on corporate sustainability, nonprofit and NGO sector initiatives in sustainability, impact investing, and general professional development workshops. Visit the Women & Sustainability website SUMASA (Sustainability Management Student Association) SUMASA is the Student Association for the Master of Science in Sustainability Management program at Columbia University. Co-sponsored by the Earth Institute and the School of Continuing Education, this professional graduate program is designed to equip sustainability leaders with the practical knowledge and cutting-edge skills required to effectively manage the complex opportunities and risks of sustainable development. Email: [email protected] Visit the SUMASA website SIPA Environmental Coalition The School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) Environmental Coalition (ECO) is a graduate student and alumni organization dedicated to elevating the most pressing global and local environmental policy challenges of our time. ECO raises awareness by offering skills-based trainings, hosting educational and social activities, and providing opportunities for advocacy through collaboration. Our goal is to spur action and engage the Columbia community in dialogues that highlight the linkages among our fields. Visit the SIPA Environmental Coalition website SIPA Energy Association (SEA) The SIPA Energy Association (SEA) is one of the largest student organizations at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs. We are dedicated to building relationships among SIPA students and energy sector practitioners in the field. Working with partner organizations across the private, public and nonprofit sectors, SEA aims to educate SIPA students about professional opportunities in energy and to foster information-sharing that complements SIPA's Energy and Environment concentration. SEA's diverse membership brings a variety of professional backgrounds to the organization. Our student members are enrolled in a number of Columbia University programs and SIPA concentrations, including energy, finance, environmental policy, development, sustainability and security. SEA's members look forward to careers in fields that will directly impact the world's energy future. Email: [email protected] Visit the SIPA Energy Association website Green Business Club The Green Business Club (GBC) is a professional student organization at Columbia Business School. It serves member students by providing educational and career development resources focused on a wide range of sustainable business industries. Its membership has extensive experience working in renewable energy, electric vehicles, energy efficiency, and sustainable consumer goods. It strives to create a network for like-minded individuals in its community to share knowledge and facilitate career building. Visit the Green Business Club website Columbia University Coalition for Sustainable Development (CUCSD) CUCSD aims to embrace the collective strength of students and professionals across campus to increase sustainability awareness and sustainable development impact, within Columbia University, locally and in the world at large. By attending high-level forums, our members represent CUCSD in multilateral negotiations, share their work with field experts in sustainable development, mobilize their peers in impacting international policy, and apply their experience in their academic and professional work. In addition, they disseminate information on the work and innovations of Columbia University. CUCSD was officially recognized by the Columbia University Interschool Governing Board in March 2012. Visit the CUCSD website Columbia Law School Environmental Law Society Columbia Law School’s Environmental Law Society (ELS) is an organization for students who are concerned about environmental issues and/or are interested in environmental careers. The group actively advocates for the curriculum to include environmental subjects, and its members promote environmental efforts at the Law School. ELS hosts events with top environmental practitioners from the government, public interest groups, and private law firms. These gatherings include panel discussions and informal lunches. In addition, ELS also hosts large-scale events. These include an Earth Day celebration and outdoor events such as hiking trips, park clean-ups, and tree-planting. ELS welcomes all interested and new students, and the organization offers an ample opportunity to become involved at any level. Email: [email protected] Visit the Columbia Law School Environmental Law Society website Columbia Journal of Environmental Law We are a student-edited journal for environmental law scholarship. We publish articles by scholars, practitioners, and students, as well as short-form online content. Visit the Columbia Journal of Environmental Law website Columbia EcoReps The EcoReps are Columbia’s student-run environmental group. The EcoReps work to make this campus greener and more sustainable in a number of ways. Email: [email protected] Visit the Columbia EcoReps website Columbia EcoLions EcoLions is a club at Columbia University devoted to the sustainability of Columbia University Athletics. Email: [email protected] Columbia Aquanauts The Columbia Aquanauts is an interdisciplinary group of students at Columbia University that share a common goal of creating sustainable solutions for global water resource management. We aim to achieve this goal through mentored research groups and community activism supplemented by campus events, guest speakers, and various partnerships with external organizations as well as other student groups. Visit the Columbia Aquanauts website Build It Green The first club within the School of Professional Studies (SPS) to focus solely on sustainability in the built environment. Our goal is to foster discussions on building sustainable design and to become a resource for innovative, and impactful advances in the field. Email: [email protected] Follow Us on Social Media Facebook: @SustainableColumbia Twitter: @SustainablCU Instagram: @sustainablecolumbia 212-854-7046 [email protected] Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close