Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Volunteer Opportunities Find ways to make a difference in the Brown community and beyond. Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities Clean Break Volunteer Opportunities Find ways to make a difference in the Brown community and beyond. Volunteering On Campus Clean Break To avoid thousands of pounds of clothing, books, and other material entering the Rhode Island landfill during spring move-out, The Office of Sustainability and volunteers place donation bins in each residence halls. Student donations are sent to organizations. Volunteers are the backbone to our success. As a volunteer, you help divert up to 30,000 lbs of material from the landfill. learn more Green Move-In Green Move-In volunteers educate first-year students about sustainability and promote proper waste sorting as students move into their residence halls. Sign up Compost Volunteering Can't stand seeing food waste improperly sorted? Help your peers learn to compost in the Sharpe Refectory and get a free meal. Sign up If you’re interested in volunteering or interning with the Office of Sustainability, email William Poole. Volunteering in the Community BrownEngage Volunteering in the Rhode Island community is a great way to support sustainability initiatives and learn about the City of Providence and Rhode Island. To learn more about volunteering in the community, check out the Swearer Center's Brown Engage platform. Student Groups Passionate about sustainability and want to learn about more ways to get involved? Learn about the environmental student groups active on campus. Check them out Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Volunteer Opportunities Open details for Volunteer Opportunities Bookmark this Page