Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Sustainable Columbia Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Commitment Plan 2030 Programs Get Involved Environmental Stewardship Team Contact Us News Partners Sustainability Plans 2017-2020 Sustainability Plan Plan 2030 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Sustainable Investments Fossil Fuel Free Construction Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle Parking Annual Progress Reports 2017 Progress Report 2018 Progress Report 2019-2020 Mid-Year Update Plan 2030 Year One Tracking and Reporting The Climate Registry Awards Executive Summary Introduction Climate Leadership Progress to Since 2017 Trajectory to Net Zero Emissions Measuring Progress to Net Zero Campus Energy Breakdown of Emissions Sources Campus Energy: Overview GHG Mitigation Hierarchy Progress to Date Sample Mitigation Roadmap Science-Based Targets Sustainable Transportation Business Travel Campus Fleet Commuter Emissions and Sustainable Commute Modes Freight Emissions Responsible Design and Construction Responsible Materials Management Sustainable Event Guidelines Culture Change and Campus as a Living Lab Water Conservation and Capture Acronyms and Definitions Strategic Offsets SSAC & Working Group Members Year One Progress Report Sustainable Leaders Network Crown Commuter Program ReUse Program Know Where to Throw Events Academic Programs Student Groups Sustainable Leaders Network Sustainable Columbia You are here: Home News Bike Commuters Celebrated at 2nd Annual Bike Recognition Breakfast Transportation Bike Commuters Celebrated at 2nd Annual Bike Recognition Breakfast Sustainable commuters were celebrated at the 2nd Annual Bike Champions Recognition Breakfast on October 25, 2018 on College Walk at the Morningside campus. October 26, 2018 Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Sustainable commuters were celebrated at the 2nd Annual Bike Champions Recognition Breakfast on October 25, 2018 on College Walk at the Morningside campus. Slide 2: Peter Deneen talks about his bike commute after receiving a Sustainable Commuter award at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast Slide 3: Steve Sholdra (left) receives a Sustainable Commuter award from Dan Allalemdjian at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast Slide 4: Yilmaz Akkoyun (left) receives a Sustainable Commuter award from Dan Allalemdjian at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast Slide 5: Emily Boytinck poses with her bike and her Sustainable Commuter award at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast on College Walk Sustainable commuters were celebrated at the 2nd Annual Bike Champions Recognition Breakfast on October 25, 2018 on College Walk at the Morningside campus. Peter Deneen talks about his bike commute after receiving a Sustainable Commuter award at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast Steve Sholdra (left) receives a Sustainable Commuter award from Dan Allalemdjian at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast Yilmaz Akkoyun (left) receives a Sustainable Commuter award from Dan Allalemdjian at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast Emily Boytinck poses with her bike and her Sustainable Commuter award at the 2018 Bike Recognition Breakfast on College Walk Previous Next Emily Boytinck, SIPA, commutes from North Harlem: "I love my bike commute! I bike down from 147th Street along St. Nicholas and next to two parks. It is a really great start to my day." Yilmaz Akkoyun, SIPA, commutes from Riverside Drive and 109th Street: "I bike all year around. All the way up Riverside Drive and then across campus to get to SIPA. Miles are short, but I also cycle all over NYC. It is the most sustainable way of getting around, flexible, active, and you see more of the city. Biking is also more financially viable." Steve Sholdra, Center for Career Education, commutes from Little Italy in the Bronx: "I love the biking commute to work! It's a seven mile trip each way for me, but since I have to get to campus early each day, I get to watch the sunrise right behind Yankee Stadium as I ride past it... every single day I'm tempted to stop for pictures! I have two routes to take, depending on the time of day I'm riding (due to High Bridge only open during daylight). First, I can ride home up St. Nick Avenue all the way to the High Bridge, ride across the bridge, and then ride along University Avenue all the way until it meets Fordham Road, and then I'm practically home! It's a great commute because it only involves one right turn (to turn onto High Bridge) for my entire ride, even though I live over by Fordham in Little Italy. My second commute is up St. Nick Ave, then across the Macombs Dam Bridge, right past Yankee Stadium, then making my way up to Grand Concourse then over to Park Avenue via Tremont, which is a gorgeous ride because I get to go on a bike lane almost the whole way, and Park Avenue is right along the Metro North tracks so it's amazing. Thank you so much for providing us with the biking parking garages! They're absolutely incredible!" Peter Deneen, GSAS, commutes from Astoria: "My commute is about 15 miles round trip daily. The Queensboro Bridge and Central Park are the highlights of my year-round commute. I ride alone but there is usually a flock of other morning commuters. I choose my bike chiefly because it is zero emissions. Secondly because self determination is important to me - I don't like to be at the mercy of the MTA's inconsistency and biking is also faster. Third for the exercise. Fourth because I just feel better after a commute above ground. And fifth, its free!" Lacarnly Creech, Columbia School of Social Work, commutes from Harlem: "My ride is quick and (luckily) 40 percent in a bike lane. I ride down St. Nicholas Avenue so I get an uninterrupted tree lined start. Since my ride is so quick, I ride every single day regardless of weather. Bike commuting is much faster than public transportation would be for me. In certain conditions I'm even faster than the cars on the road!" Sarah Stone, SIPA "I love being outside and the fresh air. Biking is the environmental and socially-conscious choice of transportation." Ru-Lian Hsu, Teachers College, commutes from campus to the Lower East Side: "I've been commuting by bike in NYC for more than a year. I usually bike to grocery shopping (at Trader Joe's on 72nd St or 93rd Street) with my big hiking backpack for an entire week's supplies. Since this July, I have commuted to my office about three times a week. The office is located in the Lower East Side, 10 miles away from my apartment on 121st Street. I bike through the Hudson River Greenway and pass by Battery Park to the East River Bikeway. There are several reasons why I choose a bike commute. In the beginning, I just wanted to save on transportation costs. I even biked during the winter when it was really freezing cold, and it was a challenge for me to cycle under those conditions. You have to put lots of clothes on but when cycling you start sweating, and get wet and cold when you reach your destination. You might feel cold all the time and still have to bike to your place in the end, which is a battle for me and my bike to overcome under the unbearable weather. However, after getting used to biking around NYC, I've started enjoying the energy and relaxation it brings. Though it is a long way to my office, I get more energy after morning cycling to the office and feel relaxed after a long day work by cycling along Hudson River and watching the sunset. I hope I can hold these beautiful experiences in mind and keep cycling in the coming winter and snowy season." Ye Deng, GSAS, commutes from West Harlem: "I ride from 148th and Broadway to campus at 116th and Broadway. Sometimes I take Riverside Drive instead. I do it alone and I choose to commute by bike because it forces me to exercise, is green, is flexible, is cheap, and is just as fast, if not faster, than taking the subway." Chandani Patel, Center for Teaching and Learning, commutes from Fort Lee, NJ: "I ride my bike over the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee and park it at CUIMC. I take the subway down to Morningside. I ride alone. I love the view from the bridge, taking my bike cuts down on my transit time, and I get a little workout in before the day begins. It's also cheaper!" Tags Transportation News April 22, 2022 Relaunch of Sustainable Events at Columbia in Honor of Earth Month April 22, 2022 Plan 2030 Year One Annual Report (2021 - 2022) is Released on Earth Day April 22, 2022 Transitioning to Zero Emission Vehicle Columbia Parking Areas April 20, 2022 Columbia Continues Commitment to 100% Net Zero Emission Electricity in 2021 April 11, 2022 Spring 2022 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Want to share your commute story? Email us at [email protected] to be featured! Sustainable Columbia423 West 120th Street, Suite 7, Mail Code: 3607 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7046 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close