Skip to Main Content Brown University Sustainability Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History Search Sustainability Data Visuals Find all of the Office of Sustainability's data visuals in one place Sub Navigation In This Section Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals Data Visuals Find all of the Office of Sustainability's data visuals in one place Path to Net Zero This chart illustrates how Brown is planning to achieve its goal of carbon neutrality by 2040. Brown also has an intermediate goal of a 75% reduction below FY2018 levels by FY2025. The red dots indicate actual values and the black dots are projected values. Fiscal Year Emissions Totals This bar chart shows Brown’s total scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. Use the dropdown filter to toggle between annual or monthly views, color the bars by different measures of interest, and see the impact that Brown’s power purchase agreements have had on campus emissions. Texas Wind Renewable Power Production This chart shows how much renewable electricity the ‘Mesquite Star’ wind farm in Texas is generating on behalf of Brown University. Brown receives 1 REC, or renewable energy credit, for every megawatt hour produced by the wind farm. This project is the University's first power purchase agreement, and more are planned for the near future. Tons Picked up for Composting Brown contracts with two compost waste haulers. Most of the pickup locations are "back-of-house" meaning Brown's chefs deposit food scraps behind the scenes. This chart shows the total tons hauled away from campus and diverted from the landfill waste stream. Composting declined significantly in FY21 due to the pandemic’s impact on dining operations and the associated reduction in total food purchases. Degree Days and Monthly Utility Usage This chart shows monthly natural gas and electricity consumption, plotted against a measure of outdoor temperature known as "degree days." Brown’s natural gas consumption increases as temperatures drop and the number of heating degree days rise. Electricity usage is only partly driven by an increase in cooling degree days. These values do not include renewable energy credits. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Organization & Governance Sustainability Strategic Plan Office of Sustainability Our Commitments Reduce Emissions to Net-Zero Reduce Nutrient Pollution Preserve Biodiversity Reduce Water Impacts Safeguard Human Health Education Research & Scholarship Sustainability in the Curriculum Sustainability in the Community Operations Energy Food & Nutrition Waste Diversion Water Transportation Get Involved Saving Energy Reducing Consumption & Sorting Waste Transportation Events & Campus Offerings Student Groups Volunteer Opportunities News & Reports Annual Reports Brown Sustainability News Data Visuals History This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Data Visuals Open details for Data Visuals Bookmark this Page