~The West Texas Historical Association ~ Latest WTHA News Welcome to the West Texas Historical Association Web page. Please feel free to browse our site and get to know us. Our executive and editorial offices are located at Texas Tech University. The Annual Meeting of the West Texas Historical Association will take place on March 18-19, 2022 in Lubbock, Texas. Hotel reservations can be made at the conference hotel for the 2022 meeting. A room block has been reserved at the MCM Eleganté 801 Ave Q, Lubbock, TX 79401. The room rate is $95.00 and includes a free breakfast. The cutoff date for reserving a room at the meeting rate is March 6. Phone # 806-763-1200. Remember to say that you are with the WTHA group. For more information on the hotel please go to-- https://www.mcmelegantelubbock.com/ The preliminary session program with presenter bios highlights the times and locations for the various sessions, events, the keynote speaker, and the President's address (you may need to hit refresh on your browser to see updates to the document). conference registration is now available as well. Other News A calendar of upcoming events [2022 meetings, workshops, and links to related organizations and societies] is available for your convenience. If you have events you would like added to our calendar, please email us.] Upcoming events in 2022: February 18-19, 2022 - Texas Cowboy Poetry Gathering in Alpine, Texas. Link. February 23-26, 2020 - Southwest Popular and American Culture Association’s Annual Conference in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Link February 24-26, 2022 - 126th Annual Meeting of the Texas State Historical Association in Austin, Texas. Link March 18-19, 2022 - The Annual Meeting of the West Texas Historical Association in Lubbock, Texas. Donations sought: Donations to the Student Scholarship Award and the R. C. Crane Heritage Service Award can be made online now by clicking on the donate buttons to the right. Who Are We? The West Texas Historical Association has always been an organization committed to people who are interested in the history of West Texas. Because of our open-membership policy our association has been filled by a healthy cross-section of lay and professional historians. These include teachers, students, business people, farmers, ranchers, and engineers who have contributed to the growth of the organization. In addition, our membership has had solid institutional support from colleges, universities, libraries, museums, county historical groups, and corporations throughout the region and across the nation. Pictured right: Scene from the WTHA Saturday business meeting, 2000. Our Association is active. Each year we hold a conference in a West Texas city. We visit, present papers, and exchange ideas and information. We publish a selection of papers in our annual scholarly journal, The West Texas Historical Review. Also, twice a year, we put out a newsletter highlighting people, places, and events throughout West Texas. In addition, the Association works cooperatively with other historical groups such as the East Texas Historical Association and the Texas Oral History Association. Pictured left: Past president Darlene Bellinghausen presiding over a session at the Midland meeting. In addition, the WTHA promotes research and writing by giving cash awards. These include prizes for the best West Texas Historical Review article, the best nonfiction and best fiction books on West Texas, and the best student article. The Association also provides research funds on a competitive basis. Please take time to look us over. Contact us if you would like to attend our annual meeting, present a paper, preside over one of the sessions, and submit one of your articles or books for an award. If you are from West Texas, or if in your heart you are a West Texan, we encourage you to become a member. Our dues are inexpensive. Our journal is well-known, and highly regarded. Our membership is international. And, the hospitality is just right. Tai Kreidler, Executive Director email: tai.kreidler@ttu.edu A Brief History The West Texas Historical Association was organized in 1924 in Abilene at Simmons College (as Hardin-Simmons University was then called). In 1996, the WTHA moved its editorial offices to Lubbock and Texas Tech University, and in 1998 it moved its executive offices there as well. Since 1924 the association has held an annual meeting and published its scholarly journal, West Texas Historical Review (formerly the WTHA Year Book.) Officers and board members of the organization are all dedicated volunteers. Throughout its long and distinguished history, the WTHA has encompassed a wide range of both professional and non-professional historians-- from lawyers and physicians to ranchers, business people, and teachers. Although their interests vary, members share a common desire to preserve the rich history of the West Texas region for present and future generations. Pictured right: The book dealers tables and silent auction at the 2000 Midland meeting. 2805 15th Street Texas Tech University Lubbock, Texas 79409-1041 Ph. 806-742-9076 wthayb@ttu.edu WTHA's Facebook page ASSOCIATION INFORMATION Awards, Fellowships and Grants available Join WTHA (membership) Newsletters & The Review Officers, Board members, Fellows and Life Members WTHA in the News WTHA Facebook Page ANNUAL CONFERENCE INFORMATION Call for Papers 2022 Registration Form 2022 Session Program CONFERENCE SUMMARIES (includes photos and Session programs) Past Conferences Submitting Articles and Book Reviews to the West Texas Historical Review For those planning to submit articles or book reviews to the West Texas Historical Review, you can view submission guidelines here. You should also view our recommendations regarding style and format of articles. DONATE Please consider making a donation to these worthy causes by clicking on the "donate" button. Both awards are funded solely through donations and the Silent Auction. The R. C. Crane Excellence in Heritage Award The Student Scholarship Award PHOTOGRAPHS WTHA Board 1999 2000 2001 2002 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 2011-present (WTHA Flicker albums) Updated on 2-21-2022