Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Search Intranet Lab Ops Website HOME Faculty Research Research Areas Research Facilities Featured Videos Academics SSQBio PHD Joining a Lab Summer Internships 2021 Internship Projects Courses News & Events Department Outreach Designing Biological Systems of the Future Culture Contact Careers We use the tools of mathematics and computation Biology is too complicated for the unaided human brain! Location, Location, Location We're located in the heart of the Longwood Medical Area, one of the greatest concentrations of biomedical science in the world. Measure twice. Model once. Quantitative measurements are essential to build and test worthwhile models. Systems Biology Retreat in Beautiful Maine! Our 2019 department retreat was held at Sebasco Harbor in Maine. Welcome to the Department of Systems Biology Our department aims to identify the quantitative principles that govern complex interactions across all areas of biology and medicine. Our goal is to develop a conceptual and predictive understanding of the living world, to enable the design and control of biological systems and the advancement of human health and welfare. News Trying to manage curiosity-driven science risks limiting discoveries March 16, 2021 Ever since Arthur D. Little created the first consulting firm in 1886, management consultants have turned their attention to nearly everything from advertising to education to statecraft. They and their management principles are now insinuating themselves into the funding, management, and training of scientists. We think that threatens scientific discovery at its very core.... ... Read more about Trying to manage curiosity-driven science risks limiting discoveries MGH Study Says Routine Blood Test May Predict Covid-19 Hospital Death Risk September 25, 2020 Read more at the Boston Globe Re: Higgins Lab Read more about MGH Study Says Routine Blood Test May Predict Covid-19 Hospital Death Risk Predicting Mortality Risk September 23, 2020 Predicting Mortality Risk: Routine blood test identifies which patients with COVID-19 face higher risk of becoming critically ill Read the press release at HMS NEWS ... Read more about Predicting Mortality Risk SysBio on Twitter maxvstaller I am very excited to announce an opening for a postdoc in my group! We study the protein sequence features of transcriptional activation domains with high-throughput methods and machine learning. t.co/RLuYY8tk7e 1 month 2 weeks ago. HMS_SysBio Want to save the world using biology? Join the Synthetic Biology Initiative at HMS! Independent Fellow positions available now: see t.co/20zn32MVCl and t.co/c2dA8KzYpH. 1 month 2 weeks ago. HMSCareerNav Please, if you would, help us spread the word! @BBS_Harvard @Harvard_Imm @VirologyHarvard @DMSHarvard @PiN_Harvard @chemical_phd @DFCI_ChemBio @HMS_SysBio 7 months 1 week ago. HMS_SysBio Coming soon: your chance to apply to the Systems, Synthetic, and Quantitative Biology PhD program at Harvard t.co/WfVkh8upzE! GRE NOT required. Fee waivers available, see t.co/jO90qEss2A. If you want to integrate quantitative science into biology, apply by Dec 1! 7 months 1 week ago. HarvardGSAS PhD candidate James Valcourt tracks stem cells as they differentiate into skin cells, muscle cells, neurons, and many others. @HMS_SysBio @harvardmed #HarvardHorizons #stemcells t.co/N3zG7ZyQ7U t.co/0OUDMfvx4g 10 months 1 day ago. Learn more about our PhD Program! Admissions Student Life Diversity Women in STEM 90c329b87aff00aba215a09ee4b6c63c Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement