Skip to: Skip to content Skip to navigation Member Login | Register Header Menu Home Contact Calendar SystemX Alliance Search form Search About About SystemX History John G. Linvill Research Faculty Focus Areas FMA (Fellow-Mentor-Advisor) Seed Grants TRIP (Technology Research in Progress) IP/Patent Information Research Catalogs QNNcloud Student Thesis Defense Presentations External Presentations Membership Benefits and Participation Levels How to Become a Member Member Companies Recruitment Internship Bulletin News & Events Calendar News Events Conferences & Workshops Seminars Newsletter Contact Information Request Contact Us Directions Join Seminar Mailing List SystemX Alliance 2022 VIRTUAL Spring Workshop View the 2022 Spring Workshop recordings here: systemx.stanford.edu/springworkshop-2022 SystemX Alliance Stanford SystemX Alliance is a collaboration between Stanford University and member industrial firms to produce world-class research and Ph.D. graduates with a view to enabling truly ubiquitous sensing, computing and communication with embedded intelligence. Read more... Interested in becoming a member? Click here for more info! Visit the Spring Workshop 2022 page for more info! Explore the 9 SystemX Focus Areas of Research Fall Conference 2021 - Video Recordings and Slides Available ‹ › Valuable SystemX Member Resources Website Video Tour Your browser does not support the video tag. SystemX Focus Areas AMEND: Advanced materials enabling novel devices | DETAILS Bio Interfaces: Transformative technologies for healthcare | DETAILS Computation for Data Analytics: Optimizing application, architecture & technology | DETAILS Design Productivity: Improving critical area productivity | DETAILS Energy/Power Management Systems: Efficient energy power supply | DETAILS Heterogeneous Integration: Bridging everything into anything | DETAILS Internet of Everything: Universal connectivity of devices and systems | DETAILS Photonic and Quantum Technologies: More efficient devices and systems; optics | DETAILS Robotics and Autonomous Systems: Developing AI-enabled robots and autonomous systems that safely interact with humans | DETAILS Events May 31 Faculty Tutorial: Skin-Inspired Sensors, Circuits, Displays Zhenan Bao - Stanford University Zoom 11:00am to 12:00pm Skin-Inspired Sensors, Circuits, Displays Nov 15 SAVE THE DATE! - SystemX 2022 Fall Conference (Nov. 15-17, 2022) 8:00am to 5:00pm SystemX Alliance 2022 Fall Conference News Wed, 04/27/2022 Lab-to-fab solutions for the future of semiconductor technology An electrical engineer explains why the future of semiconductor technology requires investments in both R&D and manufacturing. Wed, 04/20/2022 Stanford engineers develop new kind of 3D printing Engineers at Stanford and Harvard have laid the groundwork for a new system for 3D printing that doesn’t require that an object be printed from the bottom up. Mon, 03/28/2022 Evan Reed, computational materials scientist who used AI to discover ideal engineering materials, has died Using the data-crunching power of supercomputers, Reed transformed his expertise in physics and artificial intelligence into a place at the forefront of a promising new field. More News Stories Home Contact Calendar SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305