Menu Home About What is Inclusive Higher Education? The Taishoff Family Taishoff Advisory Council Business Engagement Group Resources SOTA News Contact Us InclusiveU Home About What is Inclusive Higher Education? The Taishoff Family Taishoff Advisory Council Business Engagement Group Resources SOTA News Contact Us InclusiveU Delivering higher expectations for higher education Providing full and equal participation Redefining what it means to be a lifelong learner The Lawrence B. Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education is committed to individualized and inclusive higher educational opportunities for students with intellectual and developmental disabilities. More About Us The Taishoff Center delivers higher expectations for higher education through: InclusiveU InclusiveU offers an inclusive college experience for students with intellectual disabilities including individualized coursework, person-centered planning, professional internships, and social and extracurricular activities. Research Graduates and undergraduates at Syracuse University collaborate with faculty on topics including student growth/learning, transitioning to work and community living, public policy, economic models for inclusive education, and other related issues. Collaboration The Taishoff Center provides teaching strategies for faculty including information about universal design and adapting curriculum for students with IDD. We also co-host a yearly national conference, State of the Art Conference on Inclusive Postsecondary Education and Individuals with Intellectual Disability with George Mason University. Technical Assistance and Consultation As a model comprehensive transition and postsecondary program for students with IDD, Taishoff Center faculty, graduate students, parents, and participants provide technical assistance on how to replicate the InclusiveU initiative on campuses across the nation. What is Inclusive Higher Education? Mission Statement The Lawrence B. Taishoff Center works toward the full and equal participation of all college students with disabilities: in academics, the arts, extracurricular activities and campus life, career-related opportunities, and the vibrant social communities and cultures campuses can offer. We are especially committed to the inclusion of students with significant intellectual and developmental disabilities, who have traditionally been excluded from higher education. As students with disabilities like autism and Down syndrome enter higher education, they are redefining what it means to be a lifelong learner. News & Blog Posts 18 Apr 10 Teams to Compete in Intelligence ++ Event April 18, 2022 Via SU Libraries: Ten interdisciplinary teams will participate in the Intelligence++ Showcase Competition on Tuesday, April 26. The competition is the culmination of an inclusive design and entrepreneurship program... Read More 07 Oct New Center on Disability and Inclusion October 7, 2020 School of Education Announces New Center on Disability and Inclusion Read More Powered by Juicer More News ©2019 Lawrence B. Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education | Accessibility | Privacy