Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply WELCOME The Department of Teaching and Learning is committed to improving the education of all students, providing high quality teacher education to pre-service teachers, and offering professional learning opportunities for in-service teachers. We prepare the next generation of specialists and researchers who will serve as leaders in schools, faculty members in a variety of settings, and experts in community programs and beyond. We prepare the next generation of teachers, teacher educators, researchers, and practitioners to improve education for all students. Walter Secada, Ph.D. In Their Own Words Faculty's Perspective Mary A. Avalos is a Research Associate Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning. Her research interests include teacher development and professionalism and literacy/language development for multilingual learners using Systemic Functional Linguistics as a tool for language teaching. Dr. Avalos shares her thoughts on how the SEALED project provided funding for the higher educational pursuits of teachers. FEATURED PROJECTS Our department has several research projects that our faculty and staff have developed. Below are just a few examples that we would like to highlight. Artificial Intelligence-based Motivation Indicator Instead of measuring motivation by paper-based instruments, Dr. Kim has developed an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm to detect student’s motivation based on facial expressions and emotions. TPREP Program The Teacher Preparation Office manages all aspects of the undergraduate programs in teacher preparation, including the Elementary Education/Exceptional Student Education major, the Professional Training Option (secondary education) minor, and the general education minor. The Use of Advanced Augmented Reality Dr. Kim is collaborating with faculty in the College of Engineering on using augmented reality (AR) headsets from Magic Leap to attract and engage undergraduate students. SEALED Project Supporting Educators’ Academic Literacies and Enhanced Discourse (SEALED) TAL NEWS University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Teaching and Learning 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-8691 305-284-8691 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices