Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Elementary Education/Exceptional Student Education - B.S. Ed. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Undergraduate Programs Bachelors Elementary Education/Exceptional Student Education (full certification) - B.S. Ed. AAA Elementary Education/Exceptional Student Education - B.S. Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Inclusiveness is at the heart of our education mission. This means learning to teach in a way that includes and builds on the cultural, linguistic, and individual skills of all children, with an emphasis on their learning strengths. Our dual certification program, which also includes endorsements in Reading and English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL), ensures that teachers are prepared to meet the unique learning needs of all students. The Elementary/Exceptional Student Education major leads to eligibility for State of Florida certification in both Elementary (K-6) and Exceptional Student Education (K-12). The first of its kind in Florida, this program prepares teachers for the 21st century classroom, in which students of varying (dis)abilities, academic strengths, and linguistic backgrounds are educated together. Most of the courses in this traditional four-year program are taught by faculty who are active researchers in their field. This expertise gives students direct access to current research and best practices founded on knowledge constructed in part through the research efforts of TAL faculty. Ultimately, when faculty are at the forefront of innovation and best practices in education, students benefit. Of the 14 TAL courses required for the major, 10 of them include hands-on teaching experiences in classroom settings across Miami-Dade County Public Schools (MDCPS), including well-resourced and under-resourced schools, urban and suburban locations, and charter, private, and public schools. Across settings, these hand-selected schools provide the ideal setting for a dynamic collaboration that transforms educational theory into practice. Given that MDCPS is the fourth largest school district in the nation, students have the opportunity to work with a diverse student body consisting of children whose families speak over 100 different home languages. This district provides a rich environment for UM students to engage in practical teaching experiences informed by culturally responsive pedagogy under the guidance of mentor teachers in the district. In short, our rigorous Elementary Education/Exceptional Student Education program produces graduates who are well qualified to meet the educational needs of diverse learners, and who are highly sought after for job opportunities upon graduation. Required Coursework Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study The Department of Teaching and Learning offers a major in Elementary/Exceptional Student Education that leads to certification in Elementary Education (K-6)/ESE (K-12) with ESOL and Reading endorsements. The requirements for Elementary/ESE Education are a major in Elementary/ESE Education and a minor outside of the Department of Teaching and Learning. Program Contact Dominic Castillejo SR. Advisor Academic Services (305) 284-5990 d.castillejo@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Teaching and Learning 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-8691 305-284-8691 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices