Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Application Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Financial F.A.Q. Program Contact Special Education - M.S.Ed. Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Application Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Financial F.A.Q. Program Contact Special Education - M.S.Ed. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Master's Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. AAA Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Application Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Financial F.A.Q. Program Contact Special Education - M.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Education and Social Change (ESoC) M.S. Ed. focuses on the complexities of the world of education beyond classroom walls, the classroom context of teaching, and the students in urban classrooms. The three primary goals of the program include improving instruction for diverse populations, preparing teachers for leadership roles within their schools, and preparing teachers to lead future change efforts in support of public education. The program includes coursework that uses a critical lens to emphasize culturally relevant pedagogy, student engagement and wellbeing, languaging and academic literacy development, and formative assessment for data-driven instructional decisions. The ESoC program provides cutting edge theoretical and practical understandings to teaching and learning for social justice and equity in diverse classroom settings. Additionally, the program partially fulfills state teacher certification requirements for novice teachers with a FDOE Temporary Teaching Certificate seeking permanent certification. No formal background in education or teaching experience is required. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Teaching and Learning 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-8691 305-284-8691 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices