Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Special Education - M.S.Ed. Faculty Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Special Education - M.S.Ed. Faculty About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Master's Special Education - M.S.Ed. AAA Special Education - M.S.Ed. Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Special Education - M.S.Ed. Faculty GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The University of Miami Department of Teaching and Learning, consistently ranked among the top graduate programs in curriculum and instruction by Academic Analytics, is seeking qualified applicants for its Master of Science in Education (M.S. Ed.) degree with a concentration in Special Education. This degree prepares individuals to work with students with disabilities in collaborative school environments. The course of study consists of 30-36 credits over six terms (one year that includes two summers). The program accommodates both working teachers and individuals seeking initial teacher certification in special education. The initial certification option includes 6-credit hours of student teaching including related Florida Educator Accomplished Practices support. The State approved program provides competencies for initial certification in K-12 special education with reading and ESOL endorsement. There is up to 60% tuition support sponsored by the School of Education and Human Development. The School makes these awards at the same time as final admissions decisions are made. Qualifications for Consideration for Master of Science Program In order to be considered for admission, applicants must submit: Completed online application submitted prior to June 1 for Fall (August) admission; Three letters of recommendation, preferably from former faculty familiar with academic work or current/former principals, assistant principals, department chairs (e.g., someone in a supervisory role); Official transcripts from all previous undergraduate and graduate enrollment; Minimum cumulative GPA = 3.0 from previous institution(s) enrolled; Resume/CV How to Apply Application Check List A completed application form here Pay non-refundable application fee of $85 Submit Essay - (uploaded under "Statement of Purpose") Submit official transcripts Submit resume/CV Curriculum Requirements Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study Program Contact Program Manager Donner Valle Program Manager Department of Teaching and Learning Merrick Building 324-A dvalle@miami.edu 305-284-2425 For Application Process Questions, contact: Graduate Studies Office soegradadmissions@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Teaching and Learning 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-8691 305-284-8691 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices