Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Teaching and Learning - Ph.D. Language & Literacy Learning in Multilingual Settings (LLLMS) Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Special Education (SPED) Applied Learning Sciences - Ed.D. Undergraduate Minors Bachelors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Teaching and Learning - Ph.D. Language & Literacy Learning in Multilingual Settings (LLLMS) Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Special Education (SPED) Applied Learning Sciences - Ed.D. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Doctoral Teaching and Learning - Ph.D. AAA Teaching and Learning - Ph.D. Teaching and Learning - Ph.D. Language & Literacy Learning in Multilingual Settings (LLLMS) Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Special Education (SPED) Applied Learning Sciences - Ed.D. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply What We Do We are a department of educators and researchers who prepare the next generation of educational leaders, researchers, instructional designers, and teacher educators. Our Ph.D. program has a strong focus on diversity, equity, and interdisciplinarity, offering students the opportunity to pursue research in areas such as instructional interventions, including specialized instruction for students with disabilities; innovative use of technology; bi/multilingualism; multiliteracy; teacher preparation; family engagement, learning in community settings; and science, technology and mathematics (STEM) teaching and learning. Our faculty express their commitment to improving educational achievement and equity through research, professional development, and collaborations with community partners. Foundational Coursework All TAL doctoral students take a set of foundational courses including Introduction to the Science of Learning, Introduction to Research, Teaching and Teacher Education, and Issues and Trends in Multicultural Education. In addition, students take at least 15 credits of coursework in research methods, selected from a range of options covering quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods approach to design and data analysis. Areas of Specialization In addition to developing a shared foundation for understanding and investigating educational phenomena, our doctoral students select one of three areas of specialization: Language, Literacy, and Learning in Multilingual Settings (LLLMS); Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Education; and Special Education (SPED). Students take four courses in their area of specialization and may also take courses in other areas. Language & Literacy Learning in Multilingual Settings (LLLMS) Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Special Education (SPED) Program Details Applicants who have a Master’s degree in education or a related field may apply up to 30 credits from their graduate degree towards the 60 required credits of coursework. Students must also enroll in 12 dissertation credits. Our program is designed as a full-time, face-to-face program. Students typically complete their Ph.D. in 4 years, though some students may be able to complete all requirements in 3. Qualified students are awarded a tuition scholarship for the full duration of their program. In addition, we seek to offer Graduate Student Assistantships to as many admitted students as possible. These Assistantships offer students a 9-month stipend which involves 20 hours per week of research experience, community engagement work, pre-service teacher supervision, and/or teaching. Further information on coursework, program milestones, and supports is available in the TAL Ph.D. Doctoral Student Handbook, available on request from the TAL Ph.D. Program Director. Information on specific courses and a sample Program of Study is available in the University of Miami Course Bulletin. Requirements for Admission The following are required for consideration for admission to the Ph.D. Program in Teaching and Learning: Undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Graduate grade point average of at least 3.5 on a 4.0 scale. Three letters of recommendation. At least two letters should include a specific evaluation of the candidate’s potential to engage in scholarly research. The individuals best suited to evaluate a candidate’s scholarly potential are usually former professors, academic advisors, or research supervisors. The written statement of intent in the UM online application. The statement should describe how obtaining a Ph.D. in the candidate’s selected area of specialization fits with the candidate’s specific interests and career goals. Recent (within 5 years) Graduate Record Exam (GRE) scores. The Department does not have a minimum score for admission. Instead, an applicant’s GRE scores are considered as one indicator of academic competence. Faculty also consider the applicant’s background, stated goals, and letters of recommendation. International applicants whose native language is not English must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) and the Graduate Record Examination. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. A phone or online interview may be required. Applicants will be notified as appropriate. Additional factors affecting admission decisions include available space in the program and faculty advising commitments. Applicants are encouraged to contact faculty in their prospective area of specialization to discuss the match between the applicant’s interests and the faculty members’ areas of research. Previous experience in teaching and learning is highly desirable. Frequently Asked Questions Open All Tabs Does this program prepare students for a career in research? The Ph.D. program is designed to prepare candidates to do research in a variety of educational contexts, including PreK-12 schools and informal learning environments. Program graduates have also taken positions that are focused on pre-service teacher preparation, teacher professional development, or curriculum development, to name a few areas. When is the application due? The deadline to submit applications for fall admissions is June 30. However, review of applications will begin in January. Applicants are therefore advised to submit their applications as early as possible. What are the GPA and GRE scores required to be accepted? The Department does not have a minimum score for admission. Instead, an applicant’s GRE scores are considered as one indicator of academic competence. Faculty also consider the applicant’s background, stated goals, and letters of recommendation. I’m an international student. Do I need to submit TOEFL scores? If you are an international student who completed a graduate program in an English-speaking country (e.g. United States, Canada, Australia), you do not need to submit TOEFL scores. If you are new to a graduate program in the U.S., then you need to submit TOEFL scores. The minimum TOEFL score is … How many credit hours are required to earn a Ph.D.? The program requires 60 credit hours of study beyond the undergraduate degree, plus 12 dissertation credits. Do I need to have earned a Master’s degree prior to entering the program? A Master’s degree is not required for admission. How many graduate level semester hours can I transfer from my Master’s degree? With approval of the student’s Supervisory Committee, a student may apply a maximum of 30 graduate-level credits to their Program of Study. What is a Program of Study and when should it be submitted? The Program of Study for the Ph.D. degree in the Department of Teaching and Learning is individualized based on the student’s career goals, previous academic and professional background, and faculty recommendations. Students are required to file a Program of Study and a Course Sequence Plan prior to the end of the second semester of study. Do I have to be a full-time student? Yes. The program is designed as a full-time program How do I choose which courses to take? Courses are selected in consultation with the student’s Supervisory Committee. Can I take courses in other program areas as part of my doctoral degree? Yes, course selection is jointly decided by the student and the student’s Supervisory Committee. How long does it usually take to complete the program? Most students who enter the program with a Master’s degree in education complete the program within 4 years. What are admission decisions based on? We base our admissions decisions on an applicant’s total application folio. We suggest the following to maximize your chances of admission: Your letters of recommendation should speak directly to your potential as a student in an academically demanding doctoral program who will be expected to assume increasing responsibility for independent learning. -Your statement of purpose should address how your career aspirations match our goals for program graduates. If you have any extraordinary accomplishments that we should know about, submit them with your application materials. Familiarize yourself with our faculty members’ research. Feel free to contact individual faculty members to explore areas of mutual interest. Where can I find information about financial aid? This information can be found here. Let's Get Started With Your Application Program Contacts Program Director Ji Shen Director, TAL Ph.D. Program Professor, Department of Teaching and Learning Merrick Building, 324-B j.shen@miami.edu Application Process Questions Graduate Studies Office 305-284-2167 soegradadmissions@miami.edu Admission Inquiries Specialization in Special Education Batya Elbaum 305-284-4218 elbaum@miami.edu Specialization in Language and Literacy Learning in Multilingual Settings (LLLMS) Matthew Deroo 305-284-7343 deroomat@miami.edu Specialization in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Ji Shen 305-284-4970 j.shen@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Teaching and Learning 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-8691 305-284-8691 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices