Skip To Main Content Departments Info For Giving Contact College of Engineering Home Search Aerospace Biological & Agriculture Biomedical Chemical Civil & Environmental Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Technology & Industrial Distribution Industrial & Systems Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Multidisciplinary Nuclear Ocean Petroleum Prospective Students Current Students Search Search Menu About Academics Admissions & Aid Research People Search Search Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Research People Giving Contact College of Engineering Home About About Us Accreditation: OCEN Program Maps and Directions News Contact Us Faculty Positions Making Waves in Ocean Engineering Learn more about our department! Academics Academics Advising Engineering Honors Global Programs Student Organizations Senior Capstone Design Experience Degree Programs Admissions & Aid Admissions and Aid Entry to a Major Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Research Research GLDD Coastal and Dredging Laboratory People Leadership Faculty Staff Ocean Engineering Important Notice COVID-19 guidance and testing locations Ocean Engineering Grid One Department, Two Locations Degrees offered: B.S.; M.S.; M.Eng.; Ph.D. Learn about our programs 2020-21 Department Highlights Take a look at a few of the key highlights from the past year in our department. College Station A New Generation of Engineering Galveston A Campus by the Sea Recent News Graduate student determines optimal shape for wave energy converters Ahmed Hamada from the Department of Ocean Engineering numerically analyzed the various shapes of Point Wave Energy Converters to determine which was the most effective in terms of maximizing energy output. He presented his findings at a national maritime convention. Scholarship recipient shares his ocean engineering journey Ocean engineering senior and 2021 American Bureau of Shipping Scholarship awardee Joshua Lund comes from a long line of engineers. His time as an international hockey player was not going to deter him from following his dream to obtain his own engineering degree. On the pathway to unlocking ocean wave energy Dr. HeonYong Kang, ocean engineering assistant professor, and his team are working on two projects to enhance wave energy converters and allow them to be a cost-competitive source of renewable energy. View All News Resources What is Ocean Engineering? The world is connected by oceans. The world is protected by ocean engineers. Our uncompromising vision is to establish an ocean engineering program that is a pioneer in modern curriculum, an innovator of education techniques, and a leader in key established/emerging research/technology areas. Explore Our Degree Programs The Department of Ocean Engineering is jointly hosted on Texas A&M University's College Station and Galveston campuses, combining the world-class resources and location of each to provide students a unique educational experience. A Career in Ocean Engineering Employment opportunities exist within private industry, defense contractors, consulting firms, and government agencies. See where an ocean engineering degree can take you. Learn More Career Opportunities Undergraduate Scholarships Transfer Requirements Advising Galveston Campus Virtual Tour OCEN Zoom Backgrounds Upcoming Events View All Events By The Numbers More Facts and Figures 159 enrolled undergraduate students 76 enrolled graduate students 10 affiliated research laboratories The Department of Ocean Engineering College of Engineering Texas A&M University The Department of Ocean Engineering Texas A&M University 727 Ross Street College Station, TX 77843 Phone: 979-845-4515 Fax: 979-862-7972 Follow Our Department: Ocean Engineering Facebook page Ocean Engineering YouTube channel Ocean Engineering LinkedIn group Find Us On Campus Office: H.J. (Bill) and Reta Haynes Engineering Building (HEB) Maps & Directions Texas A&M University College of Engineering, 3127 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-3127 ( ZACH) easa@tamu.edu (979) 845-7200 Staff Directory Site Map Site Policies About this Site Employment Follow Us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube The College of Engineering is a member of Texas A&M University Texas A&M Engineering is a member of The Texas A&M University System Copyright © 2022, Texas A&M Engineering Communications, All Rights Reserved State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Open Records Risk, Fraud, & Misconduct Hotline Accommodations Statewide Search Texas CREWS Environmental Health, Safety, & Security