Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Department of Maritime Transportation Search Degrees Future Students Current Students Training & Research Faculty & Staff News & Events Resources Select Web or People Web People Search Maritime Transportation: Home Degrees Future Students Current Students Training & Research Faculty & Staff News & Events Resources Department of Maritime Transportation Leading the Way Our faculty are industry veterans, expert educators, and passionate researchers. Get To Know Us Set Your Course Choose the right path for you. Button: Explore Our Curriculum Get Your Feet Wet Our expertly taught courses rely on hands-on practicality. Learn and Lead Be a Part of Something Big Become an AggieGet the skills you need to have the impact you want. ‹ Carousel Control LeftCarousel Control Right › Department of Maritime Transportation The Department of Maritime Transportation The mission of the Department of Maritime Transportation is to provide students with a solid academic foundation on which to build their careers. Those who successfully complete the program will earn a Bachelor of Science degree and will qualify to take the U.S. Coast Guard license examination for licensing as a Third Mate for any gross tonnage upon oceans, steam or motor vessels. Cadets are also provided with solid fundamentals in business topics related to the maritime industry, ashore and at sea. Participation in the Corps of Cadets through Texas A&M Maritime Academy is required for Maritime Transportation students. Texas A&M Maritime Academy Embedded within Texas A&M University at Galveston is the only US maritime academy located on the Gulf of Mexico. Our mission is to provide the highest quality of education and leadership training necessary in producing top-notch, professional U. S. Coast Guard licensed Merchant Marine officers (deck and engine). To meet this mission, the Texas A&M Maritime Academy includes a Corps of Cadets. Corps of Cadets Cadets pursuing a US Merchant Marine Licensing Option (LO) do not have a military obligation. Cadets do have the option to pursue a commission in the US Navy through the Navy ROTC, can request active duty in the U.S. Marine Corps (Platoon Leaders Course – PLC), or a direct commission in the U.S. Coast Guard. Learn More about Texas A&M Maritime Academy In The Spotlight In the Industry: 3rd Annual Shell Leadership Weekend Texas A&M University at Galveston hosted their third annual Shell Leadership Weekend... Read More About Shell Leadership Weekend Leading the Way: Captain Jay Rivera First Very Large Crude Carrier docks with Texas A&M Maritime Academy graduate as the pilot... Read More About Captain Jay Rivera Tradition of Excellence: Four MART Students Receive Scholarships Bouchard Transportation Co., Inc. of Melville, New York is giving a new scholarship to Texas A&M University at Galveston... Read More About the scholarship Back to topBack to top Department Guide Back to topBack to top About Texas A&M ABOUT TAMUG Links TAMUG at a Glance History of TAMUG Admissions Admissions Links Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Texas A&M Maritime Academy Marine Training & Safety Links TAMMA Links About TAMMA Apply to TAMMA Academic Resources Academic Resources Links Majors & Minors Jack K. Williams Library Faculty Resources Research at TAMUG Graduate Studies Center for Academic Learning Support Sea Camp & Outreach Sea Camp Links Sea Camp & Outreach Programs Field Trip Opportunities Administration Administration Links Vice President & Executive Team Office of Academic Affairs Administration & Auxiliary Services Information Technology Diversity at TAMUG Human Resources Make a Gift Title IX Emergency Preparedness Open Records TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road Galveston, TX 77554 Phone: 409.740.4400 Back to top Accessibility – Privacy – Legal Notices – Annual Security Report – Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form – Contact us – Contact Webmaster – Mental Health Resources – State of Texas – Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search – Texas Veterans Portal – Texas CREW – Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline – Texas Veterans Commission © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System