Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Maritime Business Administration Department Search Degrees Future/Transfer Students Current Students Research Faculty & Staff News & Events Resources Industry Affiliations Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Maritime Business Administration Department Degrees Future/Transfer Students Current Students Research Faculty & Staff News & Events Resources Industry Affiliations Maritime Business Administration Department - Texas A&M Galveston, TX LEADING THE WAY Our faculty are industry veterans, expert educators, and passionate researchers. Get To Know Us FIND YOUR PATH Choose the right course for you. Explore our degrees ALWAYS SEEKING ANSWERS Our research is a driving force in the industry. How to Get Involved BE A PART OF SOMETHING BIG Get the skills you need to have the impact you want. Become an Aggie‹ Carousel Control LeftCarousel Control Right › Maritime Business Administration Department The Maritime Business Administration Department seeks to create the next generation of leaders in maritime commerce and industry. Our expert professors bring years of industry and educational experience to the classroom in order to facilitate relevant and in-depth learning. Due to the close proximity to Galveston Bay, the ports of Houston and Galveston, and the Gulf of Mexico, students are well-positioned for a thorough and exciting educational experience. Graduates are prepared to embark on a successful career in a continuously growing field. In The Spotlight In The Industry: 3rd Annual Shell Leadership Weekend Texas A&M University at Galveston hosted their third annual Shell Leadership Weekend... Read More Leading the Way: Dr. Joan Mileski Dr. Joan Mileski, professor and department head of Maritime Administration at Texas A&M Galveston will be one of the featured speakers... Read More Departmental Guide Back to topBack to top © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top