Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Department of Marine and Coastal Environmental Science Search Degrees Future Students Current Students Research People News & Events Resources Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Department of Marine and Coastal Environmental Science Degrees Future Students Current Students Research People News & Events Resources Department of Marine and Coastal Environmental Science LEADING THE WAY Our faculty are pioneers and educators at the forefront of marine science. Get To Know Us FIND YOUR PATH Choose the right course for you. Explore our degrees ALWAYS SEEKING ANSWERS Our research is crucial, providing numerous opportunities for students. How to get involved BE A PART OF SOMETHING BIG Get the skills you need to have the impact you want. Become an Aggie‹ Carousel Control LeftCarousel Control Right › Department of Marine and Coastal Environmental Science The Marine and Coastal Environmental Science Department at Texas A&M University at Galveston covers a diverse array of disciplines relating to the study and management of the marine environment. Our top quality faculty and staff serve as guides in both the classroom and the lab, allowing students to grow, learn, and lead as scholars and scientists. The proximity to the sea provides limitless opportunities for students to have hands-on experiences, greatly enhancing their abilities and knowledge as they embark in their chosen field. In The Spotlight In the Community: Dr. Brody and CTBS By the time Harvey hit the Houston and Galveston area, it had ceased to be the monstrous category 5 hurricane that seemed to erase the entire Gulf of Mexico from radar maps. Read More about Read about Dr. Brody and CTBS Lead Response to Hurricane Harvey Recognition: Dr. Pete van Hengstum Dr. Pete van Hengstum has been named the 2017-2018 Texas A&M University at Galveston Montague-Center for Teaching Excellence Scholar. Read More about Marine Scientist Named Montague-Center for Teaching Excellence Scholar Tradition of Excellence: Dr. Bill Merrell Dr. William "Bill" Merrell of Texas A&M University at Galveston has been honored with the distinguished titles of President Emeritus and as one of the 2017-2018 Regents Professors... Read More about Read about Dr. Bill Merrell Department Guide © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top