Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Campus Closure Campus will be closed Monday, May 30, 2022 in observance of the Memorial Day holiday and will re-open on Tuesday, May 31, 2022. Have a safe holiday! What are you looking for? Search Academics Explore Areas of Study Academic Advising and Planning Academic Support Colleges Registrar Faculty Directory Library Admissions Apply Today! Admissions Counselors First-Time Freshmen Returning Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Admitted Students International Students Military & Veterans Visit TAMU-CC Cost & Aid Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Paying Your Bill Student Employment Student Life Get Involved Student Support Campus Safety Islander Housing Dining Campus Resources Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Spirit & Traditions Diversity Research Overview Centers & Institutes Funding Opportunities Sponsored Projects Research Engagement Research Integrity About Us Campus Map Campus Directory Parents & Families Community Leadership The Arts Campus Divisions Campus Facilities Campus Initiatives History Website Feedback Form Current Students Alumni Athletics Calendar News MyTAMU-CC Academic Calendar Campus Store Islander Dining SAIL Banner Blackboard Web Mail Reset Password Faculty and Staff What are you looking for? Search Be a Part of SOMETHING BIGGER Be a Part of SOMETHING BIGGER You're on a unique path with endless possibilities ahead of you. At Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, you'll have the opportunity to explore your passions and live beyond the classroom. Explore Areas of Study Scroll Down Welcome to THE ISLAND Welcome to THE ISLAND Discover the Island University, the only university in the nation located on its own island, at the heart of the Texas Gulf Coast. With palm tree lined pathways throughout the campus, nearby natural wetlands, a scenic hike-and-bike trail and pristine views of the beach and bay, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi is a first-choice institution. Visit Us Memories for a lifetime Memories for a lifetime The college experience involves more than your course of study. The connections you make and activities you participate in are equally important to your success. Live Beyond the Classroom Be a Part of Something Bigger Be a Part of Something Bigger The university's unique research institutes allow students - at all levels - to explore the issues facing the Gulf of Mexico region and beyond. Explore Research Discover The Arts Discover The Arts Our campus is open to the Coastal Bend community. We invite you to share in our love of the arts and join us for upcoming visual and performing arts events. Explore the Arts Discover Research Discover the Arts News News 37 Islander Faculty Receive Promotion and/or Tenure Read More Island University Receives NEH Grant to Expand Resources of Texas State Museum of Asian Cultures Read More See All News Events Events 05.31 1000 Paper Cranes Peace Project 05.31 8:00AM Mary & Jeff Bell Library, 1st Floor Read More Apply to ECDC at TAMU-CC 05.31 8:00AM Read More See All Events Apply Now Visit Us Make a Gift Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin TikTok Snapchat Galleries YouTube Campus Map the arts Bell Library News Calendar Directory 6300 Ocean Drive, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 361.825.5700 marcom@tamucc.edu Policies & Info CREWS Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud, and Misconduct Hotline Veterans Portal Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Campus Security/Fire Safety Report SB 18 Compliance Report Title IX/Sexual Assault Complaint Resolution State Auditor Fraud Hotline Online Institutional Resumes Course Syllabi and Instructor Information State Linking Policy Careers Coronavirus Info Privacy Statement Accessibility Accreditation Open Records © Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi