skip to Main Content . Learning Changemaker Institute Design Thinking Life Design Education Research & Scholarship Social Innovation & Social Entrepreneurship Minor Co-curricular Awards Internships Student Employment News Events About Center Overview People Social Entrepreneurship Professors Partnerships Community Changemaker Fund Contact Us Donate Search Open Mobile Menu The Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking The Taylor Center cultivates a diverse network of changemakers who are working and learning together to create a more just and equitable society. Our programs are grounded in the teaching, research, and practice of social innovation and design thinking. Taylor Center News Changemaker Institute (CI) Ventures 2022 Each year, a select group of graduate students in Taylor’s social venture accelerator, the Changemaker Institute, work tirelessly on Thursdays, in the evenings and on weekends to propel their idea for social change into a viable and sustainable social enterprise.… Read more Request for Proposals: Marketing Consultant Background The Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking cultivates a diverse network of changemakers who are working and learning together to create a more just and equitable society. Our programs are grounded in the teaching, research,… Read more Tulane University Life Design Education Reaching Over 10,000 Students Globally 300 educators have accessed our Life Design materials to use in their school, campus, or classroom, reaching over 10,000 learners worldwide. The open access Taylor Your Life Educator materials were created to support changemaking career development with human-centered design methods… Read more More Taylor News For Undergraduate Students Taylor offers many opportunities to undergraduate students interested in changemaking, including funding, coursework, programming, and employment. Taylor for Undergraduate Students For Graduate Students Taylor provides graduate students from any discipline and department funding and programming to learn changemaking skills to bring to their academic experience and future career. Taylor for Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Taylor supports faculty and staff members interested in bringing social innovation and design thinking into their research, scholarship, classrooms, and workplaces. Taylor for Faculty and Staff For Community Members Taylor offers opportunities to members of the Gulf Coast community and beyond interested in social innovation and design thinking training, events, and partnerships. Taylor for Community Members Loading view. Events Search and Views Navigation Search Enter Keyword. Search for Events by Keyword. Find Events Event Views Navigation List List Month Day Photo Week Today Upcoming Upcoming Select date. June 2022 Fri 3 June 3 | 9:30 am - 11:00 am Design Thinking Breakfast with Dr. Tyra Gross Virtual Event Casual breakfast series to meet new folks, practice using design, design thinking, and other designerly approaches to create social impact. About this event About Our Guest Dr. Tyra Gross is an Associate Professor in the Department of Public Health Science… Previous Events Today Next Events Subscribe to calendar Google Calendar iCalendar Export .ics file Contact taylor@tulane.edu (504) 314-7069 Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Locations 7001 Freret St Howard Tilton Memorial Library, 4th Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA, 70118 612 Andrew Higgins Blvd. Taylor Education Center, Suite 4005 New Orleans, LA 70130 Taylor Links For Undergraduate Students For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff For Gulf Coast Community Members About the Taylor Center Contact Us Donate © 2020 The Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking. Back To Top ×Close search Search Search Submit ×