skip to Main Content . Learning Changemaker Institute Design Thinking Life Design Education Research & Scholarship Social Innovation & Social Entrepreneurship Minor Co-curricular Awards Internships Student Employment News Events About Center Overview People Social Entrepreneurship Professors Partnerships Community Changemaker Fund Contact Us Donate Search Open Mobile Menu Julia Lang, M.S. Professor of Practice and Associate Director of Career Education and Life Design People » Home » Julia Lang, M.S. jlang@tulane.edu 504-247-1963 Julia Lang, M.S., is a Professor of Practice and the Associate Director of Career Education and Life Design at the Taylor Center. In this role, Lang supports students in identifying their changemaker paths – where their academic interests and career aspirations intersect with a commitment to make positive social impact throughout their lives. Lang was integral in the launch of the Taylor Center as the inaugural staff member in 2014. In 2015, she founded Taylor Your Life, a course that empowers students to find changemaking careers. Since then, she has reached over 8.000 students, trained 18 instructors in life design, served as a coach for Stanford University’s Life Design Studio, and has consulted with several other colleges, universities, and K-8 schools about the future of work and embedding life design into their curriculum. Lang’s Taylor Your Life curriculum is available open source for any educator and is used in over 75 universities and colleges worldwide. In 2019, Lang designed and launched Taylor Your Tulane. This one-credit life design lab uses design mindsets to teach first-year students how to create a Tulane experience that is uniquely suited to their interests and curiosities. She also created and leads TYL4Grads, a 5-week changemaking career development lab, to support graduate and professional students in designing a meaningful life after graduate school. At the Taylor Center, she also oversees the Changemaker Institute. This semester-long social venture accelerator for graduate students deepens students’ understanding of social issues, connects them to local mentors and experts, and equips them with entrepreneurial tools to create a social enterprise. Since 2017, Lang has coached three international cohorts for the Ashoka U Changemaker Commons. She is highly involved in the Ashoka U community of practitioners embedding changemaking in higher education around the world. In her work at Taylor, Lang incorporates her diverse interests in student development, experiential education, civic engagement, social justice, positive psychology, design thinking, and health and wellness. Lang has a B.S. in Human Development from Cornell University, and a M.S. in Education from Oregon State University. In Oregon, she helped launch the Center for Civic Engagement and developed service-learning trips and programs throughout the Northwest. Previously, she led community engagement curricula and programs with the Civic Leadership Institute at the University of California, Berkeley; served as House Director in iHouse, a residential living center for 60 international students; and led transformative experiential gap-year programs for American students throughout Central America, South America, and Southeast Asia with National Geographic Student Expeditions, Carpe Diem Education, and Rustic Pathways. Related News Tulane University Life Design Education Reaching Over 10,000 Students Globally 300… Life Design Teaching and Training Opportunity for Tulane Staff & Faculty New… Spring 2021 Speakers for Tulane’s Social Venture Accelerator This… Taylor Your Life Spring 2021 Report Taylor… Announcing Taylor Your Life 2.0: A More Equitable and Inclusive Life Design Curriculum Since… Introducing 2021 Changemaker Institute Mentors The… Taylor Your Life Fall 2020 Report About… Julia Lang featured in Tulane Podcast on Good Authority Julia… Introducing the 2020 Changemaker Institute Curriculum By:… 7 Steps to (Re)Designing Your Life in a World with COVID-19 In… Julia Lang writes an article on the ten frameworks of life design Julia… Julia Lang leads Life Design Education training for 50 Universities On… Taylor Your Life for Graduate Students: Lessons Learned Pivoting to Zoom By… Spring 2020 Speakers for Tulane’s Social Venture Accelerator A… Changemaker Institute (CI) Ventures 2020 Each… Introducing 2020 Mentors for the Taylor Center’s Social Venture Accelerator The… Designing life: How college courses in coping are booming Tulane… Reflecting on Taylor’s first Life Design Lab for Graduate Students Reflecting… Taylor Design Thinking at the Network of Sacred Heart Schools From… Tulane Admissions Blog: “10 Cool Classes” Taylor Your Life for Graduate Students Fall 2019 Report Taylor… Changemakers Share their Social Ventures at Taylor Student Showcase Photo… Taylor Your Life Fall 2018 Report Taylor… Budding entrepreneurs unveil social ventures at Taylor Student Showcase After… Tulane prepares students to become agents of social change Photo:… Hullaballoo Article: “Tulane offers innovative courses for Spring 2018 semester” Taylor Your Life Spring 2017 Report Taylor Student Showcase Celebrates Changemaker Institute Alumni & Awards Students Over $50,000 An… A Glimpse into the Lab, “TAYLOR Your Life” “I… TAYLOR Your Life: Changemaking Career Development Program Launches at Taylor “Everything… Taylor Student Showcase Features Budding Social Entrepreneurs An… Taylor Your Life Fall 2016 Report Who Wants to Be A Taylor Center (Changemaker Institute) Fellow? I’m… Share This Tweet Share Share Email Contact taylor@tulane.edu (504) 314-7069 Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Locations 7001 Freret St Howard Tilton Memorial Library, 4th Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA, 70118 612 Andrew Higgins Blvd. Taylor Education Center, Suite 4005 New Orleans, LA 70130 Taylor Links For Undergraduate Students For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff For Gulf Coast Community Members About the Taylor Center Contact Us Donate © 2020 The Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking. Back To Top ×Close search Search Search Submit ×