skip to Main Content . Learning Changemaker Institute Design Thinking Life Design Education Research & Scholarship Social Innovation & Social Entrepreneurship Minor Co-curricular Awards Internships Student Employment News Events About Center Overview People Social Entrepreneurship Professors Partnerships Community Changemaker Fund Contact Us Donate Search Open Mobile Menu Life Design Education Home » Life Design Education Read our Frameworks of Life Design What is Life Design? Drawing from the fields of career education, psychology, and design thinking, Life Design is a creative, iterative, human-centered problem-solving methodology that can be applied to navigate change and transition throughout life. Here at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, our approach to life design is focused on changemaking, the belief that individuals in any position can work toward positive social change. We teach life design as a tool for students to navigate their transition from college to the working world, but life design can be applied to any arena you wish to explore and change in life. Our life design offerings at Tulane University include the undergraduate courses Taylor Your Tulane (for first-year students) and Taylor Your Life , as well as a 5-week life design workshop series for graduate and doctoral, TYL4Grads. If you are an educator interested in bringing Life Design Education to your school, campus, or classroom, we have made our Taylor Your Life Educator Materials free to educators worldwide. Our life design curricula is created and led by Julia Lang. Taylor Your Tulane: For First Year College Students I came into this semester not having any idea of what I wanted to do and not really informing myself of what I had opportunity to do…now, all my thoughts have become more organized. I have a sense of where I am going [and that] I was technically the only thing holding me back from a lot of opportunities. Read about Taylor Your Tulane for First Year Students Taylor Your Life: For Undergraduates Taylor Your Life has altered my perception of the job search process intensely and even of life planning in general, outside of the workplace. The curriculum emphasized the importance of being open to new opportunities and doing what truly speaks to you instead of simply doing what you or other people believe you should do. Learn about Taylor Your Life for Undergraduates Taylor Your Life: For Graduate Students ….I never thought I could do something that can have a social impact. And now I know I I will embed this in to whatever I want to do. This is the biggest thing you can do- to make social change, and why not as an engineer or researcher. Read about Taylor Your Life for Graduate Students Graduate Assistants The Life Design Graduate Assistant will work together with Taylor Center staff to communicate, promote, support, and expand meaningful life design programming at Tulane University. Learn more about Taylor Student Employees Resources for Educators Interested in bringing Life Design Education to your school, campus, or classroom? The Taylor Your Life curriculum is free to educators interested in using design thinking to map “changemaking” career tracks. Access Free Life Design Resources for Educators Life Design Education News Tulane University Life Design Education Reaching Over 10,000 Students Globally November 15, 2021 300 educators have accessed our Life Design materials to use in their school, campus, or classroom, reaching over 10,000 learners worldwide. The open access Taylor Your Life Educator materials were created to support changemaking career development with human-centered design methods… Read more Graduate Students: How can we help you Design Your Life? Fill out a brief interest form! October 13, 2021 Please fill out this brief interest form to help us build our next iteration of TYL4Grads. Background Based on the popular undergraduate course, Taylor Your Life, TYL4Grads was designed to provide graduate and professional students more clarity and direction of their career paths and… Read more Life Design Teaching and Training Opportunity for Tulane Staff & Faculty October 12, 2021 New Life Design Teaching and Training Opportunity The Taylor Center and School of Architecture recently announced an exciting opportunity for staff and faculty at Tulane to learn about and potentially teach life design courses at Tulane over the next few years,… Read more Read all Life Design Education News Life Design Education Program Team Members Julia Lang, M.S. Professor of Practice and Associate Director of Career Education and Life Design Wendy LeBlanc , MSW Taylor Your Life Instructor Kayla Smith Taylor Your Life Instructor Tiye Jones Taylor Your Life Instructor Cynthia Marie Washington Taylor Your Life Instructor Abby Lukens, M.Ed. Taylor Your Life Instructor Shaina Spector, MS, PLCP, NCC Taylor Your Life Instructor Darling Kittoe Life Design Graduate Assistant View All Life Design Instructors Learning from Leaders in Life Design Education TAYLOR Your Life was created after conducting extensive research in the field on best practices and current trends in innovative career development curriculum creation, including: Thought leaders from a variety of fields. Click here for a snapshot of materials embedded in our classes (includes readings, videos, and podcasts) Designing Your Life, the book co-written by professors of the most popular elective at Stanford University (Burnett & Evans, 2016) How to Get Any Job, Donald Asher How to Land Your Dream Job Right Out of College by Networking Like A Rockstar, Jaymin Patel Radical Acceptance, a mindfulness text (Brach, 2014) Net Impact’s Career Development Program for undergraduate and graduate students The Echoing Green and Ashoka U award winning Transformative Action Institute, which has been used at over 50 campuses including Harvard, Stanford and UCLA, (Sherman, 2015) The Ashoka U award winning Work on Purpose curriculum from Echoing Green. Read About Taylor Your Life TYL for Grads Fall 2019 Report TYL Fall 2019 Report TYL Fall 2018 Report TYL Staff Training Report 2018 (from staff who completed training in summer 2017) TYL Student and Staff Assessment through 2017 Hullaballoo Article: “Tulane offers innovative courses for Spring 2018 semester” Tulane Admissions Blog: “10 Cool Classes” A glimpse into the classroom- Blog post. Want to Learn More? Interested in colloboration or dicussing life design? Email Julia Lang at jlang@tulane.edu. Contact taylor@tulane.edu (504) 314-7069 Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Locations 7001 Freret St Howard Tilton Memorial Library, 4th Floor Tulane University New Orleans, LA, 70118 612 Andrew Higgins Blvd. Taylor Education Center, Suite 4005 New Orleans, LA 70130 Taylor Links For Undergraduate Students For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff For Gulf Coast Community Members About the Taylor Center Contact Us Donate © 2020 The Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking. Back To Top ×Close search Search Search Submit ×