Home/ Education : Degree Programs/ Students with Disabilities Menu Students with Disabilities Close APPLY NOW DIRECTORY REQUEST INFO MPH PROGRAM Education Accelerate Your Career Degree Programs Admissions MPH/MS Info Sessions Students with Disabilities Professional & Continuing Education Dartmouth Health Care Foundations Alumni Research Dartmouth Atlas Data & COVID-19 Our Research Our Broader Network Data & Tools Publications DIRECTORY ABOUT NEWS & EVENTS CONTACT JOB OPPORTUNITIES Close At The Dartmouth Institute, our goal is to help all students achieve their academic and career goals. We encourage applicants with disabilities, who contribute to a diverse Dartmouth community, to apply for admission with the expectation that reasonable accommodations and access to The Dartmouth Institute's graduate programs, including curricular and co-curricular pursuits, will be provided. The Dartmouth Institute and Dartmouth College are committed to ensuring equal access under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) as amended, and Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Applicants may disclose disability prior to admission but are not required to, nor will disability status be considered in the admissions process. Disability disclosure can be made at any time during your enrollment; however, students are encouraged to engage the interactive process and request accommodations prior to the start of classes or as soon as a disability is identified during enrollment. Early notification allows for a smooth transition and the implementation of auxiliary services or modifications in a timely manner. Students are further encouraged to make use of reasonable accommodations and the supports available throughout their enrollment. Getting Started Accommodations are determined on an individual basis through an interactive process that includes the student and The Dartmouth Institute and are based on federal law and Dartmouth College guidelines. To begin the interactive process, please contact the Geisel Office of Student Accessibility Services. Contact Information William Eidtson, EdD Director of Student Accessibility Services 603-646-5559 Email:William.Eidtson@dartmouth.edu Learn more CONTACT William Eidtson DIRECTOR OF STUDENT ACCESSIBILITY SERVICES William.Eidtson@dartmouth.edu Close Get the latest updates on applying to Dartmouth Loading... Related Sites Dartmouth College Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center Quick Links Education Programs Students with Disabilities Our Research Directory Main Address: Williamson Translational Research Building, Level 5 1 Medical Center Drive Lebanon, NH 03756 Educational Programs Address: 74 College Street Vail Building, Room 715 HB 7252 Hanover, NH 03755 © 2022. All Rights Reserved. The Trustees of Dartmouth College. Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth DARTMOUTH'S PRIVACY GUIDELINES JOB OPPORTUNITIES CONTACT US