Home/ Education : Degree Programs/ Master of Public Health/ Accelerated On-Campus MPH/ Academic Calendar Menu Accelerated On-Campus MPH APPLY NOW REQUEST INFO APPLY NOW REQUEST INFO Close APPLY NOW DIRECTORY REQUEST INFO MPH PROGRAM Education Accelerate Your Career Degree Programs Admissions MPH/MS Info Sessions Students with Disabilities Professional & Continuing Education Dartmouth Health Care Foundations Alumni Research Dartmouth Atlas Data & COVID-19 Our Research Our Broader Network Data & Tools Publications DIRECTORY ABOUT NEWS & EVENTS CONTACT JOB OPPORTUNITIES Close Discover all you can achieve in one year in our accelerated on-campus program: Program Overview Curriculum Academic Calendar Practicum Intensive Academic Calendar Program Overview Curriculum Practicum Intensive Year at a Glance The academic year is divided into four terms The first half of the year is weighted towards core requirements with emphasis on key topic areas across health policy and determinants of health The second half of the year is weighted towards elective options in quality improvement, health services research, and health policy Students need to complete a minimum of 12 units to graduate; core courses are required, and students can choose from several elective options to complete their degree Both the Applied Practice Experience (APE) and the Integrative Learning Experience (ILE) can be done independently or within designated courses Students take classes full time, with approximately 55 hours per week combined course work and class-time COVID-19 Updates: For the latest information, please review our COVID-19 updates page. Academic Calendar 2022-2023 Below is an overview of the courses taken in a given term. All information is subject to change. To see the days and times that courses are offered by term, view the full academic calendar (If you cannot access Google Sheets, please send this request.) IN THE NEWS Dartmouth Institute MPH Internships Address Key Issues in Healthcare Read More The Dartmouth Institute Graduates its Largest Class – A Distinguished Cohort of 103 Healthcare Innovators Read More Dartmouth Institute JEDI Team Builds a Force for Advancing Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Read More CLASSES START 7.8.2022 Get the latest updates on applying to Dartmouth REQUEST INFO TALK TO OUR ADMISSIONS TEAM Courtney Theroux DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS Amanda Stofesky ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS AND RECRUITMENT Dartmouth.Institute.Admissions @dartmouth.edu(603) 646-5678 FACULTY SPOTLIGHT JoAnna Leyenaar, MD, PhD, MPH Co-Director, Independent Integrative Learning Experience (ILE) See Profile Close Meghan Longacre, PhD Senior Lecturer, The Dartmouth Institute meghan.longacre@dartmouth.edu AREAS OF EXPERTISE: #community health #health intervention Biography Recent Publications Courses Taught Bio Meghan Longacre is a child developmental researcher with expertise in the socioecological influences on children’s, adolescents’, and young adult’s health risk behaviors. For the past 12 years, her research has focused on the prevention of childhood obesity. Her current work examines the influence of food marketing on preschoolers’ diet. Meghan has worked with several prominent community organizations, including the Montshire Museum of Science in Norwich, Vermont, and WGBH, the Boston PBS Affiliate, to design and evaluate research-informed curricula to promote energy-balance practices in preschool, middle-school, and high-school settings. She serves on the board of editors for the Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior, and is a reviewer for NIH’s Time-Sensitive Obesity Policy and Program Evaluation mechanism. As a qualitative researcher, Meghan consults with research teams regarding appropriate use of qualitative methods within child-focused research projects. More recently, Meghan served as the director of the Hybrid (online/on-campus) Master of Public Health program at The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice. She currently teaches the Qualitative Research Methods short course in the Hybrid MPH program. In addition, she is the co-Course Director for the “Practicum” series of courses (PH261-PH264), which combines the Applied Practice Experience and Integrated Learning Experience requirements for the Hybrid MPH program. Since coming to Dartmouth in 2001, she has mentored numerous undergraduate and graduate students. She earned a BA in psychology from Rutgers University, and an MS and PhD in family studies and human development from The University of Arizona. View CV Published Research Courses Taught PH 261/262/263/264: Practicum and Practicum Intensive (3.75 units) The TDI Hybrid MPH includes a concurrent practicum course that runs throughout the entire program, combining an Applied Practice Experience, or APE (a field study) with an Integrated Learning Experience, or ILE (written culminating project). Students develop and execute their own individual practicum with faculty support, focusing on a specific problem area or question. Skills gained in the program serve to improve health and/or health care, develop or refine policy, or generate new knowledge in a real-world setting. Using systems thinking, qualitative and quantitative methods, along with effective inquiry, student practicums will provide actionable insights and feasible recommendations. PH 214: Introduction to Survey Methods for Public Health and Healthcare (0.50 unit) This course introduces students to the use of survey methods in public health and healthcare. Students will learn basic principles of survey study design and data collection, focusing on evidence-based designs such as the tailored design survey approach. Specific activities used to learn survey methods include writing and critiquing survey questions, evaluating survey formats, and designing survey studies, including sampling, survey mode and recruitment based on the study question, context and target population. PH 161: MPH Internship (4) The public health field internship provides students with an opportunity to apply principles and skills learned in the classroom - the measurement, organization, and improvement of public health care - to real situations in the field. A minimum of 120 hours is to be spent at the placement site during the winter and spring terms. Typically, this internship occurs in the final term of the year, but other arrangements are possible, typically for part-time students, with permission of the course director. Students who have completed their internships prepare and present an overview of their experience at the conclusion of the spring term and complete an exit appraisal of their experience and achievements. Required for MPH; Not available for MS, PhD, Post-doc or Special students. Prerequisites: PH 100, 102, 111, 115, 117, 139, 140, 151, and 154 or consent of course directors. Media MORE ABOUT PAUL'S WORK Meghan Longacre serves on the board of editors for the Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior, and is a study section reviewer for NIH’s Time-Sensitive Obesity Policy and Program Evaluation grants. She serves on The Dartmouth Institute's curriculum committee, and also serves as a board member for the Montshire Corporation at the Montshire Museum in Norwich, Vermont. Close Get the latest updates on applying to Dartmouth Loading... Related Sites Dartmouth College Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center Quick Links Education Programs Students with Disabilities Our Research Directory Main Address: Williamson Translational Research Building, Level 5 1 Medical Center Drive Lebanon, NH 03756 Educational Programs Address: 74 College Street Vail Building, Room 715 HB 7252 Hanover, NH 03755 © 2022. All Rights Reserved. The Trustees of Dartmouth College. Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth DARTMOUTH'S PRIVACY GUIDELINES JOB OPPORTUNITIES CONTACT US