Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, RIVERSIDE Search Related Sites Canvas Keep Learning Keep Working XCITE UC Riverside Teaching@UCR XCITE - UCR's Center for Teaching & Learning Search Home Teaching Resources Tools Faculty Development Ta Resources Support/Training Canvas UCR Home Related Sites Canvas Keep Learning Keep Working XCITE Read More The Art and Science of Active Learning, April 20 to May 25 Improve student outcomes with active learning techniques Learn More Canvas Begins with 2022 Summer Session A! All Summer Session courses will be taught in Canvas. Attend these virtual Canvas workshops in May! Learn More Visit Canvas Website Canvas Training Student Success Center and RISE rooms Be part of UCR’s innovative future in the classroom Visit RISE Website Canvas Workshops Piazza Integration, May 24 and Summer 2022 Canvas Workshops - Sign up now Learn more Previous Next The Future of Teaching and Learning Starts Here Quick Links Canvas iLearn Yuja ZOOM GradeScope TA Resources Learning Events Our Partnerships Our Partnerships Academy of Distinguished Teaching Grad Success ITS Multimedia Resource Team Library – Teaching and Learning Services Office of the Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Student Disability Resource Center Undergraduate Education × WELCOME to teaching@ucr, your resource for innovative teaching and student engagement at UCR. We help educators create exciting teaching strategies through our expert staff, informative content, individual consultations, webinars, trainings, and links to great teaching resources and tools. Teaching Resources Tools Faculty Development TA Resources Support/Training Canvas XCITE Events - For details click on event We are XCITE! UCR’s Center for Teaching and Learning Click here for XCITE News and Events Learn more about XCITE at xcite.ucr.edu XCITE Contact Ph. 951-827-2612 Recent Topics Where can I find past XCITE webinars and courses? Click on the Support/Training tab and scroll to the Training Library section. How do I use closed captioning in Yuja? Log in to Yuja at ucr.yuja.com and locate your video. Mouse hover over the video and select More. Within the list of menu options select Accessibility. Select either Auto Caption or Human Caption and follow the prompts. Looking to maximize online exam security? Discover how to use two layers of security to protect honesty and foster an environment of academic integrity to produce more secure exam outcomes. Click here to learn more. Can I use Slack to share videos? Yes you can share files through Slack. Please read the documentation here. Where can I find Gradescope? You can add Gradescope to both eLearn and iLearn courses. eLearn: Go to course Settings/Navigation and enable it from the list of options. iLearn: Please review the instructions for enabling Gradescope in iLearn here How do I add a recorded lecture into my course from within YuJa? Once your video is added to YuJa, you can choose the "More" option from the video thumbnail menu and select "Links" to grab the link or embed code to provide to students through a course. NOTE: you may want to adjust the link "Security Settings." You can also use the "YuJa Media Chooser" integration to deploy videos to course Pages, Modules, or Content Areas from within a course. See these resources for using the YuJa Media Chooser in eLearn (Canvas) and using the YuJa Media Chooser in iLearn (Blackboard). How do I connect to my Google Drive in Canvas as an Instructor? The Google Drive web service allows you to integrate Canvas with your Google Drive account. All users can authorize their Google Drive accounts for access to Google collaborations and assignment uploads. More instructions can be found here Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR XCITE Rivera Library A0101A 900 University Ave. tel: (951) 827-2612 email: xcite-help@ucr.edu Related Links Grad Success ITS Multimedia Resource Team Library – Teaching and Learning Services Office of the Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Student Disability Resource Center Undergraduate Education Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel