Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Services and Software Password Recovery Eligibility: Faculty Staff Students Description — KU students, faculty and staff are encouraged to set up self-service password recovery options through MyIdentity Services by choosing Account Recovery Options under Passwords Services. We recommend setting up both of the following options: Challenge questions — Select five questions and answers for validating your password reset request. Recovery email address — A non-KU email address that can be used to reset your password. Show MoreMore description Access — If a self-service recovery option is not set up on your account, you will need to contact the IT Customer Service Center for assistance in resetting your password and account. Show MoreMore description Support — If you cannot reset your password through self-service, the KU IT Customer Service Center can reset your password. Customer Service Staff must verify your identity before resetting your password. Most methods require showing a valid form of government-issued identification to be shown in-person or through a video call. Contact the IT Customer Service Center through one of the following methods: Call 785-864-8080 to set up a Skype, Teams, Zoom or FaceTime video call. If you previously contacted KU IT and have a ticket number, please give that number to the IT CSC staff member assisting you. Visit the IT Customer Service Center walk-up location in Anschutz Library, room 201. If you use Duo to log in to your KU account, call 785-864-8080 to confirm identity via Duo push authentication. Start a chat by using the web chat function found on the homepage of this website. You will need the following for a password reset: Government issued identification, such as KU Card, drivers license, passport, etc. Webcam (for video calls) If you do not have access to a webcam, please use the walk-up location or call 785-864-8080 for additional options. *We cannot accept a picture, scan, or copy of the ID, including emailed pictures, scans, or copies of the ID. Categories: Accounts and Access Password Recovery Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.