Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Email Distribution Lists Email distribution lists, also known as mailing lists, listservs or discussion lists, allow people with common interests to easily share information and participate in discussions by using a dedicated email address. Messages sent to the list address are automatically distributed to all members of the group. Distribution List Options KU Group Lists Only people with a KU email address can join a KU Group List. In addition to people, other resources in the KU Global Address Book, such as conference rooms, can also be added to a KU Group List. And, these lists can be used for other purposes, such as group calendars and assigning rights to folders in data storage systems. KU Group Lists can only be made for departments, classes, and officially approved and recognized university organizations. Campus clubs and other unofficial groups must use the Mailman service, rather than KU Group Lists. Membership of KU Group Lists can be managed automatically by a nightly program that syncs with human resource and student data systems. This removes the need for anyone to manually maintain a list that is created using specific criteria (e.g., all undergrad students in Engineering). Once created, the list is automatically maintained and list owners can be assured it always contains the correct people. KU Group Lists can also be created to allow the list owner to manually add or remove members from the list. There are two types of KU Groups Lists: 1) Course Group Lists and 2) Non-course Group lists. Mailman Mailing Lists Mailman Mailing Lists can include external (non-KU) email addresses. Mailman offers a convenient, web-based interface for list owners to create lists, add members, manage subscription settings, approve messages if a list is moderated, and more. List members also can manage their own preferences through a similar web-based interface. Because of this flexibility, Mailman is the best choice for informal discussion, hobby, and interest groups. Comparing List Options List Comparison KU Group List Mailman Mailing List Only allows KU email addresses Can include any email address Only for official KU departments, classes and organizations For other informal groups on campus and groups with outside subscribers KU IT creates the list and adds subscribers Self-service ability to create, manage and subscribe to lists Offers enhanced capabilities with Outlook , such as calendars Stand-alone system, no functionality with Outlook Which Option is Best for You? Do you want the list membership to be maintained from Human Resources and Student Records data, without any manual input? Yes = KU Group List | No = Mailman Do all list participants have a KU email address? Yes = KU Group List | No = Mailman Do you want list members to be able to subscribe and remove themselves from the list? Yes = Mailman | No = KU Group List Will your list contain members who are not directly affiliated with KU? Yes = Mailman | No = KU Group List Are you requesting a list for use by an informal group, club, or some other organization which is not recognized by KU in any official capacity? Yes = Mailman | No = KU Group List Distribution Lists Service Page Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.