Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security IT Security and Public Wi-Fi When you're on the go, free wireless internet (Wi-Fi) can be tempting. However, connecting to public or "open" Wi-Fi networks is a big security risk. If you can avoid it, don't ever connect to public Wi-Fi. Alternatives to public Wi-Fi include: KU faculty, staff and students have free access to secure eduroam Wi-Fi networks at many institutions around the world by logging in with your KU Online ID and password. Bring your own Wi-Fi with you. There are numerous options for pay-as-you-go and contract service personal Wi-Fi hotspots. Or, set up a hotspot on your smartphone, if that option is available. If you must use public Wi-Fi, it is important that you understand the risks so you can make informed decisions before you connect. Following these best practices and tips can help to improve your security: Update, patch, upgrade software and apps. If something bad does get to your machine while you're connected to public Wi-Fi, having up-to-date antivirus software and apps may help. Avoid banking, shopping and other activities involving financial or sensitive information. Don't download or install anything. Only download, update and install software or apps when you're on a secure network. Only visit secure websites. Restrict browsing to sites with a URL that begins with "https://". Verify the network name before connecting. A common strategy by criminals is to broadcast free and open Wi-Fi. Look for a Wi-Fi info sign or ask someone who works there to be sure you're connecting to their public network. Configure your devices for "infrastructure" networks only. Avoid connecting to “peer-to-peer” networks, also known as “hot spots” or “ad hoc” networks. Semi-open is better than open. Networks that are "semi-open," meaning they require a password, but the password is widely available (e.g., coffee shops, hotels, etc.) are preferable to "open" or public Wi-Fi networks. Although preferable to open networks, when connecting to semi-open networks follow all the same security precautions for open networks. Turn off file sharing. Default settings on your mobile devices (e.g., laptops, smartphones, tablets) often leave your machine vulnerable to attacks. Turn off file-sharing functionality to prevent others on an open network from accessing the files on your device. Turn off automatic connect. Default settings often allow your device to automatically connect to available networks. Be sure to set your device to connect to networks manually, so you can fully investigate an available network before connecting. Turn off Wi-Fi when not actively using it. Only turn on Wi-Fi and connect your device to the internet when you need it. Forget the network when done. Default settings often allow your device to remember networks that you've previously connected to. If you must connect to an open network, set your device to "forget" that network, so it doesn't connect automatically next time you're in network range. Additional Resources Staying Safe on Public Wi-Fi (CNET) Select to follow link How to Stay Safe on Public Wi-Fi (Gizmodo) Select to follow link Top 10 Ways to Stay Safe on Public Wi-Fi Networks (Lifehacker) Select to follow link Mobile Devices (StaySafeOnline.org) Select to follow link Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.