Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security Social Media Security & Privacy Using social media and social networking sites comes with all the same security and privacy risks as browsing the internet, and quite a few more that are specific to social networking. Security Risks of Social Media The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) identifies these five primary dangers of using social media: Viruses – Placed in websites or third-party apps. Tools – Software that allows criminals to access and/or take control of accounts. Social Engineering Attacks – Emails or comments that appear to be from legitimate sources requesting information or providing a URL to malicious site. Identify Theft – Criminals learn personal details from social media posts that allow them to assume your identity or guess your passwords and usernames. Third-Party Applications (e.g., games, quizzes, etc.) – Apps can contain malicious code and/or allow access to personal information. How to Stay Safe on Social Networks How secure are your social media habits? Improve your security by following these best practices from the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (US-CERT) and the National Cyber Security Alliance: Always remember, the internet is public – Only post information that you're comfortable sharing with anyone in the world. This is no such thing as "private" on the internet. Adjust privacy and security settings – Default settings often provide the least amount of security available. Adjust the settings for each of your devices and accounts to provide the maximum protection available. Every post is forever – Even after posts have been deleted, the information can still be found. Own your presence – What you post online impacts your personal and professional reputation. Who you are online is who potential employers will assume you really are. Protect your personal info – It's what criminals are after: Read privacy policies. Don't give away your personal information. Segment friends for different types of sharing. Don't participate in online quizzes or games that ask for personal details that are often used for password challenge questions. Block, remove, report – If you see bad stuff in your feed, block, remove and/or report it. Be very cautious about third-party applications – They are frequently targeted by criminals. Antivirus software – Use it and keep it up-to-date. Keep software and browsers updated – Remember to reboot daily. Many updates don't take effect until your device is rebooted. Use unique and strong passwordsfor each account. Turn on multi-factor authenticationwherever it is an option. Be very cautious clicking on links in posts and ads. Additional Resources Social Media: Securing Key Account and Devices Social Media Select to follow link Staying Safe on Social Networking Sites Select to follow link 15 Social Networking Safety Tips To Remember Select to follow link Master Social Media Without Sacrificing Your Privacy Select to follow link Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.