Skip to Main Content Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio In our first-of-its-kind, immersive Studio curriculum, all master's students will build solutions for industry partners and develop skills in end-to-end product development and entrepreneurship. Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Find out what it’s like to study, work, and live on one of the most advanced campuses in the world. Learn More Buildings Discover how our award-winning campus helps you think better and work smarter. Plan your event Explore our high-tech venues for your next NYC event. Tour Campus Walk our campus from wherever you are in the world. Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More Visit Search for: Visit Search for: Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Buildings Plan your event Tour Campus Jacobs Institute Learn More CONNECT WITH US 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 Engineered to Matter Research, innovation & education for a digital world. News Category Campus News Category Jacobs Institute Highlights From Spring 2022! Open Studio, Recognition, research, and more! NEW YORK, NY – The 2022 … Read the story about Highlights From Spring 2022! News Category Press Room News Category Startup Studio Cornell Tech Announces Winners of its 2022 Startup Awards Read the story about Cornell Tech Announces Winners of its 2022 Startup Awards News Category Research News Category News Mixed-Reality Driving Simulator a Low-Cost Alternative Read the story about Mixed-Reality Driving Simulator a Low-Cost Alternative News Category Crypto News Category Jacobs Institute Three Ways to Save the NFT Art Market From Disaster Read the story about Three Ways to Save the NFT Art Market From Disaster News Category Women in Tech News Category Press Room Break Through Tech Announces $26 Million Investment to Increase the Number of Women in Artificial Intelligence Read the story about Break Through Tech Announces $26 Million Investment to Increase the Number of Women in Artificial Intelligence News Category New York City News Category Jacobs Institute Crunching the Numbers at School of Data 2022 Read the story about Crunching the Numbers at School of Data 2022 News Category Alumni News Category News Look Them Up: Young Alumni in Tech By Linda Copman As Cornell Tech celebrates its 10th year, the school has … Read the story about Look Them Up: Young Alumni in Tech News Category Research News Category News How YouTube’s Demonetization Strategy Fails — and What They Can Do About It Read the story about How YouTube’s Demonetization Strategy Fails — and What They Can Do About It News Category Research News Category News Grant From Meta to Spark Cornell Research Into AR, VR Read the story about Grant From Meta to Spark Cornell Research Into AR, VR News Category Research News Category News Creating Our Robotic Allies Read the story about Creating Our Robotic Allies All News & Programs Exploration on a theme Societal Impact Research for the Digital Age Inside the Studio Entrepreneurial Mindset Societal Impact Research for the Digital Age Inside the Studio Entrepreneurial Mindset The digital age is making it easier, faster and cheaper to develop new products and services than ever before. Cornell Tech is building a diverse environment of academics and practitioners who excel at imagining, researching and building digitally-enabled products and services to directly address societal and commercial needs, particularly in areas that both draw on and contribute to the vibrancy of New York City. Cornell Tech's academic environment encourages tight integration across disciplines, couples fundamental research with practice, and supports societal and commercial ventures alongside research and education. In addition to world-class academic work, a distinguishing characteristic of our research is that it engages deeply with external communities, organizations, and industry to address real-world problems and contexts that amplify the direct societal and commercial impact of our research. Advertising agencies, architecture firms and other creative organizations have long understood the power of a culture in which ideas are shared and critiqued in an open and collaborative environment. Seeing and discussing the work of your peers can inspire great work of your own. And getting constructive feedback from people whose experience and instincts you trust can help you turn good ideas into great ones. Cornell Tech's Studio culture ensures you'll get the coaching, collaboration and camaraderie you need to thrive. Our programs and our organization combine the action-orientation of business and the reflective nature of academia. We expect our academic programs to evolve and iterate rapidly, and our faculty and students to pursue startup companies, social ventures, and high-impact partnerships with companies, nonprofits and government agencies. An entrepreneurial mindset is important in any size digital-age company or organization. The digital age is making it easier, faster and cheaper to develop new products and services than ever before. Cornell Tech is building a diverse environment of academics and practitioners who excel at imagining, researching and building digitally-enabled products and services to directly address societal and commercial needs, particularly in areas that both draw on and contribute to the vibrancy of New York City. News Break Through Tech Expands to Miami! people researchers Practitioners & Researchers Judith Spitz Executive Director, Break Through Tech Impact Break Through Tech Cornell Tech's academic environment encourages tight integration across disciplines, couples fundamental research with practice, and supports societal and commercial ventures alongside research and education. In addition to world-class academic work, a distinguishing characteristic of our research is that it engages deeply with external communities, organizations, and industry to address real-world problems and contexts that amplify the direct societal and commercial impact of our research. News This New Tool Prevents Bots From Taking Over NFT Drops Research Law & Policy people Faculty Ari Juels Weill Family Foundation and Joan and Sanford I. Weill Professor Advertising agencies, architecture firms and other creative organizations have long understood the power of a culture in which ideas are shared and critiqued in an open and collaborative environment. Seeing and discussing the work of your peers can inspire great work of your own. And getting constructive feedback from people whose experience and instincts you trust can help you turn good ideas into great ones. Cornell Tech's Studio culture ensures you'll get the coaching, collaboration and camaraderie you need to thrive. News Cornell Tech Students Work To Make Spotify More Social Studio BigCo Studio people researchers Practitioners & Researchers Chad Dickerson Cornell Tech Fellow Our programs and our organization combine the action-orientation of business and the reflective nature of academia. We expect our academic programs to evolve and iterate rapidly, and our faculty and students to pursue startup companies, social ventures, and high-impact partnerships with companies, nonprofits and government agencies. An entrepreneurial mindset is important in any size digital-age company or organization. News Advocating for Equitable Employment: Khemi Cooper, MBA ’18 Programs Johnson Cornell Tech MBA people Faculty Karan Girotra Charles H. Dyson Family Professor of Management chair ALUMNI SPOTLIGHT JILLIAN SUE Challenging courses and support from esteemed faculty galvanized my ambition to solve problems in the health tech industry. Related Program Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual Master of Science Degrees with a Concentration in Health Tech 14% of Cornell Tech graduates went on to found startups 86% of Cornell Tech graduates secured full-time jobs in tech Related Program Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual Master of Science Degrees with a Concentration in Health Tech A CAMPUS WITHOUT PRECEDENT The Cornell Tech campus is a place for discovery, alive with debate, both intellectually and physically. The sustainable campus architecture isn’t just a backdrop for what is going on inside the buildings. It is a model for innovation that inspires and keeps the campus’ high aspirations on track. Explore our new interactive 360° experience! Explore Now 1 OF 5 The campus was purpose-built for the digital age to encourage innovation and promote creative collisions. 2 OF 5 The Emma and Georgina Bloomberg Center is the academic hub of the campus bringing students and faculty together to collaborate across disciplines. 3 OF 5 The House at Cornell Tech is the world’s first residential high-rise built to Passive House standards, a rigorous set of sustainability measures projected to save of 882 tons of CO2 per year. 4 OF 5 The Tata Innovation Center is a corporate co-location building that houses a mix of cutting-edge companies working alongside groundbreaking Cornell academic teams. 5 OF 5 The Graduate Roosevelt Island Hotel and Verizon Executive Education Center accelerate Cornell Tech’s role as a magnet for innovation by providing a venue for academic conferences, executive programs, academic workshops, and lodging. The Joan & Irwin Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute embodies the academic partnership between the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology and Cornell University on the Cornell Tech campus. News Choudhury, Kleinberg, and Marschner Named ACM Fellows News 10 Startups Strengthening New York City’s Comeback News Cornell Tech Celebrates 10th Anniversary of Winning NYC Competition News 4 Innovations That Will Change the Landscape of Urban Infrastructure Program Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual Master of Science Degrees with a Concentration in Urban Tech BUILT TO MAKE A 21ST CENTURY IMPACT. Alumni Building startups from the ground up Community A lasting impact on Roosevelt Island and beyond K-12 Initiative Preparing the next generation of New Yorkers for the digital age Runway Startups Part business school, part research institution, part startup incubator Break Through Tech Launching women on paths of opportunity More about impact Built at Cornell Tech Cornell Tech is a diverse environment of academics and practitioners who excel at imagining, researching and building digitally-enabled products and services to directly address societal and commercial needs. Take a look at companies, projects, and technologies built by members of Cornell Tech and the Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute. Learn about what we make here Media Highlights New York Times A Face Search Engine Anyone Can Use Is Alarmingly Accurate VentureBeat Code Ocean brings SaaS to computational-research labs, raises $16.5M Stanford Social Innovation Review Public Interest Tech Has a Pipeline Problem The Spoon With Foodtech Bridge, Green Circle Capital Highlights the NYC-Israel Food Tech Connection Route Fifty Cities That Hyped Crypto Are Now Contending With the Crash About About Career Management Jobs News Discover Built at Cornell Tech Community Engagement Contact Diversity & Inclusion Giving The Café Resources Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Safety & Security Connect with us Stay in the loop on all things Cornell Tech Email Address Subscribe 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 'Follow on instagram 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 © 2020 Cornell Tech. All right reserved.