Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Accounts Leaving KU? Learn what happens to your email and other accounts after you leave the university, and the steps you should take before you go. Before You Leave KU Before you leave KU, it is important that you prepare and take steps to protect and save any data you may want in the future. Information on this page explains how long students, faculty, staff and retirees retain access to email and other campus systems. KU Email With the exception of official KU retirees, faculty, staff and students will lose access to their KU email accounts and the data will be deleted. We encourage all staff and faculty to begin “detangling” their personal and work/school data and accounts now, and keep them separate in the future. Start by moving personal emails and stored files from KU systems to personal accounts with external providers. If you use your KU email address to log into personal online services, we recommend transitioning those subscriptions or services to your personal email address. OneDrive for Business and Personal File Storage You will need to transfer any personal files stored in OneDrive for Business or personal file storage (generally, your V: drive) before you lose access to those campus systems. You will lose access to OneDrive for Business immediately following your last day at KU. Microsoft Office Our Microsoft Office licensing agreement supports the academic and research mission of the university by providing access to Office 365 for active students, faculty and staff. You will lose access to Microsoft Office 365 and OneDrive immediately following your last day at KU. We recommend that you download or move personal files on OneDrive to another storage option at least 30 days before you leave the university. KU's Microsoft licensing agreement does not give us the ability to continue free or discounted access to Microsoft Office for students, faculty or staff — including for retirees — after they leave the university. To continue using Microsoft Office, you can purchase Office 365 or Office Suite directly from Microsoft. Saving Your KU Email and Data KU IT Knowledge Base articles and support information from Microsoft provide helpful instructions for saving and transferring your data. Knowledge Base Articles Microsoft Support Move Your School Files Migrate Email to Microsoft 365 Back Up Your Email Import Email and Contacts Students Students lose access to email and most other technology systems and services 210 days after they leave the university. However, accounts may be disabled immediately at the discretion of the university. In most cases, email notices are sent 60 days, 30 days and 7 days before accounts are deleted. You are responsible for transferring email and data to your own permanent storage prior to deletion. All emails and stored data from your KU email account and KU online services will be disposed of in accordance with KU's Record Retention Schedule. Access after Leaving KU System Access Period Email 210 days OneDrive for Business file storage 0 days Microsoft Office 365 0 days Enroll & Pay Never lose access Canvas/Blackboard 210 days (data retained five years) Faculty Faculty lose access to email and most other technology systems and services 210 days after they leave the university (exception: see Retiree info below). However, accounts may be disabled immediately at the discretion of the university. In most cases, email notices are sent 60 days, 30 days and 7 days before accounts are deleted. All data associated with your email account and data stored in your individual KU OneDrive for Business account and on your personal file storage (typically V: drive) will be deleted 30 days after your KU account is deactivated. Data you have stored in shared storage accounts, such as group file storage (typically G: drive), Microsoft Teams and SharePoint, will not be deleted. You are responsible for transferring email and data to your own permanent storage prior to deletion. All emails and stored data from your KU email account and KU online services will be disposed of in accordance with KU's Record Retention Schedule. Access after Leaving KU System Access Period Email 210 days OneDrive for Business file storage 0 days Microsoft Office 365 0 days Canvas/Blackboard 210 days (data retained five years) HR/Pay Never lose access Enroll & Pay Never lose access Falulty Adjunct and Other Renewable Appointments Adjunct and Other Renewable Appointments Click to expand Automatic notices are triggered 14 days after an employee’s status changes in KU systems. The purpose is to provide more advance notice so people who are truly leaving the university can transition their email and other data. The downside is that employees who have renewable appointments may receive the automatic emails because of gaps longer than 14 days between the official end date of the previous appointment and the start date of the new appointment (usually by semester). If you have a renewable appointment, you may receive one or more automated messages that your accounts are set to expire. When your new employment offer is confirmed in the system, it will “reset the clock” on your accounts. In the meantime, you will still have access until the date indicated on the automated emails. If you receive a 30-day notice regarding your accounts but your KU employment is continuing, contact the IT Customer Service Center at itcsc@ku.edu or 785-864-8080 and we’ll confirm your status is correct. Staff Staff lose access to email and most other technology systems and services on their last day of employment with the university (exception: see Retiree info below). If requested and approved, an extension of access to KU e-mail will be granted one time for 72 hours from the date and time the request is made. All data associated with your email account and data stored in your individual KU OneDrive for Business account and on your personal file storage (typically V: drive) will be deleted 30 days after your KU account is deactivated. Data you have stored in shared storage accounts, such as group file storage (typically G: drive), Microsoft Teams and SharePoint, will not be deleted. You are responsible for transferring email and data to your own permanent storage prior to deletion. All emails and stored data from your KU email account and KU online services will be disposed of in accordance with KU's Record Retention Schedule. Access after Leaving KU System Access Period Email 0 days OneDrive for Business file storage 0 days Microsoft Office 365 0 days Canvas/Blackboard 0 days (data retained five years) HR/Pay Never lose access Enroll & Pay Never lose access Staff Renewable Appointments Adjunct and Other Renewable Appoinments Click to expand Automatic notices are triggered 14 days after an employee’s status changes in KU systems. The purpose is to provide more advance notice so people who are truly leaving the university can transition their email and other data. The downside is that employees who have renewable appointments may receive the automatic emails because of gaps longer than 14 days between the official end date of the previous appointment and the start date of the new appointment (usually by semester). If you have a renewable appointment, you may receive one or more automated messages that your accounts are set to expire. When your new employment offer is confirmed in the system, it will “reset the clock” on your accounts. In the meantime, you will still have access until the date indicated on the automated emails. If you receive a 30-day notice regarding your accounts but your KU employment is continuing, contact the IT Customer Service Center at itcsc@ku.edu or 785-864-8080 and we’ll confirm your status is correct. KU Retirees KU faculty and staff members who retire from KU by following the appropriate unit and university processes will continue to keep their KU email address. KU Retirees will lose access to other systems on the schedule noted below for their appropriate appointment category (generally, 210 days for faculty and immediately for staff). Faculty and staff who leave the university without completing the formal retirement process and paperwork will lose access to their email account and most technology services after they leave the university. All data stored in your individual KU OneDrive for Business account and on your personal file storage (typically V: drive) will be deleted 30 days after your KU account is deactivated. Data you have stored in shared storage accounts, such as group file storage (typically G: drive), Microsoft Teams and SharePoint, will not be deleted. You are responsible for transferring email and data to your own permanent storage prior to deletion. All emails and stored data from your KU email account and KU online services will be disposed of in accordance with KU's Record Retention Schedule. Access after Leaving KU System Access Period Email Never lose access OneDrive for Business file storage 0 days Microsoft Office 365 0 days Canvas/Blackboard Faculty retirees: 210 days Staff retirees: 0 days (data retained five years) HR/Pay Never lose access Enroll & Pay Never lose access Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.