Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Accounts Personal Accounts All KU students, faculty and staff have personal accounts that allow access to technology systems and services by logging in with a KU Online ID and password. Students, faculty and staff use the KU Online ID and password associated with their KU personal account to log into most campus technology systems and services, including KU email, Canvas, Enroll & Pay, etc.). New students will create their personal account, get their assigned KU Online ID, and set up their password and email address during the admissions process. New employees will create their personal account, get their assigned KU Online ID, and set up their password and email address as part of the on-boarding process. Manage Your KU Online ID and Password Your KU Online ID and password are the keys to accessing most campus technology systems and services, so it is important that you keep them safe. KU Online ID A KU Online ID is what we call your "username." During new account setup, KU Online ID's are assigned automatically as a combination of letters and numbers (e.g., a123b456). Your KU Online ID is uniquely yours and also serves as your default email address (e.g., a123b456@ku.edu). While you can't change your KU Online ID, you can create a custom email address. Passwords Strong, unique passwords keep your information safe and help protect the entire KU community. KU IT will never ask for your password, and you should never reveal it to anyone else! KU's Password policy has specific requirements for creating, managing and changing your password. You can change your password as often as you want, but you must change your password at least every 210 days. There are two important steps you can take right now to make it a lot easier if you forget your password: Tell us a non-KU recovery email address. Set up challenge questions. Log into the MyIdentity Service and complete the steps today. Your future forgetful self will thank you! Forgot Online ID or Password? Forgot Your KU Online ID? Click to expand Go to the MyIdentity Service and select the "View Profile" button. On the KU login page, select "Set up your Online ID." Enter your student or employee number along with your date of birth or KU Card number to see your KU Online ID. Forgot Your Password? Click to expand If you forgot your password or it expired and you previously set up a recovery email address and/or challenge questions, you can reset your password yourself through the MyIdentity Service. If you don't have a recovery email address or challenge questions set up, you will need to call the IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 for help in resetting your password. KUMC Students, Faculty and Staff Some KU Medical Center students, faculty and staff may also need to access KU Lawrence/Edwards campus systems and services. KUMC students who need access to KU Lawrence systems and services (e.g., Canvas) can complete the KUMC Student Account Request form to request a KU Lawrence Online ID. KUMC faculty and staff automatically receive KU Online IDs for Lawrence campus and do not need to complete the request form. KU Directory Listing Students, faculty and staff will automatically be listed in the KU Directory. Student information is only available by logging in with a KU Online ID and password. Student data is not available to the general public. Students can manage privacy settings to choose what information is available in the KU Directory. Changing Your Name Students can change legal and/or preferred name used in KU systems and for use on class rosters and other records. Faculty and staff can change their preferred name, and may be able to change their legal name under certain circumstances (e.g., marriage), by contacting Human Resource Management at hrdept@ku.edu or 785-864-4946. What Happens to My Account After I Leave KU? Students and faculty will lose access to most services and accounts 210 days after they leave the university. Unclassified Professional Staff (UPS) and University Support Staff (USS) lose access immediately after leaving the university. However, accounts may be disabled immediately for anyone at the discretion of the university. Learn more about accounts after you leave KU. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.