Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security Multi-factor Authentication Data breaches make headlines almost daily. The most common point of entry for attackers is stolen credentials. Multi-factor authentication (MFA) strengthens protections by requiring an additional layer of security beyond username and password when accessing systems. KU has partnered with Duo to provide multi-factor authentication on the Lawrence/Edwards campus. Duo multi-factor authentication is required for: Faculty and staff Graduate research assistants, graduate teaching assistants and graduate assistants Individuals using sponsored temporary account (STA) Undergraduate student employees at the request of their department What is Multi-factor Authentication? MFA is the process of confirming a person’s identity using multiple pieces of evidence to verify who they are when accessing systems. This evidence is typically something they know, such as a username and password, and something they have, such as a device with a code or app. How Does Duo Work? Once you are enrolled and have set up Duo, log in to any KU system via single sign-on (SSO) as usual. After entering your KU Online ID and password, you will be prompted to verify your identity using Duo. Confirm your identity through the Duo app, and you will be logged in. It’s that simple! Using the Duo app on your smartphone is the easiest and most convenient way to confirm your identity. If the mobile app is not an option for you, please contact your IT Support Staff or the IT Customer Service Center to discuss your options. Beware of Fake Approval Requests! If you receive a Duo notification that you didn’t initiate, it probably means your KU Online ID and password have already been compromised and a hacker is trying to access your account. Contact KU IT immediately at 785-864-8080! DO NOT approve any Duo push or phone call notification you receive unless you are actively logging in to a system. NEVER provide a Duo code to anyone who requests one. Duo codes are only to be entered into a verified KU log in page. When logging in, double-check the URL of page to ensure it is an authentic KU website (i.e., URL ends in “ku.edu”). Why is KU Using Multi-factor Authentication? Collectively as an institution and as individuals we have a legal and ethical obligation to protect private, confidential and sensitive data to the best of our ability. In an increasingly complex digital world, username and password alone are not enough to stop hackers and data thieves. Multi-factor authentication using Duo gives KU an affordable and simple way to ensure all faculty and staff can do their part to protect their own data, as well as that of colleagues, students and other stakeholders. Can I Use Duo on My Personal Accounts? Absolutely! We encourage you to use multi-factor authentication on any personal accounts (e.g., banks, credit cards, social media, etc.) that provide the option. And, in most cases, you can use Duo to access those accounts. Duo provides information for using the app with other online services and accounts. More Info from Duo Duo's website provides additional information and a self-enrollment video guide to help you register your phone or tablet and activate the Duo Mobile application. Visit Duo Website Setting up Duo Follow the steps in our set up guide to begin using Duo at KU. Set up Guide Frequently Asked Questions Who is required to use multi-factor authentication? Click to expand The following groups who are part of the Lawrence and/or Edwards campuses are required to use multi-factor authentication: Faculty and staff Graduate research assistants, graduate teaching assistants and graduate assistants Individuals who use sponsored temporary accounts (STA) Undergraduate student employees at the request of their department Undergraduate students and KU retirees are exempt and are not required to use multi-factor authentication. Why do we need multi-factor authentication? Click to expand Passwords are easily compromised. They’re no longer enough to protect personal, sensitive or financial information. KU’s data includes YOUR data—employment information, health information, etc. A large security breach could affect the University’s finances and reputation, as well as the personal, financial and academic information of students, faculty, staff and other stakeholders. Is the Duo app accessible for people with disabilities? Click to expand According to Duo, “its authentication and self-enrollment features are compatible with screen readers such as NVDA and VoiceOver on PCs and Macs. Additionally, Duo Mobile app is accessible to voiceover functionality on Apple and Android devices. Duo has also made all the authentication and self-enrollment features accessible by keyboard for people with limited motor skills.” If you have questions or concerns about accessibility, or need an accommodation, please contact the IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu. Why should I have to use my personal phone for Duo? Click to expand Mobile phones are the most popular choice for multi-factor authentication because of the convenience. Most people seldom go anywhere without one. If using a mobile phone isn’t an option for you, contact your IT Support Staff to discuss other options. You probably already use your phone for a work-related purpose, if only to check email or let your boss know that you’ll be out sick. General concerns about the use of a mobile phone for your job, however, should be discussed with your supervisor. KU considers the use of your phone for multi-factor authentication incidental, much like the incidental use of a KU computer for checking personal email or internet browsing. Are there alternatives to the Duo phone app? Click to expand Yes. You can use a Duo display token to generate codes for logging in. However, display tokens can be forgotten, lost and/or become out of sync. For this reason, we recommend using the Duo mobile app. The Duo app will work on a smartphone even if you have no cell service or Wi-Fi coverage. When you’re logging in, choose “Enter a Passcode.” Then, open the Duo app, tap the KU logo and enter the passcode shown. we strongly recommended that you use the Duo app because it will make your life easier. Most of us keep our mobile devices with us at all times, or have them nearby. Duo display tokens can end up in the washing machine, slip out of pockets or get out of sync if pressed incidentally. What should I do if I receive a push notification in Duo that I didn’t initiate? Click to expand Assume that someone is trying to illegally access your account and do the following: Choose “Deny” in the Duo app to block the request, then Call the KU IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 and report the attempt! How do I install Duo on a new phone or reinstall the app on my current phone if I already use Duo? Click to expand If you need Duo multi-factor authentication reissued on a new device or you had to reinstall the Duo app on an existing device, contact the IT Customer Service Center at itcsc@ku.edu or 785-864-8080. You will need to answer the following: Is the phone number of the new device the same as the previous device? What is the OS of the new device? The IT CSC will then reissue the DUO multi-factor authentication. Does the Duo app on my phone give KU or Duo control or access to my phone? Click to expand No. The Duo app does not give the University access to your mobile device and does not provide any control over the mobile device. During the multi-factor authentication process, the only information provided to the University is that the authentication was completed. For more information, see Duo’s privacy policy. Does the presence of Duo on my phone make my entire phone’s contents subject to legal discoverability? Click to expand No. The use of personal phones for work-related matters does not make the phone a University phone. It would, however, make records on that phone of work-related matters subject to the Kansas Open Records Act (KORA), but those records would already be covered under KORA. A Duo Mobile code, however, would not be something KU would produce (or ask an employee to produce), any more than KU would seek to obtain or reveal an employee’s password. The use of personal phones for multi-factor authentication would do nothing to expand the reach of KU’s open records obligations. What KU services/systems require Duo? Click to expand Most enterprise applications at KU will require multi-factor authentication, including HR/Pay, Enroll & Pay, myKU, myIdentity, myTalent, CMS website administration, Blackboard, myCommunity (SharePoint), and others. Duo is also required when using the KU Anywhere VPN. Will I have to use Duo every time I login? Click to expand When you authenticate with Duo, there will be an option to select "Remember Me." If you select Remember Me, then you will not be required to use Duo for the next 30 days as long as you are logging in from the same device using the same browser (see note below). Please be aware that the 30 day time-frame may change in the future depending upon KU’s security needs. Note: There are two cases where you will have use Duo every time you log in. First, the KU Anywhere VPN will require you to use Duo each time you authenticate. There is no “Remember Me” option for the VPN. Second, you will be required to use Duo every time you log in to a classroom computer, even if you’ve logged in to that machine before. Do I have to use Duo when logging in to a classroom computer? Click to expand Yes, you will be required to use Duo every time you log in to a classroom computer. Multi-factor authentication is connected to your role as a faculty or staff member, not to the computers you use. Please note that the “Remember Me” option will not work because classroom computers are reset when you log off. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.