Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Email Departmental Email Eligibility: Faculty Staff Description — The official email address for a unit is a departmental email account. Examples include purchasing@ku.edu, pharmacy@ku.edu and hrdept@ku.edu.These accounts provide a single point of public contact, and allow multiple staff members in a unit to read and respond to emails. They also can be used to send campuswide messages from the department account, instead of from the unit leader's own KU email account. A unit or department may have multiple departmental email accounts serving different purposes and/or audiences. Benefits of departmental email accounts: A departmental account email address can be used on brochures, web pages, letterhead, etc. If staff changes, you won't have to reprint this material. People who want to contact an office don't need to know the name of the person doing a particular task in order to send email to your office. Messages in the departmental account are available year-after-year, which eases transition issues as staffing changes occur. Messages can be answered in a timely manner because multiple individuals will have access to the account. Email sent to the departmental account will not count against personal mailbox limits. The departmental account mailbox has its own 2 GB storage limit. Show MoreMore description Access — Request a Departmental Email Account Please complete the Departmental Email Account Request. If you have questions about the form, contact KU IT Account Management at 785-864-0439 or acctappl@ku.edu. You will be notified by email when your departmental account has been created. Logging into a Departmental Email Account Contact your IT Support Staff for help in setting up a departmental email account in Outlook on your KU computer. If you use mail merge in Microsoft Office, be sure to tell your IT Support Staff before they set up your shared mailboxes in Outlook. Show MoreMore description Support — For questions about departmental email accounts and/or the account request form, contact IT Account Management at acctappl@ku.edu or 785-864-0439. Technical support is available through the KU Information Technology Customer Service Center at itcsc@ku.edu or 785-864-8080. Training and Tutorials — Guides for logging into shared departmental email accounts: Add a Shared Mailbox to Outlook (Windows) Add a Shared Mailbox to Outlook (Mac) Opening a Shared Mailbox in OWA Categories: Email and Messaging Departmental Email Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.