Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security Email Security Advanced Threat Protection for Email In order to protect campus email security, KU IT has activated Microsoft’s Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP). Roughly 500,000 emails are sent to KU email users each day. Most of these emails are spam and, in some cases, they are malicious. ATP can help reduce annoying or harmful emails from ever reaching your inbox. With the help of ATP, the KU email system blocks millions of spam and malicious emails each year. Link Spoof Detection When you click a URL in an email, ATP will scan that URL and cross reference it with Microsoft’s known-threat databases. The following actions could occur: If the URL is considered safe, you will be taken to the website. If the URL is known to be malicious, you will be taken to a warning page. If the URL goes to a downloadable file, it will be scanned for malicious code. If the file is found to be malicious, the download will be blocked. Note: Hovering over the link in an email will show more information in the Tool Tip. You will see a combination of URLs and other text: the URL of the scanner, the actual URL and the metadata about the link and the recipient. The visible link will continue to appear normally, unless you hover over it. Attachment Scanning and Quarantine All email attachments from non-KU email addresses will be scanned, and suspicious or malicious attachments will be quarantined and/or deleted. Please note the following: During scanning, and especially if the attachment is large, message delivery may be slightly delayed. Attachments that ATP deems to be malicious, or that are listed on the KU blocked attachments list, will be stripped from emails. You will be notified if an attachment is removed. If you find that a legitimate attachment was quarantined or deleted, ask the sender to attach the document as a password-protected archive file or upload it to an online document sharing service. Along with other security measures, Microsoft's ATP brings top-level industry security standards to our campus email environment. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.