Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home News & Service Updates More news Featured Story Memorial Day Holiday Hours Wed, 05/25/22 KU IT Customer Service and Campus Public Computing Labs will have adjusted hours for the Memorial Day holiday. More news Sun, 06/05/22 Enroll & Pay (Campus Solutions) maintenance Enroll and Pay will be down for normal maintenance on Sunday, June 5, 7 am - 7 pm. Attempts to logon will result in a password error. Delegate will not be available. Sun, 05/29/22 Blackboard Maintenance On Sunday May 29, 2022, between 12:01 a.m. and noon, KU Information Technology will be performing necessary maintenance to the Blackboard system. During this time Blackboard will be unavailable. Wed, 05/25/22 Memorial Day Holiday Hours KU IT Customer Service and Campus Public Computing Labs will have adjusted hours for the Memorial Day holiday. Mon, 05/02/22 What Happens to KU Email After You Graduate? Graduating students should tie up digital loose ends to close out their KU email, OneDrive for Business and other accounts. Mon, 12/20/21 Be Aware of COVID-19 Related Phishing Emails Students, faculty and staff at the University of Colorado and other institutions have been targeted recently by phishing emails related to fraudulent COVID-19 relief programs. Mon, 12/13/21 Be Alert: Heightened Cybersecurity Awareness As you may have seen in the news, a major vulnerability named Log4Shell was found in a foundational Java library, which has had a critical impact on tech giants such as Microsoft, Apple, Twitter, and more. Tue, 06/29/21 New Accessibility Solution for Courses and Websites KU is introducing Ally, a new solution to help instructors and website owners make their content more accessible and flexible. Ally works in two ways: Tue, 06/01/21 KU is Moving to Canvas KU has embarked on a multi-year journey to enhance how Jayhawks teach and learn by migrating our campuswide learning management system from Blackboard to Canvas. Contact Please contact us with questions. KU IT Customer Service Center 785-864-8080 itcsc@ku.edu Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.