Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About IT Governance Overview and Benefits of IT Governance IT Governance is the structure and framework around the planning for IT services. By developing and using these frameworks built on best practices, KU will ensure that appropriate reviews are performed on IT solutions before they are purchased or implemented. These reviews will be done with an eye toward alignment with KU Strategy, and supporting the core missions of the University of Kansas. The structure also allows for security reviews, and feasibility reviews, so that any IT solutions implemented are secure, and are in the best interest of KU. KU Information Technology, in partnership with the campus community, has established a governance structure to prioritize technology initiatives for the university. The development and implementation of this IT Governance framework was developed using best practices and lessons learned from other higher education institutions, and knowledge gained from industry consultants such as EDUCAUSE and Gartner. Benefits of IT Governance Well-structured and collaborative IT Governance has many benefits for the university, including: Accountability / appropriate use of funding Ensure that funds used for technology solutions are used appropriately, and solutions have been thoroughly reviewed and vetted. Remove redundancies of services and support Ensure that KU is not purchasing duplicate solutions, or that new solutions can be applied to everyone at KU. Adaptability and feasibility Ensure that purchases or changes to services can be used by universally by everyone at KU, and that the requested changes are even possible. Stewardship of IT resources Ensure that IT is assigning the appropriate staff to the highest priority efforts, and KU can provide on-going support for the solution. Security review Ensure that the solution meets all security and risk concerns, including data integrity. Transparency and communication Wide inclusion on decision-making for core IT services, and sharing information when changes are made. IT Governance Website Campus Collaboration KU IT seeks insights and feedback from students, faculty and staff in a number of ways, both formal and informal. One of the most important is our work with a variety of groups to help us understand customer needs and inform and guide our decisions. Service Experience Councils Service Experience Councils are a way to include campus representatives in developing the future of core services provided by KU Information Technology. Each of these Councils is comprised of subject matter experts from campus, who collaborate with KU IT in the future direction of particular technology services. KU IT staff who support the individual services also participate in the Councils. The Service Experience Councils also develop recommendations on IT Projects as they pertain to core IT Services. After an IT project is submitted, it is reviewed by the appropriate Council, which assists KU IT in determining service direction for all IT projects. All of the Service Experience Councils make recommendations and report outcomes to an IT Strategic Council. The IT Strategic Council is responsible for setting annual objectives for the Service Experience Councils, and taking recommendations provided by the Councils to develop the overall IT strategy for the university. Visit the IT Governance website for more information about Service Experience Councils. CIO Strategic Advisory Councils CIO Mary Walsh created the Faculty/Staff Strategic Advisory Council and the Student Strategic Advisory Council to help KU IT listen to and better understand the needs and experiences of students, faculty and staff. Each Council meets three times a semester to discuss opportunities and barriers with campus technology. KU IT staff also shares information on new and current IT initiatives for the Council members to discuss and provide feedback. Academic Computing and Electronic Communications (ACEC) As a standing committee of the University Senate, the ACEC works with administrative personnel and other governance bodies to support and improve the academic computing and telecommunications environment at KU and to develop policy concerning information security, intellectual property rights, and other matters relating to information technology. The committee is comprised of: Five faculty members (one must be a representative of the KU Libraries). Two staff members. Two students (one undergraduate and one graduate student). Deputy CIO for Technology or designee (ex officio, nonvoting member). Associate Vice Provost for Integrity and Compliance or designee (ex officio, nonvoting member). Academic Change Management Committee The Academic Change Management Committee is comprised of representatives from the Office of Faculty Development, the Center for Online and Distance Learning (CODL), the Center for Teaching Excellence (CTE), Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging, and KU IT. The group advises and guides decisions related to changes and the overall direction related to technologies and services that support teaching and learning. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.