Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Campus Wi-Fi KU IT provides JAYHAWK wireless service for students and employees, and KUGuest or eduroam wireless service for campus visitors. You can connect to KU Wi-Fi networks indoors and in many outdoor spaces by selecting the appropriate network from the wireless list on your computer or mobile device. KU Students, Faculty and Staff The fast and secure JAYHAWK wireless network is available to all current KU faculty, staff and students. It requires students and employees to authenticate with their valid KU Online ID and password. Internet service for students in campus housing is provided by an external partner. Visit our Housing Wi-Fi and Cable TV service pages to learn more. Visit the Smart Campus Map and select "KU Wireless Coverage" under "Outdoor Features" to Wi-Fi access points. Campus Visitors KUGUEST wireless service is available to all campus visitors. Visitors from eduroam member institutions can also access the eduroam network by logging in with their home institution username and password. Read more about eduroam below. Sponsored Campus Visitors The KU-Passport wireless service is available exclusively to select visitors sponsored or designated by a KU faculty or staff member. KU-Passport wireless network offers a faster connection than that provided by the KUGUEST wireless network because there is no shared bandwidth limit. KU faculty and staff can request KU-Passport access for a campus visitor or group by contacting their departmental technology support staff. The technology support staff person should submit the request to the KU IT Customer Service Center. Campus visitors who need access to multiple online services, or who need access to KU wireless for more than a few weeks, should request a Sponsored Temporary Account. Examples include temporary workers, vendors, visiting scholar programs, summer workshops or community training programs. eduroam The University of Kansas is a member of eduroam, a global consortium of thousands of institutions offering quick and easy access to local Wi-Fi networks in more than 100 countries. Anyone with a KU Online ID can quickly and easily access the Internet via eduroam at U.S. locations and international locations. And, visitors from other eduroam institutions can connect to our Wi-Fi network using the login credentials from their home institutions. Visit our eduroam service page to learn more. Acceptable Use Policy Students, faculty, staff and visitors using campus wired and wireless networks must follow KU's Acceptable Use of Electronic Information Resources policy. Read the Acceptable Use Policy Read the Acceptable Use Policy Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.