Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Technology Ventures Search AllTechnologiesGeneral Information For Inventors Submit an Invention Report Develop Your Innovation Start a Company SBIR / STTR Awards IP and Entrepreneurship Language for Grant Applications Columbia Lab-to-Market Accelerator Network Request a Material Transfer or Confidentiality Agreement Review Inventor Policies Executives In Residence Funding Opportunities Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources For Industry Search Available Technologies Software Express Licenses Select Emerging Startups Collaborate With Columbia Researchers Start the Licensing Process Columbia Startup Fellows Search Available Technologies All Available Technologies COVID-19 Projects at Columbia Lab-to-Market About CTV Technology Transfer at Columbia CTV Fellows Program Meet Our Team Careers Forms Invention Report Form Material Transfer Agreement Forms CDA/NDA Request Form Sponsored Research Agreement Faculty Handbook IP Policy News and Events News Events Subscribe Media Videos Podcast You are here Home Main Section For Inventors Request a Material Transfer or Confidentiality Agreement Request a Material Transfer or Confidentiality Agreement Request a Material Transfer Agreement When an external party wishes to receive material from, or transfer material to, a researcher at Columbia University, CTV reviews any material transfer agreement (MTA) to ensure that the interests of the University and its researchers are protected. Receiving Materials MTA Request Form for Receiving Materials Columbia investigators should submit any material transfer agreement from an external party to CTV by completing the above online request form. Once CTV receives the submission, an assigned CTV Contracts Officer will email the Columbia investigator to confirm receipt of the MTA. The Contracts Officer will negotiate the terms with the provider and keep the Columbia investigator updated on the progress of the MTA. CTV will coordinate signatures with the Columbia investigator and the provider institution. Sending Materials MTA Request Form for Sending Materials Columbia investigators who wish to transfer material to an external party should submit an MTA request to CTV by completing the above online request form. Once CTV receives the submission, an assigned CTV Contracts Officer will email the Columbia investigator to confirm receipt of the request form. The Contracts Officer will keep the Columbia investigator updated on the progress of the MTA. When the external party returns a signed copy of the MTA, CTV will circulate a PDF copy to the Columbia investigator and authorize the release of the material. Request a Confidentiality or Non-Disclosure Agreement Receiving or Disclosing Confidential Information CDA/NDA Request Form Columbia investigators who need a confidentiality or non-disclosure agreement (CDA/NDA) to receive or disclose confidential information to an external party should submit the request to CTV by completing the above online request form. Once CTV receives the submission, an assigned CTV Contracts Officer will email the Columbia investigator to confirm receipt of the request form. The Contracts Officer will negotiate the terms with the external party and keep the Columbia investigator updated on the progress of the CDA/NDA. CTV will coordinate signatures. Recent Video Patents, Licenses, and Science-based Startups: Tech Transfer at Columbia and Beyond Sable Therapeutics The Roles of Founding Academic Scientists in Startups Corning Advanced Materials Prize: Founders Panel Discussion Medical Rehabilitative Robotics Recent Posts U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo Reestablishes the National Advisory Council on Innovation & Entrepreneurship (NACIE) DEI Initiatives in Tech Commercialization and Entrepreneurship at Academic Institutions Valo Health Acquires TARA Biosystems Creating First of its Kind Vertically Integrated Cardiovascular Platform Terran Biosciences announces licensing deal with Columbia University for exclusive worldwide rights to proprietary CNS biomarker software platform ProJenX launches to advance novel, targeted therapies for ALS and other brain diseases High Performing Algorithm to Translate Paralyzed Patients' Thoughts into Real-time Prosthetic Movements. Columbia program takes in non-university ventures to boost impact, grow ecosystem Edifecs Enters Into Definitive Agreement to Acquire Health Fidelity Morningside 80 Claremont Ave. 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 212-854-8444 Directions Medical Center 51 Audubon Ave. 2nd Floor New York, NY 10032 212-305-5198 Directions Columbia Universityin the city of new york Contact Site Map Terms http://techventures.columbia.edu [email protected]