Skip to Main Content Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio In our first-of-its-kind, immersive Studio curriculum, all master's students will build solutions for industry partners and develop skills in end-to-end product development and entrepreneurship. Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Find out what it’s like to study, work, and live on one of the most advanced campuses in the world. Learn More Buildings Discover how our award-winning campus helps you think better and work smarter. Plan your event Explore our high-tech venues for your next NYC event. Tour Campus Walk our campus from wherever you are in the world. Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More Visit Search for: Visit Search for: Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Buildings Plan your event Tour Campus Jacobs Institute Learn More CONNECT WITH US 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 Home / Campus Meet NYC’s New Tech Hub The Cornell Tech campus is New York City’s world-class tech destination. A thriving and inclusive community, a humming center of creative thinking, and a crossroads of research, education, and innovation: the Big Apple’s tech sector finally has a proper home. Three Stops From Midtown The Cornell Tech campus is just one subway stop from the Upper East Side, three subway stops from Grand Central, and 18 minutes from LaGuardia Airport. You can also get here by bike, tram, ferry, bus, and car. Get Directions Campus Buildings Verizon Executive Education Center Tata Innovation Center Emma and Georgina Bloomberg Center The House Graduate Roosevelt Island Hotel Plan Your Event Submit An Inquiry Policies and Procedures Insurance, Confirmation, Deposits, Payments, and Cancellations Reservations and Event Categories Pre Event and Day of Event Logistics Built for Innovation The award-winning design of the Cornell Tech campus is as innovative as the visionary thinkers who inhabit it. Find out what it’s like to study, work, and live on one of the most technically and environmentally advanced campuses in the world. Buildings Discover how our campus is designed to help you do your best work. Housing Learn about on-campus housing for students and faculty. Event Space Plan your next event at the Verizon Executive Education Center, our airy, modern, full-service venue. Shaping NYC’s Tech Future The innovations coming out of Cornell Tech are already impacting NYC and beyond — proving what’s possible with a campus that fosters the free flow of ideas and solutions. Built at Cornell Tech Take a look at companies, projects, and technologies built by members of the Cornell Tech campus community. A One-of-a-Kind Campus Experience Both on and off campus, Cornell Tech students experience a level of interaction — with classmates, faculty, experts, employers, and tech giants — that just isn’t possible elsewhere. “Thinking back on the classmates that I had, the one word that stands out is ‘leaders.’” Amanda Emmanuel Lead Product Manager at Attentive, Johnson Cornell Tech MBA ‘15 Lead Product Manager at Attentive, Johnson Cornell Tech MBA ‘15 Master's Programs Technology and information overcome boundaries – and so do our programs. NYC Living Meets Close-Knit Campus The House at Cornell Tech Steps away from class. Minutes from Midtown. Fully-furnished, high-end residences. Rooftop terrace happy hours. Our campus housing is NYC living at its best. Verizon Executive Education Center A gathering place for organizations to shape the future of technology. The Café The Café is a central meeting place with an ever-changing, international menu and, of course, very strong coffee. Walk our campus from wherever you are. With acres of greenspace, endless skyline views, and landmark architecture, our campus is a rare oasis in New York City. To understand how amazing it is, you have to visit. Take a Virtual Tour Easily accessed by Directions Subway Take the F train to the Roosevelt Island stop. Walk south .3 miles on W Road. Tram Catch the Tram at 59th street and 2nd Avenue. Campus is just south of the Queensboro bridge station. Ferry The Astoria route of NYC Ferry will connect you to a landing just east of campus. Bike Access Roosevelt Island by bike via the Roosevelt Island Bridge from 36th Street in Queens, then ride south on Main Street. Bus The Q102 bus connects Roosevelt Island to Long Island City and Astoria in Queens. Car Access Roosevelt Island by car via the Roosevelt Island Bridge from 36th Street in Queens, then drive south down Main Street. About About Career Management Jobs News Discover Built at Cornell Tech Community Engagement Contact Diversity & Inclusion Giving The Café Resources Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Safety & Security Connect with us Stay in the loop on all things Cornell Tech Email Address Subscribe 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 'Follow on instagram 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 © 2020 Cornell Tech. All right reserved.