Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Technology Ventures Search AllTechnologiesGeneral Information For Inventors Submit an Invention Report Develop Your Innovation Start a Company SBIR / STTR Awards IP and Entrepreneurship Language for Grant Applications Columbia Lab-to-Market Accelerator Network Request a Material Transfer or Confidentiality Agreement Review Inventor Policies Executives In Residence Funding Opportunities Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources For Industry Search Available Technologies Software Express Licenses Select Emerging Startups Collaborate With Columbia Researchers Start the Licensing Process Columbia Startup Fellows Search Available Technologies All Available Technologies COVID-19 Projects at Columbia Lab-to-Market About CTV Technology Transfer at Columbia CTV Fellows Program Meet Our Team Careers Forms Invention Report Form Material Transfer Agreement Forms CDA/NDA Request Form Sponsored Research Agreement Faculty Handbook IP Policy News and Events News Events Subscribe Media Videos Podcast You are here Home Secondary Section About CTV CTV Fellows Program CTV Fellows Program The Columbia Technology Ventures Fellows Program is a globally-recognized Fellowship that gives Columbia graduate students and post-docs hands-on experience working on early stage technology assessments, writing marketing abstracts, and preparing marketing campaigns. The CTV Fellows Program started in 2006 with four graduate students, and has since expanded to over 30 Fellows and over 160 alumni. The Program is led by Senior Fellows, who handle the management, quality control, and marketing efforts for the group. Fellows gain exposure to intellectual property, marketing, management, editing, and licensing research. After graduation, many CTV Fellows pursue exciting careers at the intersection of science, technology, business, and law. Over 160 Alumni have worked at companies including IBM, Bristol Myers-Squibb, Allied Minds, McKinsey, Merck, Samsung Ventures, at various law firms and startups, and at universities such as UCLA, Harvard, NYU, and the University of Vermont. Fellows work closely with CTV on a part-time, remote basis. The Program is intended to enhance our understanding of the commercial potential of Columbia technologies, while providing Fellows a valuable educational experience. Fellows are paid $25 per hour. Apply to the CTV Fellows Program Applications for the Fellows Program will open 9/1/2021. The first application deadline is 10/1/2021 by 5pm EDT. The second application deadline and PI approval will be due Oct. 22 at 5pm. Third round interviews will take place in the first couple of weeks in November. Apply here, and remember to verify your email address after creating an account. Information Sessions Info sessions will be Sept. 14 at 10am and Sept. 15 at 5:30pm. Both will be Zoom meetings. Eligibility The Fellows Program is open to Columbia graduate students and post-docs. We especially encourage applications from graduate students or post-docs in clinical, scientific, technical, and business disciplines, e.g. the life sciences, engineering, chemistry, computer science, and business. Candidates will be expected to commit up to eight (8) hours per week, but assignments can be completed remotely. Typical projects include assessing the commercial viability of new inventions, identifying potential licensees or investors, developing marketing materials, and analysis of patent literature. Selection Criteria Candidates are evaluated against the following criteria: Strong scientific / technical background Enthusiasm and willingness to take on new challenges Demonstrated interest in technology transfer Commitment and availability for 10 hours per week (for a minimum of one calendar year) Relevant prior experience Additional Information The Fellows Program typically holds recruiting rounds once per year, and we do encourage submissions and resubmissions from previous applicants who have taken steps to strengthen the desired skillset and experience. Relevant courses and activities are listed below. Marketing and entrepreneurship courses offered by Columbia Business School (GSAS students are eligible) Technology management courses offered by the School of Continuing Education (taught by professors from the Schools of Engineering, Business, and Law) Drug development course offered by the School of Public Health (P8146) Healthcare strategy and dealmaking courses offered by Columbia Business School Student clubs such as Columbia Organization of Rising Entrepreneurs (CORE), Columbia Entrepreneurs Organization (CEO), etc. IP and tech transfer seminars, business/science mixers, business plan competitions, etc. (join our mailing list to receive notices of these events) If you have any questions about the program or application process, please e-mail us at [email protected]. Recent Video Patents, Licenses, and Science-based Startups: Tech Transfer at Columbia and Beyond Sable Therapeutics The Roles of Founding Academic Scientists in Startups Corning Advanced Materials Prize: Founders Panel Discussion Medical Rehabilitative Robotics Recent Posts U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo Reestablishes the National Advisory Council on Innovation & Entrepreneurship (NACIE) DEI Initiatives in Tech Commercialization and Entrepreneurship at Academic Institutions Valo Health Acquires TARA Biosystems Creating First of its Kind Vertically Integrated Cardiovascular Platform Terran Biosciences announces licensing deal with Columbia University for exclusive worldwide rights to proprietary CNS biomarker software platform ProJenX launches to advance novel, targeted therapies for ALS and other brain diseases High Performing Algorithm to Translate Paralyzed Patients' Thoughts into Real-time Prosthetic Movements. Columbia program takes in non-university ventures to boost impact, grow ecosystem Edifecs Enters Into Definitive Agreement to Acquire Health Fidelity Morningside 80 Claremont Ave. 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 212-854-8444 Directions Medical Center 51 Audubon Ave. 2nd Floor New York, NY 10032 212-305-5198 Directions Columbia Universityin the city of new york Contact Site Map Terms http://techventures.columbia.edu [email protected]