Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Support Faculty & Staff Technology Help KU IT provides a diverse range of technology support to KU faculty and staff in-person, by phone, email or online chat. We also provide classroom technology support and help with teaching and learning technologies. Technology Support Centers Primary tech support for most hardware and software issues is through the Technology Support Centers. TSC staff can provide remote support by phone or email, as well as online chat or video call using Skype or Teams. When needed, they will also come to your work location to help in person. Faculty and staff also can contact the IT Customer Service Center for support. Find Your IT Support Staff IT Customer Service Center Email the IT CSC Call 785-864-8080 Chat online 24/7 Knowledge Base Classroom Support KU IT Classroom Technology Support provides assistance with equipment and hardware in classrooms, including troubleshooting, equipment check-out and training during normal business hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Contact the technology support staff in the building where your classroom is located or call 785-864-1200. Visit the Classrooms Technology website for more information. Evening and weekend classroom technology support is provided by the IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu. Educational Technology KU IT Educational Technologists provide insight and expertise in helping you choose and use the most effective tools and resources to meet your teaching needs and achieve your desired outcome for your courses. Lawrence campus: itedtech@ku.edu | 785-864-2600 Edwards campus: KUEC_EdTech@ku.edu | 913-897-8719 Lawrence Campus Support Hours Technology Support Centers (TSC) provide faculty and staff tech support during normal business hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. For evening and weekend support, faculty and staff can contact the IT Customer Service Center during the hours below. IT Customer Service Center Hours Support Method Contact Hours Support by Phone 785-864-8080 Mon-Thurs. 8 a.m. - 8 p.m. Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sat. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. Noon - 8 p.m. Support by Email itcsc@ku.edu Mon-Thurs. 8 a.m. - 8 p.m. Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sat. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. Noon - 8 p.m. In-person Support Anschutz Library, room 201 Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Self-service Support KU IT Knowledge Base Available 24/7 Password Reset Self-service or 785-864-8080 Available 24/7 (except holidays) Academic break, holidays and other special hours: Hours may vary on holidays, during breaks and in the summer. Please check our Service Updates for special hours. Walk-up support will be closed when Anschutz Library is closed for holidays and academic breaks. Check Anschutz schedule and hours. Edwards Campus Support Hours Edwards Campus Support Hours Support Method Contact Hours Support by Phone 913-897-8459 Mon-Thurs. 9 a.m. - 10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sun. Closed Support by Email kuec_support@ku.edu Mon-Thurs. 9 a.m. - 10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sun. Closed Web Form Online Request Form Mon-Thurs. 9 a.m. - 10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sun. Closed Self-service Support KU IT Knowledge Base Available 24/7 Password Reset Self-service or 785-864-8080 Available 24/7 (except holidays) Academic break, holidays and other special hours: Hours may vary on holidays, during breaks and in the summer. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.