Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security Encryption Encryption essentially turns data and content into code that cannot be read without a corresponding decryption key. Encryption is the most effective way to ensure data security. KU IT provides two types of encryption at KU: Email encryption Whole disk encryption Email Encryption Email encryption is a way to send an encoded message that can only be decoded by someone with the proper key. KU uses InCommon digital certificates for email encryption. See the Email Encryption and Digital Signatures page for more information. Whole Disk Encryption Whole Disk Encryption means encrypting the hard drive of a computer, so the data on that machine is accessible only by the decryption key holder. Whole Disk Encryption is an essential step in protecting the data on laptops if the device is lost or stolen. It gives you and the university the ability to say with confidence that no data on the device can be accessed or disclosed. Whole Disk Encryption can turn a laptop theft into a far less traumatic event, reducing the need for difficult investigations and embarrassing disclosures. KU IT requires whole disk encryption for all KU-owned laptops and offers whole disk encryption for desktop workstations. For more information about Whole Disk Encryption or assistance, contact your IT Support Staff, or the IT Customer Service Center at itcsc@ku.edu or 785-864-8080. International Travel and Encryption Encryption software is illegal in many countries. Before you travel, it is essential that you understand the encryption and export compliance laws of the countries you'll be visiting. See our IT Security Travel page for information about encryption and international travel. Whole Disk Encryption FAQs Will I have to remember a special login for my encrypted computer? Click to expand No. You will log in to your encrypted computer as you do now, with your KU Online ID and password. You will not have to do anything differently on your encrypted computer. Once installed, the Whole Disk Encryption should be completely transparent to you. I already have encrypted email. Do I need this? Click to expand Yes. While both are encryption technologies, digital certificates only protect the email messages you encrypt. Whole Disk Encryption protects your entire hard drive and all the data on it. I never carry sensitive data with me. Do I need this? Click to expand Yes. While many of us think we never access sensitive data, or store it on our computers, this is rarely the case. Think of Whole Disk Encryption as an insurance policy - your hard drive is protected, even if you think none of your data is sensitive. Does this mean the data on my computer can never be stolen? Click to expand No. While Whole Disk Encryption does stop a thief from pulling the hard drive out of your computer and downloading the data, malware can still infect your computer and steal data while you are using it. Whole Disk Encryption is just one layer of security we use to protect sensitive data. I have a desktop computer, can I still have it encrypted? Click to expand While we are asking IT Support Staff to prioritize encrypting laptops because they are more vulnerable to theft, your IT Support Staff can encrypt your desktop computer’s hard drive at your request. How do I encrypt a personal/home laptop or computer? Click to expand Microsoft provides information on disk encryption for Windows computers. Apple provides information on disk encryption for Macs and Macbooks. Additional Resources Understanding Encryption (U.S. Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency) Select to follow link Encryption: Just the Basics (National Cybersecurity Alliance) Select to follow link Encryption Tips (U.S. Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency) Select to follow link Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.