Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Working Off Campus Have the Right Equipment When working off-campus, your technology needs may vary depending on whether it is a long-term or short-term situation. In both cases, consider the equipment you may need, including a computer, display, docking station, mouse, keyboard, and any ergonomic needs. Tablets and cell phones can be useful but are not adequate standalone equipment for anything other than checking email and other simple tasks. Equipment Needs A laptop computer is needed for most remote work situations, particularly short-term or hybrid schedules. A desktop PC may be appropriate for employees who are working remotely in longer-term or permanent situations. You will also need a charging cable, mouse, audio headset, and other peripherals. For short-term and permanent remote work situations, you may be able to take the peripherals you use on campus. Hybrid situations may require two sets of peripherals. If you are planning to take home devices or peripherals that don't typically leave your office, check with your tech staff. They can assist with tracking inventory, help with disconnecting any peripherals. Consult with your supervisor and departmental IT Support Staff on equipment needs. Using Personal Equipment KU faculty and staff should not use a personal/home computer on a regular basis for KU work purposes. Checking KU email or other short-term, infrequent use of a personal/home computer is acceptable as long as the following criteria are met: Use a supported operating system that is still receiving security updates from the vendor. Using unsupported operating systems or software opens your computer up to significant security threats. Visit the Microsoft Lifecycle FAQ for information on supported Windows versions. (Windows 7 and Windows XP are no longer supported and should not be used.) Visit Apple Support for information on supported Mac operating systems. (MacOS versions prior to 10.13 are no longer supported and should not be used.) Check to make sure your computer is up to date. Windows: See Microsoft's Update FAQs for directions (look for the "How do I manually update my PC?" link). MacOS: See How to update the software on a Mac article on Apple's website. Make sure your computer has antivirus/malware protection, and that it supported and receiving updates. Protect your computer and mobile devices with a password. If your computer is shared with others in your household, you should set up a separate account for KU work with a password known only by you. If your personal laptop you have used for KU work is lost or stolen, notify the IT Security Office immediately and file a police report with your local police department. You should be prepared to describe the types of KU data you were accessing and/or storing on the computer. NOTE:Work-related files saved to your personal computer will be subject to the Kansas Open Records Act just as they would be if saved to your office computer. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.