Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security Email Security Malicious Emails & Phishing Email is one of the most common ways for hackers to steal personal information and gain unauthorized access to systems. Your knowledge and awareness is the best defense against email attacks. Generally, email messages fall into one of three types: Legitimate personal or business emails — Messages that the recipient wants or needs. Spam emails — Typically are selling a product or service, and while unwanted are otherwise harmless. Malicious emails — Seek to scam or defraud the recipient, or gain unauthorized access to personal data or systems. Malicious Emails Spam email can be annoying and require time and effort to manage; however, they typically don't present a significant security risk. Malicious emails, on the other hand, present a profound security risk and cost organizations and individuals billions of dollars each year. Cyber-criminals use a variety of tactics in malicious emails, including: Attachments or links that download and install malicious code to compromise systems. Links to fraudulent websites that gather personal information, such as username and passwords. Scams that fool the recipient into sending money or other items of value. Ransom messages that extort the recipient to provide money or take other actions. What is Phishing? Phishing refers to malicious emails that try to trick you into giving out confidential personal information (e.g., credit card and bank account numbers, Social Security number, passwords, etc.) by impersonating a legitimate organization, offering a chance to win a prize if you register, etc. Phishing messages may appear to be from organizations you do business with (e.g., banks, software companies, healthcare, etc.) or work for. They might threaten to close your account or take other action if you don’t respond. Legitimate organizations, including KU, will never ask you to provide a password or full Social Security Number in an email or in an unsolicited phone call. Phishing Examples Click to expand Criminals are thinking up new phishing attacks all the time. These are just a few examples of common phishing messages: "We suspect an unauthorized transaction on your account. To ensure that your account is not compromised, please click the link below and confirm your identity." “Our records indicate that your account was overcharged. You must call us within 7 days to receive your refund.” “You have won a free $500 Walmart gift card. Click here to collect your card." “Test the new iPad and keep it when you’re finished. Just use the iPad and tell us what you think. Call us to become part of this exclusive test.” Report Suspicious Emails Use the "Report Message" button in Outlook or forward suspicious messages to abuse@ku.edu. How to Protect Yourself Here are some strategies to protect yourself and KU from phishing and social engineering attacks: Don't open unsolicited or suspicious email attachments Don't follow any instructions or requests unless you are sure of the sender Learn to Spot Phishing/Social Engineering: Look for misspelled words Check to see if the email address matches the sender Check to see if the URL in links matches the sender Think twice before clicking on links in emails. Verify the destination of links by hovering over the link and looking at the URL in the pop-up. Remember, legitimate organizations, including KU, will never ask you to provide confidential personal information (password, Social Security Number, etc.) in an email or in an unsolicited phone call. Unless you initiated the request, assume an email or phone call asking for confidential personal information is a phishing attempt. When in doubt, call the organization directly to verify legitimacy of the request. Oops, I think I was Tricked! If you think you've been tricked into divulging confidential information, don't panic. Phishing attacks want you to panic and act without thinking. If the message came to your KU email account: Immediately contact the KU IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080. If the suspicious message came to your personal account: Immediately change passwords for any accounts that may have been compromised. Immediately contact the organization related to the confidential information you may have divulged (i.e., your bank, credit card company, etc.). Review your accounts for any unauthorized activity. Contact the organization that was being impersonated directly to inform them of the attack and regain control of your account. Enable two-factor authentication on your accounts that provide it. Report the fraud to the Federal Trade Commission. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.