Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Information for Retirees The information below generally applies to retirees after they leave the university. Emeritus and other retirees who maintain a campus presence may be eligible for additional services, including access to select systems and full technology support through the Technology Support Centers. Email The University of Kansas provides retired and emeritus faculty and staff members with continued access to their email account. Faculty and staff members who are retiring must follow the appropriate retirement notification process. Staff members who leave the university without following the retirement notification process will lose access to their email on their last day of employment with the university. Faculty members who leave the university without following the retirement notification process will lose access to their email 210 days after leaving the university. More About Email Microsoft Office KU licensing for Microsoft Office 365 ends when an individual leaves the university, including retirees. Options available directly from Microsoft include: Annual Office 365 subscription One-time purchase of Office Home & Student Note: You will need to migrate your personal files from KU OneDrive for Business to your personal OneDrive manually. If you have questions or need assistance, contact KU IT Customer Service Center at itcsc@ku.edu or 785-864-8080. Visit Microsoft Campus Wi-Fi KU IT provides secure JAYHAWK and eduroam wireless service for employees and students on campus. The KUGuest wireless service is for campus visitors. You can connect to KU Wi-Fi networks indoors and in many outdoor spaces by selecting the JAYHAWK or eduroam network from the wireless list on your computer or mobile device. More About Wi-Fi Technology Help KU IT provides limited technology support to KU retirees, through in-person, phone, email or online chat. Retirees can contact the IT Customer Service Center for support at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu, or use the chat function on this website. The IT Customer Service Center is available after business hours and on weekends. More About Tech Help Printing Retirees can print, copy and scan using multifunction devices (MFDs) in computer labs and KU Libraries locations across the Lawrence and Edwards campuses. Using campus MFDs requires log in with your KU Online ID and password. Scanning is free, and scanned documents can be saved to a thumb drive or sent to your KU email address. Printing and copying costs are $0.08 per page for black and white and $0.48 for color. More About Printing Additional Information Technology Support Email Accounts Campus Wi-Fi Print, Copy & Scan Email and Accounts After Leaving KU Unclassified Professional Staff (UPS) and University Support Staff (USS) lose access to email and most other technology systems and services on their last day with the university. Faculty lose access 210 days after they leave the university. However, accounts may be disabled immediately at the discretion of the university. More information is available on the Leaving KU page. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.