Skip to Main Content Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio In our first-of-its-kind, immersive Studio curriculum, all master's students will build solutions for industry partners and develop skills in end-to-end product development and entrepreneurship. Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Find out what it’s like to study, work, and live on one of the most advanced campuses in the world. Learn More Buildings Discover how our award-winning campus helps you think better and work smarter. Plan your event Explore our high-tech venues for your next NYC event. Tour Campus Walk our campus from wherever you are in the world. Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More Visit Search for: Visit Search for: Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Buildings Plan your event Tour Campus Jacobs Institute Learn More CONNECT WITH US 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 Tata Innovation Center Home / Campus / Buildings / Tata Innovation Center Campus Buildings Verizon Executive Education Center Tata Innovation Center Emma and Georgina Bloomberg Center The House Graduate Roosevelt Island Hotel Plan Your Event Submit An Inquiry Policies and Procedures Insurance, Confirmation, Deposits, Payments, and Cancellations Reservations and Event Categories Pre Event and Day of Event Logistics Build. Test. Critique. Repeat. The Tata Innovation Center is a first-of-its-kind building that houses a mix of companies and Cornell Tech academic teams. One third of the building is academic, laboratory, and research space and the other two thirds house corporate offices for tech companies, startups, and venture capitalists. From graduate students building products in Studio, to faculty prototyping new tech in labs, to established companies leveraging Cornell R&D, the Tata Innovation Center is where academia and industry collide. An Ecosystem of Innovation As the only building in New York City designed and built to leverage the resources of a leading research university, the Tata Innovation Center is an ecosystem that provides tech companies with a direct pipeline to Cornell University talent. Opportunities abound to ideate with our students and faculty — as do creative spaces where R&D and innovation teams can commercialize new products and technologies. View Available Space TCS & Cornell Tech Inaugurate the Tata Innovation Center Hear from Former Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Cornell University President Martha Pollack about why the Tata Center broke new ground in 2017. Current Tenants A range of tech and investment firms lease space in the Tata Center for their innovation divisions, R&D teams, and start-up ventures, including: Ferrero International S.A. NYC FIRST Sapienza Tata Consultancy Services Two Sigma Research at Cornell Tech From fully-equipped robotics and fabrication labs to initiatives advancing AI or shaping global policy on privacy, the Cornell Tech labs and initiatives at the Tata Center prove what’s possible when world-renowned researchers can experiment freely. View Research Student Life at the Tata Center Our master’s students spend significant time at the Tata Center, attending Studio courses, participating in hackathons and demo days, and working on new products in the MakerLAB. Some of the most distinctive parts of a Cornell Tech education happen here: building tech solutions, collaborating with companies on challenges, and launching new projects with real-time industry input. BigCo Studio: Innovating in Large Companies Learn about the Studio program for Cornell Tech master’s students, housed in the Tata Innovation Center. View our Studio Program Award-Winning Architecture Designed by world-renowned Weiss/Manfredi Architecture, the Tata Innovation Center features an iconic central Tech Gallery with multi-level lounges and collaboration spaces. The building’s flexible space is designed to adapt as education models evolve. And the accessible rooftop, sheltered by a photovoltaic canopy, provides a gathering point for the building’s tenants and the Cornell Tech community. Sustainability The Tata Innovation Center is built to LEED Silver sustainability standards and serves as an iconic symbol of Cornell’s commitment to conserving natural resources. Learn More About About Career Management Jobs News Discover Built at Cornell Tech Community Engagement Contact Diversity & Inclusion Giving The Café Resources Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Safety & Security Connect with us Stay in the loop on all things Cornell Tech Email Address Subscribe 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 'Follow on instagram 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 © 2020 Cornell Tech. All right reserved.