Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security Protecting KU Data At KU, security is a shared responsibility. During the course of your day at KU, you access many types of information, some of it sensitive and/or confidential. To maintain privacy and data security at KU, you are required to properly handle data and information. Your responsibilities include: Understanding what type of data is sensitive. Following proper handling procedures to maintain privacy. Keeping physical areas secure. Protecting mobile devices that are easily lost or stolen. Data Classification Levels The KU Data Classification and Handling policy details three levels of data and the security protections required for the handling of data at each level. All KU employees are responsible for classifying and handling data according to the policy. Below is an excerpt from the policy describing three data classification levels. Please read the full policy in the KU Policy Library. Level I – Confidential Information Protection Click to expand STOP! SPECIAL CARE IS REQUIRED! High risk of significant financial loss, legal liability, public distrust or harm if this data is disclosed. Examples of Level I Data: Data protected by HIPAA (health information). Data protected by FERPA: Student information including grades, exams, rosters, official correspondence, financial aid, scholarship records, etc. Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Individually identifiable information created and collected by research projects. Data subject to other federal or state confidentiality laws. Personnel data. Level II – Sensitive Information Protection Click to expand BE VERY CAUTIOUS! Moderate requirement for confidentiality and/or moderate or limited risk of financial loss, legal liability, public distrust or harm if this data is disclosed. Level III – Public Information Protection Click to expand PROCEED WITH AWARENESS Low requirement for confidentiality (information is public) and/or low or insignificant risk of financial loss, legal liability, public distrust or harm if this data is disclosed. Data Handling Resources Data Classification and Handling Policy Data Classification and Handling Procedures Guide Student Records Policy Proper Handling of Sensitive Data Help maintain privacy by doing the following: Adopt a clean desk and clear screen policy Lock your screen when you step away from your desk Set your the timeout for your screen at 10 minutes or less Don't retain un-needed data (electronic or paper) Destroy sensitive data in the proper way: Old computers, hard drives, mobile devices, etc. should be sent to eWaste Recycling Paper documents should be securely shredded. Contact KU Procurement Services for more information about secure shred bins. If You Find Improperly Stored Data Immediately contact the KU IT Security Office at itsec@ku.edu or 785-864-9003. What Constitutes a Security Breach? "Security breach" is the unauthorized access to a system, device, application or data by circumventing security policies, practices, procedures or mechanisms. Read the State of Kansas statute. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.