Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Information for Staff Email The University of Kansas provides staff members with email accounts throughout their employment with the university. A KU email account is automatically created when you set up a new KU Online ID. Your KU email account is the primary communications channel for official university announcements and information, as well as a key connection with students and colleagues. Staff members lose access immediately upon leaving the university. For this reason, we recommend using a more permanent personal email account for non-KU related purposes. We encourage you to review the Electronic Mail Policy to help guide your use of KU email. More About Email Wi-Fi KU IT provides secure JAYHAWK and eduroam wireless service for employees and students on campus. The KUGuest wireless service is for campus visitors. You can connect to KU Wi-Fi networks indoors and in many outdoor spaces by selecting the JAYHAWK or eduroam network from the wireless list on your computer or mobile device. More About Wi-Fi Technology Help KU IT provides a diverse range of technology support to KU staff, through in-person, phone, email or online chat. Primary tech support for most hardware and software issues is through the Technology Support Centers. TSC staff can provide remote support by phone or email, as well as online chat or video call using Skype or Teams. When needed, they will also come to your work location to help in person. Staff and faculty also can contact the IT Customer Service Center for support at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu, or use the chat function on this website. The IT Customer Service Center is available after business hours and on weekends. More About Tech Help Printing Most departments/units have one or more multifunction devices (MFDs) in work areas for staff and faculty printing, copying and scanning needs. Staff can print, copy and scan using multifunction devices (MFDs) in computer labs and KU Libraries locations across the Lawrence and Edwards campuses. Using campus MFDs requires log in with your KU Online ID and password. Scanning is free, and scanned documents can be saved to a thumb drive or sent to your KU email address. Printing and copying costs are $0.08 per page for black and white and $0.48 for color. More About Printing Connecting When Off Campus When working remotely or traveling, KU staff and faculty must use the KU Anywhere virtual private network (VPN) to securely access some campus systems and resources, such as shared file storage. You do not need to use KU Anywhere if you are on the KU campus, only when you want to access KU technology resources from off campus. Duo multi-factor authentication is required when using KU Anywhere. Canvas/Blackboard KU is in the process of transitioning to Canvas from Blackboard for our campus learning management system. The transition began in January 2021 and is expected to be complete in December 2022. The long transition period was necessary due to the additional workload for instructors during the pandemic. Faculty and academic staff can request help with migrating courses from Blackboard to Canvas by contacting the Center for Online and Distance Learning (CODL) at codl@ku.edu or 785-864-1000, or KU IT Educational Technologists at itedtech@ku.edu or 785-864-2600. KU provides Canvas support resources and Blackboard resources to help faculty and staff become familiar with and use these academic systems. Canvas Resources Blackboard Resources Additional Information Technology Support Email Accounts Campus Wi-Fi Print, Copy & Scan Canvas Blackboard Email and Accounts After Leaving KU Unclassified Professional Staff (UPS) and University Support Staff (USS) lose access to email and most other technology systems and services on their last day with the university. More information is available on the Leaving KU page. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.