Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Information for Students Email The University of Kansas provides students with email accounts throughout their academic career. A KU email account is automatically created when you set up a new KU Online ID. Your KU email account is the primary communications channel for official university announcements and information, as well as a key connection with your instructors. Students lose access to their KU email 210 days after leaving the university. For this reason, we recommend using a more permanent personal email account for non-KU related purposes. We encourage you to review the Electronic Mail Policy to help guide your use of KU email. More About Email Wi-Fi KU IT provides secure JAYHAWK and eduroam wireless service for students and employees. The KUGuest wireless service is for campus visitors. You can connect to KU Wi-Fi networks indoors and in many outdoor spaces by selecting the JAYHAWK or eduroam network from the wireless list on your computer or mobile device. More About Wi-Fi Technology Help KU IT Customer Service Center provides a diverse range of technology support to KU students by phone, email or online chat. We fix common technology problems, answer questions and provide referrals to additional help when needed. Help is available by contacting the IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu, or use the chat function on this website. More About Tech Help Printing Students can print, copy and scan using multifunction devices (MFDs) in computer labs and KU Libraries locations across the Lawrence and Edwards campuses. Using campus MFDs requires log in with your KU Online ID and password. Scanning is free, and scanned documents can be saved to a thumb drive or sent to your KU email address. Printing and copying costs are $0.08 per page for black and white and $0.48 for color. Currently enrolled students at KU are provided $8 worth of free printing during the spring and fall semesters, and $4 during the summer semester. More About Printing Canvas/Blackboard KU is in the process of transitioning to Canvas from Blackboard for our campus learning management system. The transition is expected to be complete in December 2022. Until then, students may have some classes that use Canvas while other classes use Blackboard. We recognize the inconvenience this presents for students as instructors migrate their courses to Canvas. A long transition period was necessary due to the additional workload for instructors during the pandemic. KU provides Canvas support resources and Blackboard resources to help students become familiar with and use these academic systems. Canvas Resources Blackboard Resources Additional Information Technology Support Email Accounts Campus Wi-Fi Print, Copy & Scan Canvas Blackboard Email and Accounts After Leaving KU Students lose access to email and most other technology systems and services 210 days after they leave the university. However, accounts may be disabled immediately at the discretion of the university. In most cases, email notices are sent 60 days, 30 days and 7 days before accounts are deleted. More information is available on the Leaving KU page. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.