Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Our DEIB Mission: We recognize the implicit value and inherent worth of all people we work with and serve. We work to cultivate an environment of mutual respect, learning, and open communication, and are committed to creating a more inclusive and equitable KU IT organization that celebrates diversity. About Our DEIB Efforts Our mission is aligned with KU's Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging. Our DEIB Advisory Group to the Chief Information Officer (CIO) recommends and advocates for education and practices that provide equitable opportunities for people of all identities and backgrounds to achieve their academic and professional goals. CIO Mary Walsh has signed the EDUCAUSE CIO’s Commitment on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion statement. DEIB Advisory Group Goals Increase awareness of and support for the importance of diversity within KU IT. Recommend and advocate for adoption of strategies to create a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Participate in community outreach to foster diversity within KU IT and the IT industry through collaborative relationships with community members. Technology Initiatives We have worked with campus partners on several initiatives to promote and support diversity on campus, including making it possible for students to have their preferred name in KU systems and on class rosters. We also have improved the accessibility of course materials in our learning management systems and content on KU websites with the introduction in 2021 of the Ally solution. Accessibility Accessibility for all people is an important component of our diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging efforts at KU. Ally is just one tool content providers can use to help make content more accessible. The Accessible KU website provides support and information to help meet our accessibility goals, including guidance for content providers to help ensure all content is accessible. Learn More About Diversity at KU Our diversity and inclusion efforts align with the university's commitment and campus initiatives being led by the Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging. DEIB Website DEIB Website Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.