Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Working Off Campus Accessing Campus Systems Internet Services In most cases, KU faculty and staff are responsible for their own internet access when working off campus, whether from home or another remote location. In some cases, an employee's department may provide a mobile hotspot or approve a salary supplement to offset the personal expense of establishing a data plan. Review the Mobile Communications & Information Devices policy. When Traveling: KU faculty and staff can log in to eduroam wireless networks using their KU Online ID and password at participating institutions. Bandwidth Your internet plan for supporting off-campus work should run at a minimum of 5 mbps download and 1 mbps upload. The recommended speed is at least 15 mbps download and 5 mbps upload to prevent common bandwidth-related issues. Follow these basic tips to conserve bandwidth: Close unneeded applications on your computer. There are often apps running in the background, and many are connected to the internet. Use a wired connection if you can. It will be more reliable and possibly faster. If not using a wired connection, do your work as close to your wireless router as possible. Turn off your video unless you absolutely need it. Disable high-definition (HD) webcam vide, because it requires much more bandwidth. Before your Zoom, Skype or other video call, ask those who share your internet service to temporarily limit their use. (Streaming services and gaming demand a lot of bandwidth.) If using a computer or tablet, turn off your phone’s Wi-Fi. Phones can draw bandwidth even when not actively in use. Disconnect any smart appliances and devices. The bandwidth gain will be small but potentially noticeable. Beyond what you can directly control, consider your local internet service provider. Many have advanced tools for managing the devices that connect to your home network. Their customer support pages often will have more information. IMPORTANT: Make sure your home Wi-Fi network is password protected and you have changed the default admin password that came with the device. Connecting to Systems You can log in to some campus systems, such as HR/Pay and Enroll & Pay, from any device, anywhere you have an internet connection. To access some systems, including Central File Storage (typically, your G:drive) you will need to use the KU Anywhere VPN. KU Anywhere VPN (Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobility Software) is installed on all KU-managed computers. For your personal computer, you can download and install the KU VPN software by going to technology.ku.edu/software/kuanywhere#access. We recommend that you only connect to VPN when needed to access select systems, and disconnect after use. You must use Duo multi-factor authentication when connecting to the KU Anywhere VPN. (Note:For the secondary password, enter the six-digit Duo code using the Duo app or enter the word, push, to receive a push to your device.) Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.