Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Technology Ventures Search AllTechnologiesGeneral Information For Inventors Submit an Invention Report Develop Your Innovation Start a Company SBIR / STTR Awards IP and Entrepreneurship Language for Grant Applications Columbia Lab-to-Market Accelerator Network Request a Material Transfer or Confidentiality Agreement Review Inventor Policies Executives In Residence Funding Opportunities Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources For Industry Search Available Technologies Software Express Licenses Select Emerging Startups Collaborate With Columbia Researchers Start the Licensing Process Columbia Startup Fellows Search Available Technologies All Available Technologies COVID-19 Projects at Columbia Lab-to-Market About CTV Technology Transfer at Columbia CTV Fellows Program Meet Our Team Careers Forms Invention Report Form Material Transfer Agreement Forms CDA/NDA Request Form Sponsored Research Agreement Faculty Handbook IP Policy News and Events News Events Subscribe Media Videos Podcast You are here Home Main Section For Inventors Submit an Invention Report Submit an Invention Report Protecting your innovation starts by filing an Invention Report. This provides CTV with basic information about the invention, helps us assess the patentability and commercial potential, and supports the patent filing decision. Once your intellectual property has been protected, your CTV Technology Licensing Officer can begin working with you to commercialize your invention via an industry license, a start-up company, or other means. Download the Invention Report Form here Once completed, submit the form to [email protected]. Why Submit an Invention Report? An Invention Report provides CTV with basic information about the invention, helps us assess the patentability and commercial potential, and supports the patent filing decision. Once your intellectual property has been protected, your CTV Technology Licensing Officer can begin working with you to commercialize your invention via an industry license, a start-up company, or other means. What Happens Next? Within 45 days, you will see an Initial Commercial Assessment on your technology, and begin to discuss the marketing and patenting process with your licensing officer. You can check the status of your invention report submission and patent application(s) by logging into the Faculty Portal with your Columbia UNI (use any browser except for Internet Explorer). Submit Invention Reports Early and Often We strongly encourage inventors to submit an Invention Report before any public disclosures (lecture, posters, presentations, etc.) that may adversely affect the patentability of an invention. However, even if you have already disclosed your idea, it is still possible to receive protection, so we’d still like to hear from you. If you have any questions about this process, please contact a CTV Technology Licensing Officer, or email [email protected]. Recent Video Patents, Licenses, and Science-based Startups: Tech Transfer at Columbia and Beyond Sable Therapeutics The Roles of Founding Academic Scientists in Startups Corning Advanced Materials Prize: Founders Panel Discussion Medical Rehabilitative Robotics Recent Posts U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo Reestablishes the National Advisory Council on Innovation & Entrepreneurship (NACIE) DEI Initiatives in Tech Commercialization and Entrepreneurship at Academic Institutions Valo Health Acquires TARA Biosystems Creating First of its Kind Vertically Integrated Cardiovascular Platform Terran Biosciences announces licensing deal with Columbia University for exclusive worldwide rights to proprietary CNS biomarker software platform ProJenX launches to advance novel, targeted therapies for ALS and other brain diseases High Performing Algorithm to Translate Paralyzed Patients' Thoughts into Real-time Prosthetic Movements. Columbia program takes in non-university ventures to boost impact, grow ecosystem Edifecs Enters Into Definitive Agreement to Acquire Health Fidelity Morningside 80 Claremont Ave. 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 212-854-8444 Directions Medical Center 51 Audubon Ave. 2nd Floor New York, NY 10032 212-305-5198 Directions Columbia Universityin the city of new york Contact Site Map Terms http://techventures.columbia.edu [email protected]