Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Technology Ventures Search AllTechnologiesGeneral Information For Inventors Submit an Invention Report Develop Your Innovation Start a Company SBIR / STTR Awards IP and Entrepreneurship Language for Grant Applications Columbia Lab-to-Market Accelerator Network Request a Material Transfer or Confidentiality Agreement Review Inventor Policies Executives In Residence Funding Opportunities Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources For Industry Search Available Technologies Software Express Licenses Select Emerging Startups Collaborate With Columbia Researchers Start the Licensing Process Columbia Startup Fellows Search Available Technologies All Available Technologies COVID-19 Projects at Columbia Lab-to-Market About CTV Technology Transfer at Columbia CTV Fellows Program Meet Our Team Careers Forms Invention Report Form Material Transfer Agreement Forms CDA/NDA Request Form Sponsored Research Agreement Faculty Handbook IP Policy News and Events News Events Subscribe Media Videos Podcast You are here Home Main Section For Inventors Start a Company Start a Company CTV is involved in the launch of 20+ patent-based startups each year, and offers advantageous terms for university startups. If you are a faculty member thinking of a startup, you are invited to work with your CTV Technology Licensing Officer, or email [email protected] for more information. We look forward to working with you. For Columbia startups in development, we offer the resources below. An additional comprehensive list of on-campus resources available to startups is provided by Columbia Entrepreneurship. CTV Executives in Residence (XIRs) CTV’s Executive in Residence (XIR) Program aims to connect Columbia inventors and technologies with seasoned industry executives, venture capitalists, and serial entrepreneurs. By doing so, we hope to leverage the deep domain expertise of these individuals to help accelerate the path of these promising technologies towards market success. XIRs are encouraged to develop close ties with our inventors, entrepreneurs, and technology transfer team in order to help Columbia further develop these technologies. Startup Attorneys CTV is occasionally asked by technology entrepreneurs for the names of attorneys who are able to represent Columbia startup companies during their formative stages, and in particular during the licensing discussions with CTV. While Columbia does not recommend any particular firm nor require the use of any of these firms, listed below are some firms that represent that they: Have an entrepreneurship practice able to fulfill the needs of most startup companies (i.e., formation as a Delaware corporation; bylaws; issuance of founder’s stock; creation of equity incentive plan and initial option grant; related securities laws filings; standard forms for consulting, advisory board agreements, proprietary information, assignment of inventions; set-up of minute book and stock ledger; coordination with patent counsel; experience negotiating license agreements for early-stage IP); Have attorneys with experience in both physical sciences and health sciences; and Offer a fixed fee or deferred fee deal for Columbia startup companies, in order to help companies manage their cash burn (please be sure to mention CTV in your outreach) The list below provides the contact information for the lead partner(s) at each firm. Goodwin Procter (Stephen Davis and Kingsley Taft) Wilson Sonsini Goodrich and Rosati (Craig Kenesky) Mintz Levin (Dan DeWolf) Morgan Lewis (Andrew Hamilton and Jay Carrigan) Fenwick & West (Evan Bienstock) Orrick (Stephen Thau, Scott Iyama, Shana Solomon, and Daniel Forester) Startup Insurance Brokers The firms below are familiar both with the types of policies that most startups need as part of their ongoing business, and also the insurance requirements mandated by university patent license agreements. They can provide a quote for the level of insurance required. Odell Studner (Sales Rep: Wayne Crowther, [email protected]) Exude, Inc. Startup Immigration Lawyers Wiggin and Dana (Contact: Najia Khalid) Alexandria LaunchLabs @ Columbia Alexandria LaunchLabs is coming to campus and looking for exciting new companies to join them! In early 2021, Alexandria Real Estate Equities will be opening its newest LaunchLabs site on the 6th floor of the Lasker BioMedical Research Building near the Columbia University Irving Medical Center to support and accelerate the growth of early-stage life science companies affiliated with Columbia University as well as other early-stage companies wishing to co-locate near Columbia. Alexandria LaunchLabs provides move-in-ready office and laboratory space, first-class support resources, shared equipment and services, creative amenities, engagement with Alexandria’s world-class network, and access to startup capital through the Alexandria Seed Capital Platform. Learn more about the Alexandria LaunchLabs platform here. Applications are now open and can be submitted here. External Accelerator Programs Endless Frontier Labs is a nine-month program focused on maximizing the potential of massively-scalable, science and deep technology startups. ELabNYC teaches business skills and networks participants to start up resources. dlab was founded in 2018 to provide capital and resources to startups who are making an impact in blockchain and other technologies promoting decentralization. Their New York-based program is a collaborative venture between SOSV, The Accelerator VC, and EMURGO, the commercial venture builder for the Cardano ecosystem. dlab's team is made up of investors, product builders, and technology experts from both organizations. Entrepreneurs Roundtable Accelerator (ERA) combines seed capital, hands-on help and a great co-working location with an expert team to positively impact the trajectory of early-stage startups. ERA runs two, four-month programs per year. Techstars NYC helps entrepreneurs grow their businesses and expand their networks with access to founders, investors, mentors, and industry leaders. Y Combinator provides seed funding for startups. Seed funding is the earliest stage of venture funding. It pays your expenses while you’re getting started. CTV support for SBIR/STTR applications Recent Video Patents, Licenses, and Science-based Startups: Tech Transfer at Columbia and Beyond Sable Therapeutics The Roles of Founding Academic Scientists in Startups Corning Advanced Materials Prize: Founders Panel Discussion Medical Rehabilitative Robotics Recent Posts U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo Reestablishes the National Advisory Council on Innovation & Entrepreneurship (NACIE) DEI Initiatives in Tech Commercialization and Entrepreneurship at Academic Institutions Valo Health Acquires TARA Biosystems Creating First of its Kind Vertically Integrated Cardiovascular Platform Terran Biosciences announces licensing deal with Columbia University for exclusive worldwide rights to proprietary CNS biomarker software platform ProJenX launches to advance novel, targeted therapies for ALS and other brain diseases High Performing Algorithm to Translate Paralyzed Patients' Thoughts into Real-time Prosthetic Movements. Columbia program takes in non-university ventures to boost impact, grow ecosystem Edifecs Enters Into Definitive Agreement to Acquire Health Fidelity Morningside 80 Claremont Ave. 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 212-854-8444 Directions Medical Center 51 Audubon Ave. 2nd Floor New York, NY 10032 212-305-5198 Directions Columbia Universityin the city of new york Contact Site Map Terms http://techventures.columbia.edu [email protected]