Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Software & Services KU Information Technology works with campus partners to provide access to the software, services and systems that students, faculty and staff need to successfully achieve their academic, research and work goals. Our focus is on making these resources available as widely as possible within the campus community, while balancing licensing and other costs associated with campuswide availability. In some cases, access to specific software applications and services is limited to groups that have a defined need. KU IT leverages the university's purchasing power to make some software and services available to students, faculty and staff for both work and personal use. Microsoft Office 365 and Adobe Creative Cloud are examples. All current students, faculty and staff can download Office 365 applications (e.g., Word, Excel, etc.) to personal devices, and all faculty and staff can download Adobe Creative Cloud applications (e.g., Photoshop) for home use. KU IT also partners with some vendors so that smaller Kansas Board of Regent's universities can purchase software and services at KU's discounted rate. Access to Software Students faculty and staff can access software in several ways, including in campus computer labs, through Windows Virtual Desktop and direct download from the KU Software Webstore. Campus Computer Labs Campus computer labs located in KU Libraries and in some academic buildings provide access to both general software and software applications specific to the school or department where the computer lab is located. Some computer labs in academic buildings may be restricted to use by students of that school. Virtual Lab Virtual Lab uses Microsoft's Windows Virtual Desktop to make select software available online from anywhere there is an internet connection. In addition, Virtual Lab makes software applications available and convenient on mobile devices. Access to specific applications in Virtual Lab will vary depending on eligibility as a student, faculty or staff. Not all software applications are available to all KU groups. KU Software Webstore KU students, faculty and staff can download free and discounted software through the KU Software Web Store. Log in to see what software is available based on eligibility. Faculty & Staff Workstations KU-managed workstations for faculty and staff should have all necessary software installed. Faculty and staff members who need specialized software should work with their departmental IT Support Staff to install the needed application. Software & Services Catalog Search the Software & Services catalog or browse by category to find software and services available to students, faculty, staff and visitors at the University of Kansas. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.