Skip to Main Content Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio In our first-of-its-kind, immersive Studio curriculum, all master's students will build solutions for industry partners and develop skills in end-to-end product development and entrepreneurship. Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Find out what it’s like to study, work, and live on one of the most advanced campuses in the world. Learn More Buildings Discover how our award-winning campus helps you think better and work smarter. Plan your event Explore our high-tech venues for your next NYC event. Tour Campus Walk our campus from wherever you are in the world. Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More Visit Search for: Visit Search for: Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Buildings Plan your event Tour Campus Jacobs Institute Learn More CONNECT WITH US 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 PiTech Studio Home / Studio / Studio Curriculum / PiTech Studio Studio Studio Curriculum Product Studio Submit a Challenge Example Challenges Startup Studio BigCo Studio Become a BigCo Partner PiTech Studio Conversations in the Studio Product Management Startup Ideas Studio Faculty & Practitioners Real World Access Culture Public Interest Tech is an emerging scholarly and professional field that is broad in scope and intention. It is defined by the deployment of technological expertise in service of the common good, often with a focus on under-resourced communities and needs. This course will explore the roles that technology and design can play in the advancement of the public good – as well as the threats technology can pose to various aspects of civil society. In doing so, this course will challenge you to reflect on the concept of value creation, specifically the growing intersection of economic, social, and environmental value in the context of an interconnected and interdependent global society. Ultimately, you will learn how to identify and refine a good public interest technology product idea, pitch it to funders, and bring it to market. The objective of this course is twofold: Introduce you to the growing and increasingly important role of technology in social change work (specifically both as a lever for good and as a destructive force) Provide you with concrete tools and insight for launching and scaling technology-driven products, services, and organizations. You will survey a breadth of innovations that represent an exciting new toolkit for creating and scaling social value including social entrepreneurship, impact investing, venture philanthropy, and public-private partnerships. SEMESTER: SPRING CREDITS: 3.00 TAUGHT BY: Lyel Resner About This Course In PiTech Studio you will develop your own new product or startup idea with a cross-sector lens that is in service of the common good, often with a focus on under-resourced communities and needs. How It Works Develop your vision. In the Product Studio course, you and your classmates will have developed, evaluated, and refined thousands of startup ideas. You will choose one of those ideas to pursue in PiTech Studio. Assemble your team. You and your classmates will find peers with complementary skill sets and shared passions and self-organize into teams. Create your startup. Once your idea is chosen and your team is assembled, you’ll dive into the process of creating a startup: refining your idea and developing a pitch deck and prototype that you will test with users and present to members of New York City’s vibrant tech community. Gain industry insights as you build. As your team develops its idea in the Studio, you’ll also participate in weekly lectures and fireside chats. You will learn how to create social value and measure impact, as well as the many ways public interest technologists get involved in projects that serve their communities. Work smarter. To accelerate your business development progress, you’ll participate in Crit and Studio Maker Days with active entrepreneurs, product owners and technical managers. They will provide practical feedback and instruction, encourage your weekly progress, and help address any challenges your team is facing. Take it with you. The primary goal of PiTech Studio is to provide you with skills and experience that you can apply to the rest of your degree and new ventures after graduation, giving you professional experience to guide technology towards positive societal outcomes. Studio Curriculum Return to Curriculum Real World Access Learn More Intellectual Property at Cornell Tech View the CSP Culture Learn More Related Stories News Category MBA News Category Computer Science Cornell Tech Students Work To Make Spotify More Social Read the story about Cornell Tech Students Work To Make Spotify More Social News Category Studio News Category News How enroute Helps Patients and Doctors Navigate Hospitals’ Crowded Halls Read the story about How enroute Helps Patients and Doctors Navigate Hospitals’ Crowded Halls News Category Studio News Category News Cornell Tech Students Create an Innovative Mobile Web App for Squarespace Read the story about Cornell Tech Students Create an Innovative Mobile Web App for Squarespace News Category Studio News Category News Cornell Tech Startup Aims to Destigmatize STI Testing and Reimagine Sexual Well-being Read the story about Cornell Tech Startup Aims to Destigmatize STI Testing and Reimagine Sexual Well-being News Category Studio News Category News Students Collaborate with Zillow To Empower Home Buyers in BigCo Studio Read the story about Students Collaborate with Zillow To Empower Home Buyers in BigCo Studio News Category Video News Category Studio BigCo Studio: Learning How to Innovate in Large Companies Read the story about BigCo Studio: Learning How to Innovate in Large Companies About About Career Management Jobs News Discover Built at Cornell Tech Community Engagement Contact Diversity & Inclusion Giving The Café Resources Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Safety & Security Connect with us Stay in the loop on all things Cornell Tech Email Address Subscribe 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 'Follow on instagram 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 © 2020 Cornell Tech. All right reserved.