Skip to Content Office of Technology Transfer Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home AboutExpand Collapse section The Bayh-Dole Act Success StoriesExpand Collapse section Licensed SU Technologies Contact Us Office of Research Home IndustryExpand Collapse section Intellectual Property Available for Licensing IP & University-Industry Collaboration Invention Licensing & Commercialization For Start-ups Our Intellectual Property Portfolio InnovatorsExpand Collapse section Submit an Invention Statement Describing the Technology Transfer Process First-Time Faculty InventorsExpand Collapse section STEM Non-STEM Experiential Learning Professors Collaboration Entrepreneurs Returning Faculty InventorsExpand Collapse section Intellectual Property and Pursuing Externally Sponsored Research Material Transfer Agreements and Inter-institutional Agreements Graduate Students & Staff Royalty Income Distribution Policy Technology Transfer Educational Program CITI Resources and FormsExpand Collapse section Resources and Forms for Industry Search OTT Search Search Technology Transfer Advance Syracuse University research from laboratory to the commercial market where those inventions develop into products and services that benefit society. Quicklinks Close dialog Submit an Invention Disclosure Form Available Technologies – Flintbox Available Technologies – iBridge Portal Available Technologies – Seedsprint Startup Funding Virtual Program May 5, 2022 CNY Biotech Accelerator Hosting Startup Funding Program Link Wednesday, June 15, 2022 3:00 – 4:00 p.m. EDT Speaker: Richard E. Honen, Venture Capital & Technology Practice Team Lead, Phillips Lytle, LLP Mr. Honen will discuss the uses of multiple early stage funding vehicles and will cover the most important terms of venture capital term sheets and investments. Registration required to attend this free virtual meeting on Zoom. Click on the button below to register. Program sponsored by the CNY Biotech Accelerator and Upstate Medical University. Register to Attend NSF I-Corps Teams Q&A Webinar May 5, 2022 The NSF Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program provides experiential education on entrepreneurship, customer discovery and business start-up concerns for researchers invested in moving their innovations from lab to market. NSF program directors host a monthly webinar to answer questions and provide updated information about I-Corps contacts, the curriculum and important program and application dates. The next webinar is scheduled for: Thursday, June 2, 2022 12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Eastern Register to Attend Congratulations to Inventors – Recent Patents Issued April 19, 2022 The Office of Technology Transfer congratulates the researchers who have had patents issue in the past year. It is an accomplishment to see a patent ultimately issue from the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. We wish to thank the current and former Syracuse University researchers for their commitment and recognize their accomplishment. This list represents recently issued patents affiliated with research in the College of Arts & Sciences, the College of Engineering & Computer Science, and the School of Information Studies. Hierarchical Optimized Detection of Relatives Inventors: Jonathan Adelman, Michael Marciano – Patent Number: 11,309,062 Issue Date: April 14, 2022 Hybrid Additive-Subtractive Laser Fabrication Platform for Shaping Hydrogels Inventors: Pranav Soman, Puskal Kunwar, Zheng Xiong – Patent Number: 11,260,596 Issue Date: March 1, 2022 Peptide Drug Improvement Using Vitamin B12 and Haptocorrin Binding Substrate Conjugates Inventors: Robert Doyle – Patent Number: 11,207,415 Issue Date: December 28, 2021 Piezoelectric Sensors and Quartz Crystal Monitors Inventors: Fritz “Fred” Schlereth, James Spencer – Patent Number: 11,187,680 Issue Date: November 30, 2021 Metamaterial-Boosted Quantum Electromechanical Transducer for Microwave-Optical Interfacing Inventors: Britton Plourde, Matthew LaHaye – Patent Number: 11,163,209 Issue Date: November 2, 2021 Motion Sensor Assisted Room Shape Reconstruction and Self-Localization Using First-Order Acoustic Echoes Inventors: Biao Chen, Tiexing Wang, Fangrong Peng – Patent Number: 11,125,553 Issue Date: September 21, 2021 Compositions of Nanoparticles With Radial Gradients and Methods of Use Thereof Inventors: Mathew Maye – Patent Number: 11,103,923 Issue Date: August 31, 2021 Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Catalytic Converter Inventors: Jeongmin Ahn, Thomas Welles – Patent Number: 11,101,482 Issue Date: August 24, 2021 Synthesis of Superhydrophobic Microporous Surfaces Via Light-Directed Photopolymerization and Phase Separation Inventors: Ian D. Hosein – Patent Number: 11,022,888 Issue Date: June 1, 2021 System and Method for Automated Detection of Figure Element Reuse Inventors: Daniel Ernesto Acuna, Konrad Kording – Patent Number: 10,997,232 Issue Date: May 4, 2021 Please note: Patents and patent applications are added to Experts@Syracuse soon after they are made public. They are listed in the “Research Output” section. Much of the above listed intellectual property is available for licensing. Companies and non-for-profits interested in exploring commercial applications should contact the Syracuse University Office of Technology Transfer. Attention SU Researchers – Plan Early for Publications and Presentations December 7, 2021 Syracuse University researchers are encouraged to finalize invention disclosures as soon as possible, due to the lead time needed to analyze invention disclosures and pursue patent protection (if warranted). This is especially true for researchers that will present papers or posters at conferences in early 2022. To submit an invention disclosure go to the online invention disclosure portal. Article: Take Steps to Avoid Patent-Killing “Pre-Print” Disclosures May 7, 2020 In the ever-changing publishing environment, researchers need to disclose their patentable research to the Office of Technology Transfer, before sharing it with any publisher, to retain both US and foreign patent rights. This article authored by David Schwartz and published by Tech Transfer Central provides a few examples of instances where pre-print on-line disclosures by publishing companies extinguished patent protection: Take Steps to Avoid Patent-Killing “Pre-Print” Disclosures If you have an invention to disclose, please complete the on-line invention disclosure, or if you have any questions regarding your research and possible parent protection, please contact the Office of Technology Transfer. Technology Transfer Business Continuity Amid the COVID-19 Pandemic April 8, 2020 Technology Transfer Services Link All services provided by Technology Transfer will continue. Technology Transfer will communicate if additional time is required due to remote work arrangements of office staff and our partners (patent counsel, technology transfer and research staff at other universities, etc.). Meetings with researchers and corporate partners that would normally be held in-person will now be held via conference call or using virtual meeting platforms. Documents that require signatures will be circulated using Adobe Sign if possible. If Adobe Sign is not possible, signature instructions will be emailed to the signee. Technology Transfer will temporarily suspend the notary requirement on documents that require notarization. Link Additional Considerations Link It remains critical to provide Technology Transfer as much time as possible to evaluate and protect intellectual property prior to any publications or presentations (in-person or virtual). Researchers should evaluate their work for patentable inventions and report those inventions as soon as possible. Instructions and a link are available on the Submit an Invention Disclosure website. We recognize that publications relating to understanding, diagnosing, treating, or immunizing against COVID-19 are likely to be fast-tracked for public dissemination. Researchers active in this space are asked to identify themselves to Technology Transfer. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office deadlines are set by statute and are unlikely to change. At this time, Technology Transfer has not been notified of any deadline changes or extensions. The deadlines that have been communicated to you by Technology Transfer or patent counsel are in effect. We are monitoring communications from the U.S. Government and will update researchers if circumstances change. If you are unable to meet a deadline, contact our office as soon as possible to discuss options. How to Communicate with Technology Transfer Link Technology Transfer will continue to communicate with the university research enterprise (faculty, staff and students) and non-university partners (government, corporate and non-profit) through the following methods: E-mail; voicemail and return phone calls; scheduled conference call meetings; Microsoft Teams and Zoom Virtual Meetings. If you have a question or to arrange a virtual meeting or conference call, please contact us. For more information on the Syracuse University, Office of Research business continuity during the COVID-19 pandemic, click on the link to view the Office of Research Service Continuity Planning for COVID-19 page. Link 224-226 Lyman Hall | 315.443.5196 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy