Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home IT Security IT Security for Researchers Many KU researchers engage in research that involves the collection or use of identifiable private information. Federal law and KU policy provide specific guidance for protecting identifiable research information. Data Classification and Handling Policy Classification is necessary to understand which security practices should be used to protect different types of information. The more protected the information needs to be, the more practices are required. Please review the Data Classification and Handling Policy. Sensitive Research Data KU research may deal with sensitive information that does not directly relate personally identifiable information. Proprietary information subject to confidentiality requirements, information with national security implications and other types of information may require extra security precautions. Researchers are encouraged to consult with KU IT to determine the proper security measures needed for these types of data. Breach Notification Requirements Each research project should have a well-defined document detailing what to do in the case of a security breach. Obtaining/creating/retaining the breach notification requirements is the responsibility of the researcher. Principal Investigator (PI) Responsibility It is the responsibility of the PI to comply with information security. Each PI is encouraged to carefully examine their use agreements, grants and other contracts to see what data handling requirements are included. KU researchers under must, at a minimum, comply with the requirements included with their grants and contracts, as well as comply with the KU Data Classification and Handling Policy. PI’s are encouraged to meet with KU IT to discuss what is required of their research. Working with KU IT We provide a number of services to help protect the data and systems of the University and our customers: Consulting and assessments Training Firewall management Antivirus software Information resources Email encryption Please contact the IT Security Office at itsec@ku.edu to discuss the information security requirements of your research and how we can best assist you. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.