Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research Technology Research Technology Overview KU Information Technology and the Office of Research and KU Information Technology partner to meet the needs of KU researchers. The information on KU technology systems and services found here and in the Research Toolbox in the myKU portal is designed to help researchers answer questions and provide required information in grant proposals. Research Toolbox In addition to information on this website, KU IT provides the Research Toolbox for principal investigators and other researchers who need information about technology systems and resources to include in research grant proposals. In addition to technology resources, the Research Toolbox also provides information related to: Budget Development Compliance Compliance Training Financial Management Funding Resources Travel To access the Research Toolbox, visit the myKU Portal and select "Research" at the top of the page. Accounts There are two types of accounts that are available to research partners who are not KU employees: Affiliate Accounts Sponsored Temporary Accounts Affiliate Accounts Affiliates of the University of Kansas are individuals who are employed with entities that are not part of the KU community but require official KU standing to participate in, or work with, various campus units on a volunteer basis. These affiliates have an official HR designation and can receive services such as parking, library access, email accounts, and other services available to KU faculty/staff/students. Visit the Human Resource Management Affiliates page to see a complete list of Affiliates. In order to ensure that affiliates are appropriately registered, units must complete the Affiliate Data Sheet. Sponsored Temporary Account Sponsored Temporary Accounts (STA) carry no official HR designation. These accounts are intended to be temporary, short term, and sponsored by a full-time faculty/staff person in an academic/research department. These accounts allow individuals to more seamlessly interact with KU technology systems needed to provide assistance to KU Researchers, or provide temporary access to services when an official HR designation is not required or preferred. For details or to initiate the process go to the Sponsored Temporary Account page. Workstation Support The Research Technology Support Center (TSC) provides workstation support to researchers. The Technology Support Center (TSC) model was created to provide better service to our researchers, faculty and staff through a hybrid model that leverages the best of centralized and decentralized support models. The TSC hybrid model is based on: Centrally managed support teams that are located in close proximity to the customers they serve. A tiered structure that gives frontline support staff the ability to escalate particularly difficult service issues. Shared decision-making between unit leader and KU IT to meet customer needs. The Research TSC staff is generally available during standard business hours. The IT Customer Service Center provides after hours and weekend IT support at: 785-864-8080 itcsc@ku.edu Online chat Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.