Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research Technology Research Websites KU Information technology provides two web platform options for researchers and research groups, projects, units and departments: Content management system (CMS) Custom development Content Management System (CMS) KU's CMS is built on Drupal, an open source web development platform that allows site administrators without web development skills to create and maintain websites. KU's current version, called CMS Sunflower, provides page templates that make it relatively easy to create websites that are consistent with KU design standards and branding. CMS Sunflower is used for nearly all department and unit websites at the university. While creating and maintaining a CMS Sunflower websites is relatively simple after basic training sessions, and there is no cost, some researchers and groups may prefer to outsource the work. Whether you don't have the time to spend or you need a more complex website, KU IT offers CMS web development support billed at $60/hour. Contact Web Services for a price quote. Custom Development Research projects and websites are not required to be built on the KU CMS Sunflower platform. If you have a specific need for your website that isn't met by the CMS, we will work to accommodate your needs. The KU IT web development team can provide as much or as little support as you need in building and maintaining your research website. Our team has many years of web development experience using the latest programming languages, tools and platforms, including popular open-source tools such as Wordpress, Drupal and Joomla. Please contact us for a free estimate on time and cost for web development services. Support is available both for sites exclusive to KU, and for collaborative research websites. Get Started Visit the CMS site for more information on CMS Sunflower, or contact Web Services for a consultation. More About CMS More About CMS Request a CMS Site Request a CMS Site Email Web Services Email Web Services Web Hosting CMS Sunflower is both a design/development platform and hosting platform. KU IT also provides web hosting via cPanel. The Research Support Team, in consultation with KU IT Web Services, can advise you on whether CMS or cPanel will best meet your needs, or help find alternatives. For more information, including requesting a CMS or cPanel site, or securing a domain name, contact the Research Support Team. Comparison Web Hosting Options CMS cPanel Backend administration accessible only for users with KU Online ID Backend administration accessible by KU and external users Ready-to-go KU template for quick start Flexibility for custom design Design consistent with other KU websites Allows for custom applications Extensive training and support available through KU IT Non-KU design can be used for collaboration with external partners and projects Mobile-friendly design built into template Quick start options available using open-source solutions (e.g. Wordpress) Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.