Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Email Configure Email on Your Devices You can check your KU email online from anywhere in the world and on any internet-enabled device using Outlook Office 365. You also can connect your KU email account to your Windows PC, Mac or a mobile device. Desktop and Laptop Computers Microsoft Outlook is the recommended and supported desktop/laptop computer email client for KU email services for both Windows and Mac. Outlook is already installed on faculty and staff workstations.Students, faculty and staff can install Outlook on personal devices for free through Microsoft Office 365. Connecting on Windows: Make sure Microsoft Outlook is installed on your computer, then: Launch Outlook and select Get Started. Select Start Using Outlook. Enter your KU email address. Select Advanced options, and select Set up manually. Select Exchange as account type. When entering password, select More choices and Use a different account. Enter home\ followed by your KU Online ID (for example, home\a123b456) and your password. Follow the prompt to complete the setup. Connecting on Mac: You can connect your KU email to the Mail app on your Mac or with Outlook. Launch Microsoft Outlook. Enter your primary KU email address and click Continue. Fill in the following fields: Domain\Username: Enter home\ followed by your personal KU Online ID (for example, home\a123b456) Password: Your password Server: mail.ku.edu Follow the prompts to complete the setup. Additional instructions for configuring email are available in our Knowledge Base. Mobile Devices To configure your mobile device to access your KU email, use the device-specific instructions below. When configuring KU mail and calendar on a mobile device, you may get an ActiveSync pop-up message requesting approval for terms of service and access to certain device features. Please note: KU has not activated remote access to any security features on personal mobile devices owned by students, faculty or staff. You can read more about ActiveSync below. Configure on iOS Configure on Android Learn More About ActiveSync Click to expand KU's email service (Microsoft Exchange) uses ActiveSync to configure email and calendars on mobile devices. When configuring your mobile device to your KU email and calendar, you may receive a pop-up alert message* with the terms of service and features that could be managed remotely, if authorized. The alert message varies on different mobile devices and operating systems, and may include: Set password rules Lock the screen Erase all data Set storage encryption and more *Some mobile devices, notably Apple (iPhone, iPad), do not show a pop-up message. KU has not activated these settings for faculty, staff and student personal devices. The remote access controls mentioned are typically used where organizations provide mobile devices to their employees. To connect your KU email and calendar on your mobile device, you will need to accept the terms of service. What is ActiveSync? In Microsoft Exchange, ActiveSync is the protocol by which some applications connect to Exchange. It consists of software on the Exchange servers and client software on the user’s device. Most mobile devices have chosen this protocol to connect to Exchange to get email, calendars, contacts etc. If you have additional questions about ActiveSync or its use at KU, contact the IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.