Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About Sustainability KU Information Technology is committed to the conservation of natural resources to promote an environmentally and fiscally responsible KU. We encourage responsible consumption and we implement services, applications and processes to promote more sustainable practices. For example, ImageNow and Adobe Sign both support digital workflows to reduce the need for printing and circulating paper documents. And, by requiring log in to release documents printed on the MFDs, we have significantly decreased paper waste. As an organization, we responsibly manage old laptops, monitors and other equipment by reusing/repurposing or donating to non-profit organizations when appropriate. When equipment is obsolete and has no value to KU or non-profit organizations, we responsibly dispose of it through credible e-waste vendors. This keeps equipment and toxic materials out of landfills. We extend the e-waste service to all KU units, to ensure the proper disposal of equipment across the campus. Computer Power Management Power management involves changing the settings on your electronics so that they consume less energy. Some examples of ways to save energy are the following: Reduce your computer's idle time. Shut down instead of logging off. Unplug electronics when not in use. Additional Resources Low Carbon IT Campaign FAQs (EnergyStar) Select to follow link Activate Power Management on Your Computer (EnergyStar) Select to follow link 10 Things to Know About PC Power Management (Greenbiz) Select to follow link How to Adjust Power and Sleep Settings (Microsoft) Select to follow link Set sleep and wake settings for your Mac (Apple) Select to follow link How to Change Mac Power Settings: An Energy-Saving Guide (MacKeeper) Select to follow link eWaste Service KU IT’s eWaste service provides a way for KU departments to securely and responsibly recycle obsolete, unused or unwanted computers and other electronic equipment. KU IT completely removes all sensitive and proprietary university or customer information from computers and thumb drives before disposing of them in an environmentally safe manner. All KU campus departments should use this service to dispose of KU-owned and/or operated equipment. Visit the eWaste service page to learn more about this service. Personal/Home Equipment Properly disposing of technology equipment at home is just as important as at work. Douglas County typically hosts at least one e-recycling event each year. Information on the e-recycling events and other environmentally responsible disposal options is available on the Douglas County website. When disposing of an old computer, just deleting files isn't enough to protect your personal information because in many cases the files are still recoverable. You should either overwrite the data or physically destroy the storage device (e.g., hard drive, thumb drive, etc.) Tips for protecting your personal data when disposing of an old computer: Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.