Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About KU IT Overview KU Information Technology supports the University of Kansas academic and research missions by providing a broad range of technology services, including key campus technical infrastructure. From data to voice, email to video, web-based academic and administrative systems, software and virus protection, KU IT delivers innovative services in support of learning, scholarship, and creative endeavor. KU IT includes a 24/7 enterprise data center and many knowledgeable staff providing KU with expertise in server and desktop support, application support, software development, IT security, networking, as well as customer support and project management. Working together, our staff deliver technology services you use at KU. Our Values Integrity by… Always treating others with respect, courtesy and fairness. Maintaining confidentiality and professionalism at all times. Diversity by… Recognizing and respecting the value of differences, and acknowledging and appreciating the contributions of others. Freedom of expression by… Expressing candid views without the fear of recrimination, and encouraging and acknowledging new ideas. Team spirit by… Communicating openly and honestly in a constructive and supportive manner, and sharing ideas and resources. Accountability by… Taking personal and professional responsibility for our actions, maintaining a consistently high level of performance. Promoting transparency in decision-making. Excellence by… Establishing a high performance culture designed to achieve exceptional outcomes. University Information Technology Policies Policies, procedures, guides, standards and related documentation pertaining to information technology at the university are available in the KU Policy Library. Key IT-related policies are listed below. Use and Access Policies Acceptable Use of Electronic Information Resources Select to follow link Information Technology Security Policy Select to follow link Password Policy Select to follow link Blackboard, Policies, Procedures Related to Use of, University of Kansas Select to follow link Information Access Control Policy Select to follow link Investigative Contact by Law Enforcement, Policy and Procedures Select to follow link Data Handling & Security Policies Data Classification and Handling Policy Select to follow link Gramm-Leach-Billey Student Financial Information Security Policy Select to follow link Electronic Data Disposal Policy Select to follow link E-Commerce Policy Select to follow link Roles and Responsibilities for Information Management Policy Select to follow link Security Procedure: Risk and Vulnerability Assessments Select to follow link Network & Infrastructure Policies Virtual Private Network (VPN) Service on the University of Kansas Data Network Select to follow link Data Center and Server Room Policy Select to follow link Network Policy Select to follow link Server Registration and Centralization Select to follow link Wireless Local Area Network (LAN) Systems Policy Select to follow link Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Policy Select to follow link Telecommunications Physical Infrastructure Select to follow link Telecommunications Wiring Policy Select to follow link Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.