Skip to Main Content Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio In our first-of-its-kind, immersive Studio curriculum, all master's students will build solutions for industry partners and develop skills in end-to-end product development and entrepreneurship. Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Find out what it’s like to study, work, and live on one of the most advanced campuses in the world. Learn More Buildings Discover how our award-winning campus helps you think better and work smarter. Plan your event Explore our high-tech venues for your next NYC event. Tour Campus Walk our campus from wherever you are in the world. Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More Visit Search for: Visit Search for: Academics Master's Programs Overview Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Connective Media Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Health Tech Concentration Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees – Urban Tech Concentration Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Curriculum Faculty & Practitioners Real-World Access Culture Admissions Admissions Events Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual MS Degrees Application Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application PhD Application Tuition & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Impact Alumni Startups Break Through Tech Community Diversity & Inclusion Immersive Health K-12 Initiative Public Interest Technology Runway Startups \Art Research Research Labs & Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Business & Entrepreneurship Data & Modeling Human-Centered Computing Law & Policy Security & Privacy Technology, Society, & Ethics People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Cornell Tech Council Campus Campus Buildings Plan your event Tour Campus Jacobs Institute Learn More CONNECT WITH US 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 People Home / People People Faculty Cornell Tech Council Leadership PhD Students Practitioners & Researchers Innovation thrives on rigorous thinking, creative ideas, a vibrant environment and a bit of the unexpected. The diverse people of Cornell Tech embody this inspiring and dynamic mix and are driven by the desire to help spark the next great tech revolution. Faculty Our faculty pursue research that helps advance technical fields and often has application in the real world. They are passionate about encouraging a new generation of tech leaders and seeking innovative solutions, and they are experienced at working with the public and private sectors. Learn More About Our Faculty Practitioners & Researchers Practitioners offer unique perspectives and come from diverse backgrounds, including other institutions and leading companies in NYC and beyond. They help shape the Cornell Tech experience and environment. Practitioners offer input, guidance, mentorship, and industry knowledge. Cornell Tech hosts researchers whose work is both rigorous and relevant to the city’s tech ecosystem. Many researchers are supported by industry sponsors, and these relationships result in joint projects, sponsored research and technology transfer between campus and local industry. Learn More about Our Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students PhD students at Cornell Tech in New York City pursue the same degree programs as their peers in Ithaca. They belong to the same PhD programs, are members of the same graduate fields, follow the same application process, and have the same course and research requirements. Learn More about Our PhD Students Leadership Our leadership and the dedicated staff members on their teams are here to support all participants in Cornell Tech’s ambitious mission, from faculty to students, industry partners to alumni. These are the people who make it possible to offer a completely new kind of graduate education. Learn More About Our Leadership Cornell Tech Council The Cornell Tech Council is the primary governance group for Cornell Tech and a subsidiary body of the Cornell University Board of Trustees. The Council provides advice and counsel to the Dean and senior leadership and serves as active champions and supporters of Cornell Tech. Learn More About The Cornell Tech Council About About Career Management Jobs News Discover Built at Cornell Tech Community Engagement Contact Diversity & Inclusion Giving The Café Resources Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Safety & Security Connect with us Stay in the loop on all things Cornell Tech Email Address Subscribe 'Follow on facebook 'Follow on twitter 'Follow on youtube-play 'Follow on linkedin 'Follow on instagram 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 © 2020 Cornell Tech. All right reserved.