Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Email Your KU Email The University of Kansas provides students, faculty and staff with email accounts. A KU email account is automatically created when you set up a new KU Online ID. Set up a New KU Online ID How long do I keep my KU email after leaving the university? Students and faculty lose access to their KU email 210 days after leaving the university. Unclassified Professional Staff (UPS) and University Support Staff (USS) lose access immediately after leaving the university. For this reason, we recommend using a more permanent personal email account for non-KU related purposes. We encourage you to review the Electronic Mail Policy to help guide your use of KU email. Can I change my KU email address? When you set up your KU Online ID, your default email address is automatically created and looks something like "a123b456@ku.edu." If you prefer a custom email address that is easier to remember (we call it an "alias"), you can change your email address at MyIdentity Services. Checking Your KU Email There are three ways to check your KU email: web browser, desktop mail client or mobile device: Web Browser Access your email and calendar online from anywhere in the world on any internet-enabled device by logging into Outlook Office 365. Just enter your KU email address and you will be taken to the standard KU log in page where you will enter your KU Online ID and password. Desktop Client Microsoft Outlook is the recommended and supported desktop/laptop computer email client for KU email services for both Windows and Mac. Outlook is already installed on faculty and staff workstations. Students, faculty and staff can install Outlook on personal devices for free through Microsoft Office 365. Instructions for configuring Outlook are available in our Knowledge Base. Mobile Device You can access your KU email account on a mobile device either by using a browser and logging into Outlook Office 365, or setting up your email account directly on your device (see below). Set Up Email on Devices KU IT recommends Microsoft Outlook for setting up KU email on your desktop computer, laptop or mobile device and the Outlook app for connecting email to your mobile device. Visit Configure Email on Your Devices for more information and instructions. Email Security KU IT has implemented robust security measures to protect you and the KU community, including Microsoft Advanced Threat Protection, encryption and digital signatures. Advanced Threat Protection Advanced Threat Protection (ATP) not only helps protects you from malicious emails, it also helps reduce annoying spam. It can prevent unwanted or harmful emails from ever reaching your inbox. In addition, ATP protects in other ways: Link spoof detection ― When you click a URL in an email, ATP will scan that URL and cross reference it with Microsoft’s known-threat databases. Attachment scanning and quarantine — All email attachments from non-KU email addresses will be scanned, and suspicious or malicious attachments will be quarantined and/or deleted. Email Encryption and Digital Signatures Encryption is a way to send an encoded message that can only be decoded by someone with the proper key. A digital signature is a mathematical algorithm that helps validate that a message is from the stated sender, and that the content of the message has not changed since it was sent. To get your digital certificates for email encryption and digital signing, and to learn more about email security at KU visit our email security page. More About Email Security Departmental Email Accounts Departmental email accounts are available to departments and campus organizations, and are associated with a task or function. Examples of departmental accounts include purchasing@ku.edu, musicnews@ku.edu and design@ku.edu. A departmental email account allows multiple people in the department or organization to check and respond to emails to the account. Visit our Departmental Email service page for more information, including how to request a departmental email account. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.