Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Information Technology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Support Select to follow link Student Tech Help Faculty & Staff Tech Help Visitor & Parent Tech Help Edwards Campus Tech Help Software & Services Select to follow link Software & Services Overview Software & Services Catalog Accounts Select to follow link Personal Accounts Departmental Accounts Access After Leaving KU Email Select to follow link Email Overview Configure Email on Devices Departmental Email Email Distribution Lists Wi-Fi Service Updates & News IT Security Select to follow link IT Security Overview Passwords Email Security Select to follow link Malicious Emails & Phishing Email Advanced Threat Protection Email Encryption & Digital Signatures Protecting KU Data Virus & Malware Protection Multi-factor Authentication Research Security Encryption Security When Traveling Public Wi-Fi IT Security for Remote Work Social Media Training and Consulting Research Technology Select to follow link Research Technology Overview IT Security for Researchers File Storage for Researchers Research Workstation Support Research Server Hosting Applications & Databases Research Websites Data Centers and Network Advanced Computing Facility Working Off Campus Select to follow link Working Off Campus Overview Have the Right Equipment Accessing Campus Systems Security for Remote Work Tools for Remote Work About Select to follow link KU IT Overview People Diversity Efforts Price Computing Center IT Governance Publications Select to follow link 2021 Annual Report 2021 KU Research Technology Report » 2020 Annual Report Sustainability Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Information Technology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Software & Services Accounts Departmental Accounts KU IT provides various types of accounts to serve and support different functions and needs of campus units and departments. Resource Accounts Departmental resource accounts are Microsoft Exchange accounts for specific rooms or equipment. Once a departmental resource account has been established for a room or piece of equipment, users can schedule the resource just like participants via Microsoft Outlook meeting invites. Visit the Departmental Resource Accounts service page for more information. Email Accounts Departmental email accounts are associated with a task or function. Departmental accounts are owned by the department or organization and must be renewed annually (fall semester). Examples of departmental accounts include "purchasing@ku.edu" and "design@ku.edu." Visit the Departmental Email service page for more information. Sponsored Temporary Accounts Sponsored Temporary Accounts provide access to select KU technology systems and services for campus temporary workers, such as contractors, vendors, guests, groups, etc. Visit the Sponsored Temporary Accounts page for more information. Website Accounts All official KU units/departments can request a content management system (CMS) website account. Designed for non-technical users, KU's content management system (CMS) is a software platform that enables users to create and maintain websites within the KU template. Student organizations and individuals are not eligible for CMS accounts. Non-CMS website options are available for special use cases. Visit the Web Hosting service page for more information. Database Accounts KU IT assists faculty and staff in creating accounts to develop and maintain an online database on their own. Individuals planning to create and maintain their own online database must be trained in the programming language they plan to use. KU Web Services provides custom programming and database creation to faculty and staff for the development of online databases. Visit the Oracle service page for more information. Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Canvas Help New2KU | Students & Employees HowtoKU | Tutorials & Training LogMeIn Rescue Login Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.