Skip To Main Content Part of The Texas A&M University System Quick links: Careers Employees Industry Government Search Search Search Search Search Menu Who We Are Services RELLIS News Contact Us Search Search Who We Are Services RELLIS News Contact Us Careers Employees Industry Government Who We Are Who We Are About Us Who We Are Why TEES? Who We Are Strengths Who We Are By the Numbers Discover TEES Leadership Team Government Relations Career Opportunities History News Services Services Service Offerings Services Technology Development Services Workforce Development Services Commercialization and Entrepreneurship Services World-Class Facilities Market Segments Energy Health Care Infrastructure Manufacturing National Security RELLIS RELLIS RELLIS Campus RELLIS RELLIS Research Facilities Discover RELLIS RELLIS History RELLIS Campus Management News News Top Stories News Events and Conferences News Announcements and News Releases TEES Impact News Feed Media Relations Contact Contact Us Contact Us Contact Us Contact Us Industry Support Contact Us Government Relations Contact Us Leadership Team Contact Us Work With Us Resources Employee Resources Personnel Directory Research Centers Regional Divisions and Affiliates Important Notice COVID-19 guidance and testing locations Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station The Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station (TEES) performs research and leverages expertise from universities, national laboratories and state and federal agencies to improve lives through basic and applied engineering research. Our collaborations result in cutting-edge solutions to global technical challenges. Why Choose TEES? Protecting the power grid through cyber-physical threat response Applied Research TEES supports initiatives that solve problems through applied engineering research, technology development and collaboration with industry. Commercialization and Entrepreneurship Our Office of Commercialization and Entrepreneurship helps to transform researchers' discoveries into business activities and products. Workforce Development We support the state's workforce through education and training opportunities for every stage in life. Market Segments Energy Health Care Infrastructure Manufacturing National Security Work With Us By the Numbers Learn MoreLearn more about Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station Facts and Figures 1,342 research projects in 2021 $241M in TEES research awards in 2021 652 industry sponsors in 2021 Who We Are Applied Research TEES has the capabilities and flexibility to meet the applied research needs of industry, government and academia through multidisciplinary and multi-institutional connections. Services Mission Driven TEES is chartered by the State of Texas to execute the land grant mission as an independent research and development agency serving state and national security needs. We are an equitable partner that serves as the catalyst for stronger solutions. Crosscutting Strengths Impact What’s the hype with hypersonics? Hypersonic weapons and aircraft travel at least five times the speed of sound. Texas A&M University researchers and collaborators across the country are working with the Department of Defense to lead the charge in developing innovations in hypersonic technology, such as high-speed aviation and missiles. Using defensive deception to prevent information and operational technology manufacturing threats SecureAmerica Institute partners at North Carolina State University are developing methods to protect crucial information technology and operational technology networks in the manufacturing industry from cyberthreats. Using quantum methods to predict next-gen lithium-metal battery reactivity Texas A&M University researcher Dr. Perla Balbuena is using quantum chemical methods to track reactions that occur on the surface of lithium-metal batteries, potentially leading to enhanced battery usability. Contact Us For information about the Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station, contact us at tees-info@tamu.edu. Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station Headquarters 1111 RELLIS Parkway, Suite 5226 Bryan, TX 77807 tees@tamu.edu Phone: 979-317-3800 Staff Directory Site Map Site Policies About this Site Employment Follow Us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station is a member of The Texas A&M University System Copyright © 2022, Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station, All Rights Reserved State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Open Records Risk, Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Accommodations Statewide Search Texas CREWS Environmental Health, Safety and Security