Skip to content Search for: Home Reporting Form Resources Special Situations Team Search for: Home Reporting Form Resources Special Situations Team Special Situations TeamD0I7-T-A-M-U-D-U-M-M-Y2022-02-11T10:38:15-07:00 Special Situations Team In an effort to enhance already existing processes, and as a means to align Texas A&M University with emerging national standards relative to dealing with troubled and/or at risk faculty, staff, and students, an Special Situations Team has been assembled. The charge of the Special Situations Team is to assess circumstances, enhance communication, and initiate appropriate responses to specific behavioral problems that may involve threats to the safety and security of the University community. The Special Situations Team meets on a regular basis and can be convened by any member of the team at any time to respond to concerning situations. The following are members of the Special Situations Team: Mr. Andy Armstrong, Director, University Advising, Office for Student Success Mr. Andrew Barna, Director of Employee Relations, Human Resources and Organizational Effectiveness Mr. Jacob Becker, Office of General Counsel Dr. Mary Ann Covey, Director, Counseling & Psychological Services Dr. Martha Dannenbaum, Director, Student Health Services Mr. Mike Johnson, Chief, University Police Department Dr. Claire Katz, Associate Dean of Faculties Dr. N.K. Anand, Vice President for Faculty Affairs Mr. Kyle McCracken, Assistant Director, Residence Life Dr. Kristie Orr, Director, Disability Resources Dr. Anne Reber, Dean of Students/Associate Vice President, Student Affairs Ms. Chareny Rydl, Director, Residence Life Ms. Angela Winkler, Assistant Director, Offices of the Dean of Student Life (Many of these members have one or more back-up members that also serve on the team.) The Special Situations Team’s authority is derived from the already existing authority of the individuals who comprise it; the team will not be endowed with any additional authority; and the team will not create new policies or rules, rather they will work within existing rules and policies and propose any new rules or policies through existing processes. Individuals may use the TellSomebody online report form to submit reports to the Special Situations Team. The submitter of the report has the option to fill in contact information or submit the report anonymously. Reports submitted anonymously or with limited information may limit the Team’s ability to follow up on an incident. Once a report is submitted online, a copy is emailed to the entire team for appropriate review and necessary action. NOTE: Confidentiality cannot be guaranteed for reports submitted through this site. State law determines confidentiality. For more information about the Special Situations Team, please contact Dr. Anne Reber, Dean of Student Life, at 979-845-4728 or by email at a-reber@tamu.edu. Counseling & Psychological Services Student Health Services University Police Department Dean of Student Life Dean of Faculties Employee Assistance Program Bias/Hate Report Campus Community Incident Report Sexual Assault Information Stop Hazing Waste, Fraud, and Misconduct Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy - Webmaster - Give to Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University. Hosted by the Department of IT, Division of Student Affairs Page load link Go to Top