Skip to content Search for: Home Reporting Form Resources Special Situations Team Search for: Home Reporting Form Resources Special Situations Team HomeD0I7-T-A-M-U-D-U-M-M-Y2021-10-24T22:06:12-06:00 Reporting Form Oftentimes after a tragedy, people come forward with information and observations that, in retrospect, may have signaled a larger issue. This information when viewed collectively may be helpful in preventing tragic events and initiating assistance to an individual. Texas A&M University is committed to a proactive approach and needs your help. As a member of this University community, if you observe any behavior that is concerning you may report the behavior using the online report form or by contacting one of the Special Situations Team members during business hours. The Special Situations Team is comprised of University faculty and staff charged with helping students, faculty and staff who are exhibiting concerning behavior. The submitter of the report has the option to fill in contact information or submit the report anonymously. Reports submitted anonymously or with limited information may limit the Team’s ability to follow up on an incident. Once a report is submitted online, a copy is emailed to the entire team for appropriate review and necessary action. NOTE: Confidentiality cannot be guaranteed for reports submitted through this site. State law determines confidentiality. This is not a system to be used for emergencies. If you are in an emergency situation that requires medical, psychological or police services, call 911. Even when there is no threat to harm, it is recommended to involve others to discuss concerning behavior. If you don’t know whether to be concerned about a student’s behavior, contact the Dean of Student Life at 979-845-3111. If you need to consult with someone about a student in emotional distress, contact the Counseling & Psychological Services at 979-845-4427. If you need to consult with someone about a student’s disruptive behavior and the university conduct system, contact the Student Conduct Office at 979-847-7272. If you don’t know whether to be concerned about a faculty member’s behavior contact the Dean of Faculties at 979-845-4274. If you don’t know whether to be concerned about a staff member’s behavior contact Human Resources at (979) 862-4027. Counseling & Psychological Services Student Health Services University Police Department Dean of Student Life Dean of Faculties Employee Assistance Program Bias/Hate Report Campus Community Incident Report Sexual Assault Information Stop Hazing Waste, Fraud, and Misconduct Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy - Webmaster - Give to Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University. Hosted by the Department of IT, Division of Student Affairs Page load link Go to Top