Skip to content Search for: Home Reporting Form Resources Special Situations Team Search for: Home Reporting Form Resources Special Situations Team ResourcesD0I7-T-A-M-U-D-U-M-M-Y2020-11-18T14:17:25-07:00 If you need immediate assistance in responding to a threat to your safety, or the safety of others contact the TAMU University Police Department at 911. The non-emergency number is 845-2345. Even when there is no threat to harm, it is recommended to involve others to discuss concerning behavior. If you don’t know whether to be concerned about a student’s behavior, contact the Dean of Student Life at 979-845-3111. If you need to consult about a student in emotional distress, contact the Counseling & Psychological Services at 979-845-4427. If you need to consult with someone about a student’s disruptive behavior and the university conduct system, contact the Student Conduct Office at 979-847-7272. If you don’t know whether to be concerned about a faculty member’s behavior contact the Dean of Faculties at 979-845-4274. If you don’t know whether to be concerned about a staff member’s behavior contact Human Resources at 979-862-4027. Resource Materials Concerning Behaviors Response Guide (PDF) Other reporting mechanisms Hazing (stophazing.tamu.edu) Texas A&M University community members have many avenues in which to report incidents of suspected hazing. Bias/Hate Report (stophate.tamu.edu) The university defines a “bias complaint” as any report of a threat or act of harassment or intimidation which is directed against or targets a person or groups of persons of the Texas A&M community because of that person’s age, color, disability, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, or medical or genetic information.” This definition is used for reporting and statistical purposes only. Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, or Stalking (Titleix.tamu.edu) If you believe you or someone has been subjected to (1) sexual harassment by a University faculty or staff member, student, or TAMU visitor; or (2) any other form of sex-based discrimination under Title IX, you may report such misconduct or file a formal complaint with the Title IX Coordinator. Campus Community Incident Report (CCIR Online Form) The Campus Community Incident Report (CCIR) form is an opportunity for any individual in the Texas A&M University community (students, faculty or staff) to provide information concerning an alleged Texas A&M University Student Rule violation. Waste, Fraud, and Misconduct (EthicsPoint Online Form) If you have factual information suggestive of fraudulent, wasteful or abusive activities involving any A&M System member, employee, student, or other affiliate, we want you to report it. Examples of reportable issues include fraud, theft, misuse of A&M System resources or information, violations of safety rules or environmental laws, conflicts of interest, NCAA violations or discrimination. Counseling & Psychological Services Student Health Services University Police Department Dean of Student Life Dean of Faculties Employee Assistance Program Bias/Hate Report Campus Community Incident Report Sexual Assault Information Stop Hazing Waste, Fraud, and Misconduct Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 Accessibility - Security & Privacy Policy - Webmaster - Give to Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs, Texas A&M University. Hosted by the Department of IT, Division of Student Affairs Page load link Go to Top