Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Campuses You are here Home Academics Campuses Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Convenience and accessibility are two of the benefits that draw people to Temple. Our eight distinct campuses offer an array of diverse learning environments—from urban to suburban and local to international—that are sure to fit your needs, schedule and personality. Main Campus Temple’s bustling Main Campus crackles with energy, thanks to its location in the heart of Philadelphia, numerous new building projects and the 10,000 students who now live on or around our increasingly residential campus. On- and off-campus activities abound, including more than 300 student organizations; Division I sporting events; and nearby restaurants, shops and entertainment. Ambler Beloved by generations of Temple students for its scenic beauty and nationally acclaimed gardens, Temple’s Ambler Campus fosters a close-knit community of students and faculty. Ambler students enjoy the full range of services that the suburban campus of a world-class university provides. Learn more about Ambler Campus. Center City Temple University Center City (TUCC) offers the ideal learning environment for adult and continuing-education students who must often balance the demands of a career, family and school. Surrounded by the home offices of major national corporations and just across the street from Philadelphia’s City Hall. Additionally, TUCC is near many of the city’s cultural and entertainment resources. Classes are offered primarily in the evenings and on weekends. Learn more about TUCC. Harrisburg Course schedules at Temple University Harrisburg cater to busy adults pursuing graduate degree programs, certificate programs and professional development opportunities. Most classes are offered in the evenings or on weekends. The campus is conveniently located in the Strawberry Square complex in downtown Harrisburg, close to many businesses. Learn more about Temple Harrisburg. Podiatric Medicine This campus was the first-ever developed specifically for podiatric education and treatment. The complex includes student housing, educational facilities and the comprehensive Foot and Ankle Institute, all just steps away from Philadelphia’s historic and entertainment attractions. Learn more about Temple’s School of Podiatric Medicine. Health Sciences Center Step onto the Health Sciences Center and be immersed in the future of healthcare. Home to four of Temple’s medical-related schools and colleges, as well as the nationally ranked Temple University Hospital, the Health Sciences Center is a hub of academic, clinical and research activities. Japan The Temple T flies proudly over this campus, which is the oldest and largest foreign university in Japan. Temple University, Japan Campus, takes pride in the top-quality, English-language education it offers. It also provides a unique opportunity for thousands of students from nearly 60 countries to earn American undergraduate and graduate degrees. Learn more about studying in Japan. Rome Housed in a historic, light-filled villa on the banks of the Tiber River, Temple Rome immerses students in the richness of Italian culture. An eclectic faculty, frequent field trips, small class sizes and internship opportunities provide students with an unforgettable study-abroad experience. Learn more about life at Temple Rome. Go back to AcademicsMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.