Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bold Action, Bright Future Education at the intersection of research, innovation and social impact. See What We Do Standing Together to Address Safety The university announced a series of actions we are undertaking to address violence in the community as well as prioritize and enhance the safety and well-being of all. Learn More Learn more at Temple's Undergraduate Admissions website Visit Temple University We offer many ways to discover all Temple University has to offer. You can register for an on-campus tour, take a virtual tour of Main Campus, attend an information session about your major of interest and much more. Visit us and see where you’ll be learning and growing. Learn more at Temple's Undergraduate Admissions website Apply Undergraduate Graduate & Professional International Transfer Learn More Data Integrity Data integrity is essential to all our schools, colleges, units and processes at Temple University. Learn More Data Integrity Find Your Program Transformative Education Browse the variety of undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs offered at Temple. Find Your Program Transformative Education Upcoming Events See All Events 5/31 Tuesday Foundations of Study Abroad [Virtual] 5/31 Tuesday SMART Goals & Substances 6/7 Tuesday Staying Present: Using Mindfulness to Manage Stress 6/9 Thursday Beyond Yes and No: Building A Culture of Consent 6/14 Tuesday Cultivating Healthy Sexuality Temple’s Impact Meet members of the Temple community who are pioneering thoughtful and deliberate change, here and across the globe. Our students, alumni, faculty and staff know that perseverance and passion lead us to do great things so we can improve the lives of many and find answers to some of the world’s biggest challenges. /about/news-media/temples-impact/career-charitable-change Career in Charitable Change Only seven years after earning a bachelor’s degree, one graduate is in charge of managing $5 million in assets and distributing life-changing grants. Read more about Temple alumnae Erinn Corbett-Wright /about/news-media/temples-impact/fueled-temple-experiences Fueled by Temple Experiences After sports media internships with national teams in Philadelphia, this Temple grad now manages the fast-paced social media strategy for the NBA. Read more about Doug Ammon /about/news-media/temples-impact/advancing-breast-cancer-research Advancing Breast Cancer Research A bioengineering professor is pioneering research for better breast cancer diagnostic tools, supported by a National Cancer Institute award and American Cancer Society grant. Advancing Breast Cancer Research Latest Stories See All Stories Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Athletics Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers by Anonymous April 04 On March 30, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers announced that defensive coordinator Todd Bowles, CLA '86, will be taking on the role of head coach following the retirement of "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color Arts & Culture "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color January 11 Black Lives Always Mattered!, a graphic novel created by the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection at Temple, was recently published and is now being distributed Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Campus News Honors Program appoints new leadership positions January 06 Temple University's Honors Program has appointed new leadership following the retirement of its longtime senior director, Ruth Ost. Taking the helm as director will be MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him Student Success MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him December 14 A historian and National Book Award-winning and New York Times bestselling author, Ibram X. Kendi, CLA '07, '10, is one of the country's most influential scholars, whose The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath Arts & Culture The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath October 15 The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of Jimmy HeathThe band's new album, Without You, No Me, honors not only Heath, but also celebrated music Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.