Menu About Eligibility FAQ Programs TEXAS ADVANCE COMMITMENT Expanding Financial Aid to Make UT More Affordable for Texans The Texas Advance Commitment is a game-changing program for both current UT students and generations of Longhorns to come. It represents our university's fundamental belief in the talent that our great state has to offer. We want to make sure that the best and brightest from across Texas — from the Panhandle to the Rio Grande Valley and from El Paso to Tyler, and everywhere in between — have the opportunities and support they need to thrive on the Forty Acres. This commitment does exactly that for many UT students and families each year and our university is stronger because of it. I am forever grateful to Chairman Kevin Eltife and the Board of Regents, who expanded this program in 2019 and increased its reach and impact in profound ways. - Jay Hartzell, President We want our students to take advantage of all the opportunities UT has to offer and experience the exceptional education of our “University of the First Class.” We are committed to help lessen student debt and make a UT education affordable for Texans from middle- and low-income families. This new long-term investment will help more students succeed and become the future leaders of tomorrow for our state, nation, and the world. Starting in fall 2020, the expanded program will increase funding to include both Texas resident first-time-in-college and transfer students. Details on Texas Advance Commitment are listed in the Frequently Asked Questions below. Starting Fall 2020 TUITION COVERED Up to $65,000 adjusted gross income TUITION SUPPORT Up to $125,000 adjusted gross income Eligibility Requirements Be a Texas resident Submit a FAFSA or TASFA Have demonstrated financial need* Enrolled full-time first-time-in-college or transfer students pursuing their first bachelor’s degree Have a family adjusted gross income (AGI) between $0–125,000** Maintain 2.0 GPA and complete 75% of courses attempted for renewal eligibility *As determined by information provided on the FAFSA or TASFA **For students entering 2020 and beyond Learn More About the Texas Advance Commitment Frequently Asked Questions UT System announced an investment in financial aid that will expand the Texas Advance Commitment in fall 2020. See the announcement to learn more. What is the Texas Advance Commitment? First implemented in 2018, the Texas Advance Commitment is UT Austin’s commitment to making a UT education even more affordable, more transparent, and understandable for Texas students and families from middle- and low-income backgrounds who have financial need. Texas Advance Commitment was expanded in Fall 2020 to increase income levels served through a new endowment created by The University of Texas System Board of Regents. Under the expansion, Texas residents entering UT Austin as freshmen or transfer students as well as continuing students with family adjusted gross incomes (AGIs) of up to $65,000 will have tuition covered with gift monies up to tuition. Students with family AGIs between $65,000 and $125,000 will receive some financial assistance to help offset the cost of their tuition at UT Austin. Who is eligible for the Texas Advance Commitment? Students meeting the following criteria are eligible for Texas Advance Commitment funding. Texas resident undergraduates who entered UT Austin in fall 2018 or later pursuing their first degree. Students who enter as freshmen can receive funding for up to four years or the length of their program. Transfer students can receive funding for up to three years or the length or their program. Have a family adjust gross income (AGI) between $0-125,000 and show financial need as determined by the FAFSA or TASFA. Students with an AGI of up to $65,000 with need with receive support to cover their tuition Students with an AGI between $65,000 and $125,00 will receive tuition support Texas Advance Commitment Awards can be renewed based on the following: Continuing students who are making satisfactory academic progress (2.0 GPA and completed 75% of hours attempted) Students who entered UT Austin in between Fall 2018 to Fall 2020 and were eligible for Texas Advance Commitment based on their entering year FAFSA data will continue to be considered for eligibility for up to four years. Students who became eligible after their first year at UT for Texas Advance Commitment funding under the expanded income guidelines in 2020 and students who enter UT Austin in fall of 2021 and beyond will be evaluated annually using that year’s FAFSA or TASFA data to determine continued eligibility for funding. How does Texas Advance Commitment program work? For students with a family adjusted gross income of up to $65,000 your tuition will be covered first by your Federal and State grants (Pell, FSEOG and Texas Grant) If your eligibility for these programs does not cover the full cost of your tuition, UT Austin will make up the difference with institutional grants or scholarships. For eligible undergraduate or first time in college transfer students, grants and scholarships are used first to cover the costs of tuition. If needed, university funds are added to either cover tuition or provide financial assistance. The Texas Advanced Commitment applies to tuition; however, there are additional grant, scholarship, work-study and loan funds available to help with the other costs of education, like books and room and board. Students in the Texas Advanced Commitment program can receive grants or scholarships beyond the cost of tuition up to need. How do I apply? There is no separate application! Admitted students who submit either the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or the TASFA (Texas Application for State Financial Aid) and have a complete financial aid file will automatically be considered for financial aid assistance under the Texas Advance Commitment. Can I qualify if my family’s adjusted gross income is more than $125K? The Texas Advance Commitment is designed for Texas resident students who meet all the eligibility requirements. Only students who meet all of the Texas Advance Commitment requirements with family adjusted gross incomes of up to $125,000 will be eligible to receive financial assistance. Are these awards renewable? Awards will be based on annual review of a student's FAFSA or TASFA, full-time student status, having financial need, maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) and pursuit of a first undergraduate degree. Will I see Texas Advance Commitment on my Financial Aid Notification (FAN)? No, you will not see the words "Texas Advance Commitment" on your financial aid notification. All sources of tuition funding, including grant and scholarship assistance meet the commitment. For example, if an eligible student receives a federal Pell grant and/or a Texas Grant these resources are applied first. The university then covers the gap to tuition for eligible students with family adjusted gross incomes of up to $65,000 and provides some tuition assistance for those eligible students with family adjusted gross incomes of up to $125,000. Is Texas Advance Commitment available for Summer? No. Currently Texas Advance Commitment is not awarded during the Summer term. If new or transfer students are entering UT Austin in the Summer and are eligible for Texas Advance Commitment funds they will receive those funds beginning in the following Fall semester. How many hours do I need to be enrolled at UT to be eligible for the Texas Advance Commitment? For eligible students with a family adjusted gross income (AGI) of up to $65,000, your financial assistance will be adjusted based on your enrollment (full-time or part-time) as of the 12th class day. Your Texas Advance Commitment award will be equal the cost of the applicable tuition. Students with AGIs between $65,000 and $125,000 will have funds adjusted according to program rules of the funding the student received. What other options are there for financial aid? If you don’t qualify for Texas Advance Commitment, there are scholarship, work-study, and loan funds that can help pay for your educational costs. Students should apply for financial aid by filing the FAFSA or TASFA and contact their college or school regarding scholarship opportunities. As an incoming freshman, I believed there was no possibility for me to continue my education without any financial aid. The scholarships I received from UT have allowed me to follow my passions and pursue the degree I always wanted without worrying my family about paying tuition or my expenses. — Kellen Rios, Class of 2021 Investing in Texas Students: Other Signature Scholarship Programs These additional scholarship programs recognize our high-achieving students and support student success and timely graduation. Texas Excellence Incoming freshmen with excellent academic credentials and high financial need are selected for the prestigious Texas Excellence award. Students are awarded up to $20,000 ($5,000 per year) over their four years at UT and may be eligible to receive additional funding to participate in an enrichment opportunity during that time. University Leadership Network (ULN) ULN is a nationally recognized incentive-based scholarship program. Each year, a select group of freshmen with demonstrated financial need are selected to receive up to $20,000 ($5,000 per year) and participate in ULN's four-year program, which is focused on academic and leadership skills to facilitate timely graduation. UT for Me — Powered by Dell Scholars As part of the university’s commitment to student success, and in partnership with the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation, the UT for Me — Powered by Dell Scholars program offers incoming Pell-eligible students scholarship opportunities of up to $20,000, in addition to support such as laptops, textbook credit and peer advising. Impact Scholarships Impact Scholarships recognize high-potential students from across the state who are making an impact in their local community, who will make an impact on the Forty Acres, and who will make an impact in their communities when they graduate. Texas Advance Partner Schools In order to make a UT Austin education affordable for more Texans, we have partnered with more than 100 high schools across Texas. These Texas Advance Partner (TAP) schools are schools with a majority of students that are low income and/or traditionally underrepresented students. Each partner school is guaranteed at least two scholarship offers each year for students from their high schools who are admitted to UT Austin. The offers may include Presidential Scholar awards, University Leadership Network awards, or Impact Scholarships. Offers are non-transferable in cases where students from a TAP school decide not to enroll at UT Austin. In addition to the guaranteed scholarship offers, all UT Austin applicants from TAP schools receive automatic waivers for both their admissions and housing application fees and automatic deferments for their admissions enrollment deposit and their housing advance payment. These guarantees result in more than $600 in savings to upfront costs for students from TAP schools. Have Questions or Need Help? Financial Aid Admissions © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 · Emergency Information · Site Policies · Web Accessibility Policy · Web Privacy Policy