Skip to content Menu About Overview Friends of the Texas Innovation Center Our Team Media and Recognition UT Austin Startup Ecosystem Programming Overview Upcoming Events Past Events Texas Biodesign SXSW 2022 Startups Overview Startup-In-A-Box UT Companies Funding COVID-19 Technologies The Space Reservations Contact Us Make a Gift Impact Report 2020-2022 Inspire. | Create. | Commercialize. Welcome to Longhorn Tech Nation. About the Texas Innovation Center BIG TECH. BIG IMPACT. Impact Report 2020-2022 What We Offer The Texas Innovation Center provides the resources needed to transform new ideas and discoveries into startup companies that successfully access the marketplace, preparing innovators to succeed in a global economy. We provide: Commercialization Support Through programming that includes workshops, speaker series and coaching sessions Co-Working Space With open desks, conference rooms and a kitchen where founders can collaborate on ventures and host meetings Wet Lab Facilities With fume hoods where founders can conduct lab work that advances the commercial viability of their technologies Connections and Resources That include incubators, accelerators, mentors, investors and access to capital The Texas Innovation Center is the hub at The University of Texas at Austin for bringing engineering and science discoveries and technologies to the market. Watch the video Campus Network Office of Technology Commercialization Austin Technology Incubator Herb Kelleher Center for Entrepreneurship Texas Health Catalyst Texas Inventionworks Inventors Program Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Longhorn Startup Texas Venture Labs Drug Dynamics Institute Imagine Moody Blackstone LaunchPad Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Social Innovation Initiative Texas Global Upcoming Events Nothing Found It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. Perhaps searching can help. Search for: Cockrell School of Engineering College of Natural Sciences Office of Technology Commercialization © The University of Texas at Austin, 2021 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Contact Us The Texas Innovation Center is collaborative partnership between the Cockrell School of Engineering, the College of Natural Sciences and the Office of Technology Commercialization. It is headquartered in the corridor connecting Ernest Cockrell Jr. Hall and the Engineering Education and Research Center. 301 E. Dean Keeton St. Room 2.518 Austin, TX 78712 innovation@utexas.edu Follow us! Copyright © 2022 Texas Innovation Center – OnePress theme by FameThemes