Top of Page Search Content: Close Site Search Alumni Login First-Time Users My Profile Contact & Visit Ways to Give Facebook Instagram Twitter Flickr YouTube Linked In Open Site Search Menu Directory Network Leadership Dean's Council Alumni Council Services Career Services ❯ Transcript Requests ❯ Dartmouth Libraries ❯ Events All Events Virtual Event Archive Give Now Contact Information Update Search Content: Directory Network Leadership Dean's Council Alumni Council Services Career Services ❯ Transcript Requests ❯ Dartmouth Libraries ❯ Events All Events Virtual Event Archive Give Now Contact Information Update Login First-Time Users My Profile Contact & Visit Ways to Give Home Creator of Breakthrough Coronavirus Technology to Receive Inaugural McGuire Prize Dartmouth has announced that the inaugural $100,000 McGuire Family Prize for Societal Impact will be presented to Jason McLellan, a structural biologist whose groundbreaking coronavirus research conducted at the Geisel School of Medicine laid the foundation for COVID-19 vaccines that have saved countless lives. Dartmouth Names New Engineering & CS Center for Class of 1982 Dartmouth has capped the largest construction project in its history by naming the new West End District's epicenter of technology and entrepreneurship in honor of the Class of 1982, whose members' generous giving made the interdisciplinary academic building possible. First Female NASA Deputy Administrator Dava Newman to Deliver 2022 Investiture Address Dava Newman, professor of astronautics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Harvard-MIT Health, Sciences, and Technology faculty member will deliver the keynote address at Thayer School of Engineering's Investiture ceremony and has been named this year's recipient of the Robert Fletcher Award, Dartmouth Engineering's highest honor. Off-Campus Programs Return to a New Normal After six consecutive terms of a pandemic-related hiatus that began in March 2020, undergraduates are once again studying abroad through programs sponsored by the Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. Thayer School Annual Fund Helps Students Become Engineers Professor Eugene Korsunskiy believes the Senior Design Thinking interdisciplinary capstone course, with its emphasis on melding engineering with the liberal arts, could only happen at Thayer School. His vision for the class focuses on creating innovators, not just innovations; collaborators capable of walking into any project with a toolkit, and walking out with a solution. Lend your support today. Let's Hear all About It! Do you ever wonder what your fellow alumni friends are up to? Read the latest Alumni Notes for more on the adventures and updates from our Dartmouth engineers. Events THAYER SCHOOL COVID-19 INFORMATION Jun 11 Thayer Investiture Investiture is held the day before Dartmouth Commencement and honors graduating BE, MEM, MEng, MS, and PhD students through the presentation of academic hoods, caps, and awards. See the Thayer Investiture page for more information. Read More Aug 05 Celebrating the Class of 2020 We are thrilled to welcome you and your families back to Hanover to honor the achievements of the Thayer School of Engineering Class of 2020 graduates with an in-person Commencement Celebration this summer. Read More Sep 29 Thayer’s 26th annual Engineering Career Fair Mark your calendar for our annual fall engineering career fair on Thursday, September 29, 2022 - in person at Thayer School of Engineering in Hanover, NH! Thayer brings together employers who are seeking students with an engineering or technical background for a variety of roles, and students who are seeking opportunities in engineering and tech fields. All undergraduate, graduate students and alumni are invited! Learn more Read More View All Events Alumni Portraits Cathy Zoi is currently the CEO of EVgo, working to build a nation-wide network of fast-charging stations for electric vehicles. Spending a career in the energy industry including serving as Assistant Secretary at the US Dept. of Energy she says, "It's been a dream ride and I'm proud to say we're making progress." - Cathy Zoi TH'85 A structural engineer at Northrop Grumman, Moises describes himself as “a well-rounded individual with strong interpersonal skills, a dedication to community engagement, and a passion for playing the drums.” - Moises Silva '16 Th'16 Jian Lu earned his PhD at Thayer and is now president of LinkedIn China—after playing a key role at Apple Inc. on the team that developed QuickTime streaming. Jian credits Thayer's borderless approach to engineering with preparing him for multiple research and career transitions. - Jian Lu, Ph.D. Th'93 View All Portraits Leadership & Councils Dean's Council The Dean’s Council is an advisory group of recent engineering alumni who provide input and council to the Dean, senior leadership, and students. Councilors meet once a year on campus and serve as alumni ambassadors for the School. Alumni Council Reps Did you know that engineering alumni have two representatives that serve on the Alumni Council? Councilors share Dartmouth news and initiatives, inspire volunteerism and engagement with the College, and act on behalf of their constituents. Dartmouth Society of Engineers The Dartmouth Society of Engineers (DSE) is composed of students, alumni, and friends of Thayer School. The DSE supports academic, professional, and social activities at the School and has two chapters: the Parent Chapter ( alumni and friends) and the Student Chapter (current engineering students at Dartmouth). Alumni Services Career Services Thayer School offers you life-long access to career services and resources. Services for alumni includes support and advice for your own job search, and information on how to recruit our students for internships and full-time positions. Join the Thayer LinkedIn group. Transcript Requests Alumni may request official transcripts through Dartmouth's online service. Please note that eTranscripts are only available for the Class of 1999 to present. See Official Transcripts FAQs for more details. Dartmouth Library The digital library for alumni gives access to thousands of journals and databases. This includes web galleries of art and photographs, American FactFinder to view, print, and download statistics about industry and business; and patent searches too. Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH, 03755 (603) 646-2230 Facebook Instagram Twitter Flickr YouTube Linked In Give Now