Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Main College College News About Events Facilities Theatre Arts Alumni Visiting Artists and Professionals Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Current Students Faculty Degree Requirements About Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Current Students Faculty Degree Requirements Search About Events Facilities Theatre Arts Alumni Visiting Artists and Professionals Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Current Students Faculty Degree Requirements Welcome to the Theatre Arts Department at the U! If you love the theatre, the Department of Theatre Arts will provide you with the faculty, the tools, and the supportive community of fellow artists you will need to realize your theatrical dreams through rigorous training and study. Here, you will learn by doing. Every year, students work alongside professors to produce a full season of plays and musicals at the Jerry Herman Ring Theatre, gaining a thrilling array of hands-on theatrical experiences in a pre-professional theatrical setting. For upcoming events, please visit: The Jerry Herman Ring Theatre In addition to the liberal arts B.A. degree in theatre arts, students may choose to pursue B.F.A. degrees in acting (by audition), musical theatre (by audition), theatre management, stage management, and design/production. Regardless of the path you choose, your training as a theatre major will focus on you as a person and as an artist, preparing you for lifelong success both inside and outside of the theatre. Broadway @ the U Broadway Leaders Visit : UM Theatre Arts invites industry leaders to talk about careers on the professional stage. Learn More Showcase '21 Click here for more details! Learn More STA Summer Academy : The Summer Theatre Academy at UM promises six weeks of fun and learning! Learn More Facilities Ring Theatre : All performances feature UM students. Click here to go to the website. Learn More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Theatre Arts P.O. Box 248273 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305.284.4474 305.284.4474 305.284.5702 theatredepartment@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices