Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Theater and Performance Studies Share Department of Theater: Visiting Artists Spring 2022 Kat Yen kat-yen-headshot-768x511.jpeg Kat Yen: director, Ethically Ambiguous. Kat Yen is a Taiwanese-American theater artist who has directed at Ars Nova, Cherry Lane, Ensemble Studio Theater, Bushwick Starr, JACK, The Flea Theater, New Ohio, and Harvard/A.R.T., amongst others. Recent productions include Marisol by José Rivera, The Juniors by Noah Diaz, Two Mile Hollow by Leah Nanako Winkler, Mr. Burns A Post-Apocalyptic Play by Anne Washburn with music by Liam Bellman-Sharpe, and Othello. Upcoming productions include happy life by Kathy Ng and Fellowship by Sam Chanse. Kat is an alumnus of Lincoln Center Directors Lab, a former Resident Director at The Flea Theater, the 2016-2017 Van Lier Directing Fellow at Second Stage and the former Artistic Director of Spookfish Theatre Company. She is also a teaching artist at Stella Adler and LAByrinth Theater company and was recently an adjunct professor at Colgate University, Marymount Manhattan College, and University of Rochester. MFA Directing: Yale School of Drama. www.katyen.com / @katkoral Winter 2022 Sagan Chen Sagan Chen Sagan Chen '14: director, The Virtuous Fall of the Girls from Our Lady of Sorrows. Sagan (they/he/she) is an award-winning actor, filmmaker, and theatre artist. As a queer nonbinary Chinese-American artist they center their work on uplifting underrepresented narratives onstage, onscreen, and on the page. Onstage: Joy of Painting (Clubbed Thumb), Two Mile Hollow (Yale), Six Years Old, Stone, and delicacy of a puffin heart (Corkscrew Theater Festival), Something for the Fish (CPR), Exposed Bone (The PIT Loft). Onscreen: High Maintenance (HBO), Girl Talk, Here We Wait, and Sideways Smile. Directing: Dartmouth College, Samuel French OOB Festival, Frigid Festival, Corkscrew Festival, Women in Theatre Festival. Narrator of Ana On The Edge. IG: @sagan.chen Winter 2022 Dionne McClain-Freeney Dionne McClain-Freeney Dionne McClain-Freeney: assistant musical director, Rent. Composer: The Movie Star & The Mammy (Joe's Pub), The Sugar Hill Sisters (NYMF). Composer & Lyricist: The Harriet Holland Social Club (Movement Theatre Company), Rice & Rocks (Brooklyn Children's Theatre), Going Home: Movement of Voices (N.Y. Philharmonic's New World Initiative), This One Girl's Story (NC A&T, NYMF, Gayfest, GLAAD Media Award nominee). Music direction: Brecht on Brecht (Off-Broadway) Spiritual Uprising (People's Light & Theatre), Black Queens Screen Test (The Tank), "Turn The Volume Up!- Amplifying Black Keys" (Ring of Keys), For Colored Girls (Public Theatre), We Got Beth, Billy Ragamatag and the Shadow Circus, Shrek, Beauty and The Beast (Piper Theatre), The Fourth Wall (Off-Broadway). Bring The Beat Back (Polyphone Theatre Festival). BMI Lehman Engel Musical Theatre Workshop. TGBTG! Winter 2022 Kevin Smith smith_kevin.jpg Kevin A. Smith: musical director, Rent. Kevin is native of Omaha, Nebraska and holds degrees from the University of Nebraska at Omaha and Southern Illinois University. Musical Supervisor at McLeod Summer Playhouse, Carbondale, IL. New York City credits include: Amas Romeo & Bernadette; Theater 2020 A Little Night Music; Three Act Theater Next to Normal. National Tours: Miss Nelson is Missing, Miss Nelson Had a Field Day, Stinky Cheese Man, The Little Engine That Could. Regional credits: Northern Stage The Sound of Music, Mamma Mia; McLeod Summer Playhouse Gypsy, The Drowsy Chaperone, 9 to 5, Into the Woods, Sister Act, Singin' in the Rain, Bring It On, Hairspray, Spamalot, The Sound of Music, Chicago and Annie. Dartmouth College: Into the Woods, Cabaret, Urinetown, Columbia University, Ragtime. Fall 2021 Kemati Janice Porter Kemati Porter Kemati Janice Porter: director, Saturday Night/Sunday Morning. Kemati Porter is an eminent theater director, producer, performer, and administrator whose tremendous career has centered on a 40+ year relationship with Chicago's eta Creative Arts Foundation, where she has contributed to and supported over 500 productions, workshops, conferences, and programs. Porter received her terminal degree in Directing from The Theatre School of DePaul University. She was one of the organizers of the first African American Women in the Arts Festival (1991-94) and has served as an administrator with The Martin Luther King Jr. Arts Complex and The Columbus Urban League. From 2003-2007 she was a TCG Fellow at the McCarter Theatre in Princeton, New Jersey. In 2007, she became the first Producing Artistic Director for eta Creative Arts Foundation in Chicago; she subsequently served as both the Executive Director and Producing Artistic Director until resigning in 2019 to prepare the groundwork for her company, FirstVoiceWorks, LLC. Fall 2021 Kareem Fahmy Kareem Fahmy Kareem Fahmy: director, Ridgway. Kareem Fahmy is a Canadian-born director and playwright of Egyptian descent. He has directed a number of world premiere productions including James Scruggs's 3/Fifths (3LD, New York Times Top 5 Must-See Shows), Sevan K. Greene's This Time (Sheen Center, New York Times Critics' Pick), Bess Welden's Refuge*Malja (Portland Stage), Adam Kraar's Alternating Currents (Working Theater), Nikkole Salter's Indian Head (Luna Stage), and Victor Lesniewski's Couriers and Contrabands (TBG Theatre, also co-creator). His plays, which include American Fast, A Distinct Society, The Triumphant, Pareidolia, The In-Between, and an adaptation of the acclaimed Egyptian novel The Yacoubian Building, have been developed or presented at The Atlantic Theater Company, TheatreWorks Silicon Valley, Northlight Theatre, New York Stage & Film, Target Margin Theater, The Lark, Capital Repertory Theatre, Fault Line Theater, and Noor Theater. Kareem has been a fellow or resident artist at the Sundance Theatre Lab, Oregon Shakespeare Festival (Phil Killian Directing Fellow), Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center (National Directors Fellow), TCG (Rising Leaders of Color), Second Stage (Van Lier Directing Fellow), Soho Rep (Writer/Director Lab), Lincoln Center (Directors Lab), The New Museum (Artist-in-Residence), and New York Theater Workshop (Emerging Artist Fellow & Usual Suspect). He has developed new plays at theaters around the country, including MCC, The Atlantic, The New Group, Ensemble Studio Theatre, New Dramatists, The Civilians, Geva Theatre, Pioneer Theatre, Silk Road Rising, and Berkeley Rep. He is a founder of Maia Directors, a consulting group for organizations and artists engaging with stories from the Middle East and beyond. MFA: Columbia University. www.kareemfahmy.com Fall 2021 Fabian Obispo obispo_fabian.jpg Fabian Obispo: sound designer, Fall Play Reading Series. Fabian Obispo returns to Dartmouth's Theater Department where he designed Big Love and Intimate Apparel. His recent theatre credits include Public Theater's Sea Wall/ A Life starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Tom Sturridge, Oedipus El Rey, and MaYi Theatre's Teenage Dick also at the Public. He has designed extensively for off-Broadway and regional theatre including Manhattan Theatre Club, Manhattan Class Company, Atlantic Theatre Company, Vineyard Theatre, The New Group, Classic Stage Company, New York Theatre Workshop, Arena Stage, Goodman Theatre, Guthrie Theater, American Conservatory Theater, The Shakespeare Theatre Company DC, Kennedy Center, Oregon Shakespeare Festival, Seattle Repertory Theatre, Cleveland Playhouse and Huntington Theatre Company among others. His musical Felix Starro recently received its world premiere off-Broadway and is the first musical created by Filipino-Americans. He was an artist-in-residence at the prestigious Rockefeller Foundation Bellagio Center in Italy, Ohio State University, New Harmony Project in Indiana and Sundance Theatre Lab. He is a recipient of numerous awards including the Barrymore and the Berkshire Theatre Critics Award. Summer 2021 Olivia Scott Kamkwamba '13 kamkwamba_olivia_scott.jpg Olivia Scott Kamkwamba '13: director, Umma. Olivia is a performance studies researcher who examines aid and education in Malawi and in the American South with care, creativity, and Dreamville. Olivia challenges organizations and individuals to think about history, their place in it, and how they can participate in envisioning, guiding, and controlling our collective futures. Winter 2021 Rebecca Martínez martinez_rebecca.png Rebecca Martínez: co-director, The Radical Joy Project. Rebecca Martínez is a director, choreographer, deviser, facilitator and ensemble member of Sojourn Theatre and the BOLD Associate Artistic Director at WP Theater. Originally from Denver, Colorado with deep ancestral roots in the Southwest, she's now based in Brooklyn, NY. Recent projects include: Sanctuary: A Soundwalk (Working Theater), Here We Are: Pandemic Fight (Theater for One - NY Times "Critics Pick") I Am My Own Wife (Long Wharf Theatre); Mojada: A Medea in Los Angeles (Repertory Theatre of St. Louis), Miss You Like Hell (Baltimore Center Stage), Wolf at the Door (Milagro Theatre, NNPN rolling world premiere), Anna in the Tropics (Fine Arts Center, Colorado Springs, Henry Award for Outstanding Direction). Rebecca has worked with INTAR, Working Theater, Signature Theatre, Manhattan Theatre Club, the Lark, The Playwrights Realm, New Dramatists, the 52nd Street Project, Radical Evolution, Milagro Theatre, Oregon Children's Theatre and Brave New World Repertory Theatre among others. Member of: Sol Project Collective, Lincoln Center Theater Directors Lab, INTAR's Unit52, SDCF Observer, Latinx Theatre Commons Advisory Committee, 2019 Audrey Resident, New Georges Affiliated Artist, 2018-2020 WP Lab, 2017 Drama League Directing Fellow, Member of SDC. She is the recipient of four Portland, Oregon Drammy Awards and the Lilla Jewel Award for Women Artists. Rebecca is an artist with the Center for Performance and Civic Practice where her work focuses on co-designed, cross-disciplinary social and civic practice engagement and invitation strategies. Rebeccamartinez.org Winter 2021 Jarvis Green green_jarvis_updated_3-2021.jpg Jarvis Green: co-director, The Radical Joy Project. Jarvis Antonio Green is the Founding Artistic Director of JAG Productions, a Vermont and NYC-based Black theater company founded in 2016. He is the recipient of the New England Theatre Conference Regional Award for Outstanding Achievement in the American Theatre for his work with JAG in its inaugural year. Every year he produces five new plays, nurturing the work of five budding playwrights at JAGfest, one of the nation's leading incubators of new works by Black playwrights. In 2020 he launched the Black Joy Project, a three-tiered project: a Black Theatre methodology, a play embodying the method, and a documentary film capturing its inception. Jarvis was acknowledged by Native Son as a Black queer man who impacted the world in 2020 and sees himself playing a key role in bringing actors and stories from all over the diaspora to stages worldwide. He has a robust artistic resume having directed and performed in numerous professional productions all over the country. As an educator and scholar, he created a Black Theatre curriculum for Northwestern University, Notre Dame, and Northern Vermont University. Green is a New England Foundation for the Arts National Theatre Project Advisor and is a founding member of the Black Theatre Artist Council at the Roundabout Theatre Company in New York. He is thrilled to be making his Dartmouth Department of Theater directing debut! Fall 2020 Jane Shaw jane_shaw_baranova-1115-high.jpg Jane Shaw: Sound Designer, Faith Hope and Charity. Jane Shaw has designed and composed for over 300 productions of theater and dance since 1998. New York credits include I Was Most Alive With You (Playwrights Horizons), Actually (Manhattan Theatre Club), Measure for Measure (Theatre for a New Audience), Blood (National Black Theatre), Ironbound (Women's Project, Rattlestick), The World is Round (Ripe Time), Food and Fadwa (New York Theatre Workshop), In the Time of the Butterflies (Repertorio Español), and over thirty productions with the Mint. Regional credits include Vanity Fair (Shakespeare Theatre Company, Washington DC and ACT, San Francisco), The Engagement Party (Hartford Stage), They Promised Her the Moon (Old Globe) as well as productions at Cleveland Play House, Mark Taper Forum, Cincinnati Playhouse on the Park, Milwaukee Rep, Asolo Rep, Triad Stage, Capital Rep, Arena Stage, Dorset Theatre Festival and Williamstown Theatre Festival. Ms. Shaw has very much enjoyed designing down the road at Northern Stage, with productions including Oslo, Dear Elizabeth, Disgraced, Living Together and the New York premiere of Only Yesterday. She is a proud member of USA 829 and a founding member and co-Secretary of TSDCA (Theatrical Sound Designers and Composers Association). She has been honored with awards including a Drama Desk, Bessie, Henry, Premios Asociación de Cronistas del Espectáculo (2012), TCG Career Development Grant, and two Connecticut Critics Circle Awards. She was nominated for three Lortels, two Drama Desks and an Elliot Norton Award. Raised in Kansas and living now in Brooklyn, Ms. Shaw is a graduate of Harvard College and the Yale School of Drama. She is currently making her directing debut in New York City with the Mint's production of Michael, one of two plays in the company's evening Chekhov/Tolstoy: Love Stories. Summer 2020 Niegel Smith smith_niegel_7-2020.jpg Niegel Smith '02: Director, Frost & Dodd Student Play Festival (Frost Performances) Niegel is a Bessie Award winning theater director and performance artist. He is the Artistic Director of NYC's Obie Award winning theater, The Flea; board member of A.R.T./New York; and ringleader of Willing Participant an artistic activist organization. His theater work has been produced by The Alley, The Barbican, Goodman Theatre, HERE Arts Center, Hip Hop Theatre Festival, Magic Theatre, The Melbourne Festival, Mixed Blood, New York Fringe Festival, New York Live Arts, Phoenix Theatre Ensemble, Playwrights Horizons, Pomegranate Arts, The Public Theater, St. Ann's Warehouse, Summer Play Festival and Under the Radar, and his participatory walks and performances have been produced by Abrons Arts Center, American Realness, Dartmouth College, Elastic City, The Invisible Dog, Jack, The New Museum, Prelude Festival, PS 122, the Van Alen Institute and Visual AIDS. He often collaborates with playwright/performer Taylor Mac and with artist Todd Shalom. Smith was co-director of the critically acclaimed 'A 24-Decade History of Popular Music', winner of the Kennedy Prize in Drama, the Edwin Booth Award and a Pulitzer Prize finalist. Before surviving high school in Detroit, Niegel grew up in the North Carolina piedmont, fishing with his dad, shopping with his mom and inventing tall-tale fantasies with his two younger brothers. www.niegelsmith.com Summer 2020 Alek Deva alek_deva_0.jpeg Alek Deva: Video Editor, Frost & Dodd Student Play Festival. Alek creates music, sound, and video for stories and storytelling, with a particular interest in live events. Work includes: Oslo (projection design, Northern Stage), Dear Elizabeth (projection design, Northern Stage), A Doll's House (sound design & original music, Northern Stage), Macbeth (video design, Northern Stage, directed by Stephen Brown-Fried), Fences (sound design & original music, JAG Productions), The Mountaintop (sound design & original music, Northern Stage), 4000 Miles (sound design & original music, Shaker Bridge Theatre), Resfeber (original music & direction, modern dance piece), The Sweetest Land (original score, documentary film). As Technical Director for Black Ink Presents: Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: Music from the Studio Ghibli Films of Hayao Miyazaki, La La Land in Concert, Love Actually in Concert, and Danny Eflman's Music from the Films of Tim Burton. Alek holds a degree in English with a focus in Poetry Writing from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In his free time, he enjoys reading, studying Ancient Greek, and making terrible puns. Winter 2020 Jennifer Reiser '09 headshot_1.jpg Jennifer Reiser: Lighting Designer, Sweet Science of Bruising. Jennifer is a lighting designer for theater, dance, opera, and events. Recent designs include: Byhalia, Mississippi (The Kennedy Center), Rusalka (Madison Opera), world premieres of MASC and GAY GUERRILLA with MADBOOTS DANCE (The Joyce Theater), Oslo; Dear Elizabeth; Venus Rising (Northern Stage), Wild Honey; The Hairy Ape; Girl of the Golden West (THEATREWORKS), West Side Story; The 39 Steps; Gypsy (New London Barn Playhouse), The Late Wedding; 1001 (Columbia University), Reread Another (Target Margin Theater). She was the associate lighting designer on the Broadway production of Ink and the assistant lighting designer on the Broadway productions of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Waitress, and Side Show. B.A. Dartmouth College, M.F.A. NYU-Tisch Fall 2019/Winter 2020 Paul West west_paul.jpg Paul West: Fight Choreographer, Sweet Science of Bruising and Red Speedo. Paul is a native of Vermont who studied in California and spent years on the west coast regional theater circuit; favorite roles from that period included Alan in Picnic at the Sacramento Theatre Company and Bill in Down the Road at the Pacific Repertory Theatre. He then moved back east to NYC and later to Washington DC, where he spent three years in the role of Tony Whitcomb in Shear Madness at the Kennedy Center. Since returning to Vermont, Paul has appeared as Frank N. Furter in The Rocky Horror Picture Show at Pentangle Arts and in A Christmas Carol, The Little Mermaid, and Oslo at Northern Stage. Fall 2019 David Remedios remedios.jpg David Remedios: Sound Designer, The Living. David has previously designed Don Juan Comes Back from the War, In the Next Room (or, the vibrator play) and Angels in America: Millennium Approaches for Dartmouth College. Recent credits include The Clean House (Portland Stage), A Welcome Guest and Wrecked (Contemporary American Theater Festival), The Haunted Life (Merrimack Repertory Theatre), The Burdens (City Theatre Company), and (Alley Theatre). David's work has been heard regionally at Trinity Repertory Company, 59E59, Geva Theatre Center, Huntington Theatre Company, Studio Theatre, Theatre for a New Audience, CenterStage Baltimore, La Jolla Playhouse, Cincinnati Playhouse, and American Repertory Theatre (50 productions), among many others. Awards: Independent Reviewers of New England, Connecticut Critics' Circle, Elliot Norton Award. David is Assistant Professor and Program Head of Sound Design at Boston University's School of Theatre. remediossound.com. Fall 2019 Brian Sekinger sekinger.jpeg Brian Sekinger: Stage Management Advisor, The Living/Red Speedo. Regional: A Doll's House Part 2, Once, Venus Rising, Matilda, Dear Elizabeth, Oslo, Noises Off, Disgraced, Disney's The Little Mermaid, Christmas Carol (Northern Stage), Catch Me If You Can, Peter and the Starcatcher, Disney's Newsies, Little Women, On Golden Pond, West Side Story, Godspell, How to Succeed, Crazy For You (New London Barn Playhouse), Mary Stuart (Folger Shakespeare), Stoop Stories (Studio Theatre), August Wilson's 20th Century (Kennedy Center). NYC: Cleopatra: The New Pop Experience (Theater for the New City), Daddy Long Legs (Davenport Theatricals), Claudio Quest (NYMF), Zombies on Broadway (RKO Stage), Sheila's Day (Lincoln Center Education), (Prospect Theater). MFA: Carnegie Mellon University. briansekinger.com Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback