Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Theater and Performance Studies Applicant Information Related Links About Contact Information Dance Studies Yale Dance Lab Website Musical Theater Production Programs & Courses Theater Studies Senior Project Season Senior Project Productions World Performance Projects (WPP) News People Faculty Staff Students Resources Welcome In the news Marc Robinson named Malcolm G. Chace ’56 Professor February 24, 2022 Marc Robinson, a leading theater critic whose work has illuminated the history of drama and performance in the United States, has been appointed the Malcolm G. Chace ’56... Emily Coates will be a guest speaker with Amelia Jones in a conversation hosted by Richard Schechner on December 8 at 12 pm EST. December 3, 2021 The subject of the conversation – living archives – is related to TDR’s upcoming issue and an essay Coates contributed titled “Yvonne Rainer’s Archive... Prospective Applicant Information Session December 3, 2021 Join us from 2-3:30 on Sunday, December 12th to learn about the program and major in Theater and Performance Studies (TAPS). At the top of the session, we’ll tell you about... PANDEMONIUM: A Senior Project in TAPS for Ale Campillo, Cassandra Hsiao, and Noelle Mercer September 28, 2021 PANDEMONIUM is a theater studies thesis project for Ale Campillo, Cassandra Hsiao & Noelle Mercer. This immersive performance piece inspired by J.M. Barrie’s Peter Pan... Professor Shane Vogel, Interview on "Waiting for Godot" in The Atlantic September 22, 2021 ‘What If the Thing You’re Waiting for Never Arrives?’ Waiting for Godot is a classic that feels like it was written for the Delta era of the pandemic. click here for full... Nathan Roberts, Production Manager and Lecturer in Theater and Performance Studies, created the original music and sound design for the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival production of Shakespeare’s The Tempest (playing now through Sept. 4). August 12, 2021 GARRISON, N.Y. — Prospero’s grievance has been gnawing at him a dozen years when at last he speaks of it to his teenage daughter, Miranda, explaining how they were forced... Yale Theater and Performance Studies: Information Session and Q&A for Prospective Students and Prospective Majors March 15, 2021 Sunday, April 25th from 1-2:30 pm EST Join us to learn about the program and major in Theater and Performance Studies (TAPS). At the top of the session, we’ll tell you about... Tavia Nyong’o appointed William Lampson Professor March 3, 2021 Tavia Nyong’o, the newly appointed William Lampson Professor of Theater and Performance Studies, Professor of American Studies, and Professor of African American Studies, ... Info Session: ASE Summer Theatre School in Bath, England-Tuesday, February 16 from 4-5 pm February 9, 2021 Meet Siouxsie Easter and Jonathan Hope of the ASE Summer Theatre School in Bath, England to learn about ASE’s exceptional courses and faculty, as well as the cultural... TAPS Students and Faculty featured in Yale Daily News Article February 5, 2021 INSIGHT: Rebuilding a Backstage A second act for student productions through Zoom When the lights came up on “The Family Showcase” on Nov. 17, the virtual audience saw two... Yale Theater and Performance Studies: Information Session and Q&A for Prospective Students and Prospective Majors December 22, 2020 Sunday, February 14th, 1-2:30 pm EST via Zoom Join us to learn about the program and major in Theater and Performance Studies (TAPS). At the top of the session, we’ll... The Family Showcase: A Senior Project for Iragi Nkera and Saphia Suarez November 12, 2020 The Family Showcase examines the effects of migration and generational trauma in the Black family through the eyes of the Black child. It reckons with the more insidious... Shen Curriculum Turns 15! August 13, 2020 The Shen Curriculum turns fifteen this fall. To celebrate this milestone – and to raise awareness of the unique breadth, depth and success of this Yale initiative, we have... Gregory Wallace named Lloyd Richards Professor in the Practice of Acting July 24, 2020 Congratulations to faculty member Gregory Wallace who has been named the Lloyd Richards Professor in the Practice of Acting. James Bundy, Dean and Artistic Director of the... A Letter to the Theater and Performance Studies Community at Yale July 1, 2020 Originally published June 16, 2020 Dear Theater and Performance Studies community, This spring and summer have brought cataclysmic national tragedy alongside extremely... Further Reading on Black Lives Matter July 1, 2020 Angela Davis, Freedom is A Constant Struggle James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time (with study guide) Christina Sharpe, In The Wake: On Blackness and Being Keeanga-Yamahtta... Courses in Theater and Performance Studies (Spring 2022) Dear TAPS Students, Please click this link to find an in-depth overview of all the courses offered by TAPS, and also courses that we cross-list with. Included are the attributes they fulfil (old and new curriculum), the meeting time and more. There are also important notes, suggestions and tips included. Please review this material. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Theater and Performance Studies | 220 York Street, Rm 102 | New Haven, CT 06520 Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube