Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange For Prospective Students An Honors Project: Carene Mekertichyan ’16 An honors project: Kelleen Moriarty ‘19 Share The Honors Thesis An honors thesis provides an opportunity to deepen skills and knowledge in an area in which the student has already demonstrated the ability to produce distinguished work. "Suspended" an original work written and performed by Brooke Goldner '19 as part of her Honor Thesis project. Photo Rob Strong. Clara Batchelder ’19 and Owen O'Leary performing in "The Glass Menagerie", directed by Kelleen Moriarty ’19 as her Honors Thesis project. Photo Rob Strong. Annie Furman '19 performing her original piece "Water Horse" at the Dartmouth Riding Center as part of her Honors Thesis project. Photo Rob Strong. Claire Feuille '18 performing in "Away This Night", an Honors Thesis project conceived, designed, and co-directed by Julie Solomon '17. Photo Rob Strong. Carene Mekertichyan ’16 performing as the Lady in Red, in her Honors Thesis performance of "For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide...". Photo Rob Strong. PreviousNext Honors Program Details The Honors Thesis An honors thesis in the Department of Theater provides an opportunity to deepen skills and knowledge in an area in which the student has already demonstrated the ability to produce distinguished work. Students who have completed at least five major courses and who have an average in the major of 3.4 or higher (and a College average of 3.0 or higher) are eligible to apply for the Honors Program. Students with modified as well as standard majors may apply. An Honors project normally extends through two terms and receives two major credits. Possible honors projects include: A written academic thesis An original full-length play with a supporting paper A realized production with a supporting paper A design project with a supporting paper Honors theses that are primarily creative in scope will include an academic component, which will typically consist of a reflective and analytical essay, approximately 15-18 pages in length. All thesis students will also produce a bound document for the Rauner library that includes the essay as well as additional documentation of the honors thesis project, as determined in consultation with the thesis advisor. Note: The supporting paper will become mandatory starting with the Class of '22. Honors program details Proposing an honors thesis Note that the proposal process is divided into two parts: Step 1: The preliminary proposal, which is due in May of the student's junior year. Step 2: The full proposal, which is due the first week of the fall term. Students must complete both steps in order to pursue an honors thesis. PRELIMINARY PROPOSAL **NOTE: The deadline for Class of 2023 preliminary honors proposals will be Friday, May 20, 2022** Please email your proposal to the Academic Coordinator The preliminary proposal is an opportunity for the Faculty to provide the Honors candidate with initial feedback on their ideas in the spring of their junior year, in order to help them develop a more complete proposal during the summer. Preliminary proposals should be developed in conversation with a faculty member who could ultimately serve as an advisor for the project. You should initiate these conversations no later than the very beginning of the spring term. Preliminary proposals should include the following: A brief description of your project A project rationale, built around the following questions: Why are you proposing this project? How does it help you to fulfill your educational goals? How will this project build upon your prior academic experiences as well as challenge you in new and unique ways? Why does this project require an honors thesis (two-term) commitment versus other production or curricular opportunities? An estimate of the resources that your project will require (number of actors, director, space requirements, etc). A typical preliminary proposal is between two and three pages in length. The faculty will provide feedback on your preliminary proposal during the end-of-year meetings that we have with all of our junior students, which are traditionally scheduled at the very end of the spring term. The Department does not vote on preliminary proposals; we understand and expect that your concept and plans will not yet be fully defined at this early stage. FULL PROPOSAL **NOTE: The deadline for Class of 2023 honors proposals will be Friday, September 16, 2022** Please email your proposal to the Academic Coordinator Students should work closely with their honors thesis advisor to develop their Honors Thesis proposal. Final proposals are typically due the Friday of the first week of fall term classes. Proposals will be evaluated based on the originality and depth of the project, the quality of the proposal, and the student's prior record of accomplishment. The faculty also seeks to balance the student's educational aims with the available resources of the department. Students who prepare for an Honors project by pursuing approved courses of advanced independent study may, with approval of the Department, be allowed to complete the project (thesis) in one term. Students in the Honors Program must complete the ten courses required for the standard or modified major; the Honors credits are in addition to the ten-course major. Students may complete the ten-course major simultaneously with the Honors thesis: the ten-course major does not necessarily have to be completed before the honors work has begun. For reference, students may view our Honors Thesis proposal template . Examples of successful honors thesis proposals are also available from the Department's Academic Coordinator. For additional information, students should consult with the Chair of the Department of Theater. Wrapping up We do not have formal “defenses” in our department; however, the end-of year-meetings that the faculty holds with each senior provide an opportunity in which the student can reflect on what they learned during the honors thesis process. Academic projects are required to be turned into Rauner library; the due date will be determined by the student’s advisor. We also strongly encourage students with creative projects to develop portfolios of their projects to ensure archival documentation of their work. Note: These portfolios with a reflective essay will become mandatory starting with the Class of ’22. Evaluation According to College policy, students must achieve at least a B+ average in the work of the Honors Program in order to earn Honors in their major. Students who receive less than a B+ will still earn academic credit for their work. At the end of the academic year, the faculty will also vote on whether to award the student “high honors.” Although the faculty feels strongly that receiving “honors” is already a mark of excellence, we will consider awarding “high honors” to those projects that demonstrate 1) sustained dedication across the two terms, 2) originality and boldness of creative vision and/or ideas, and 3) thoughtfulness and care in the execution of the project—all of which will add up to outstanding artistic and/or academic work that goes above and beyond our expectations. For creative projects, the faculty will also take into account the student’s collaborative demeanor with peers, staff, and faculty. Even though the department will seek to honor the student’s vision in the execution of the project, flexibility is crucial given the nature of our art form. Examples Past Honors Thesis Projects The following examples of theses were selected to show the range of what theater students have accomplished through our honors program. This is by no means an exhaustive list of the many remarkable projects our students have accomplished over the years. Julie Solomon ’17: Away This Night, a fully-produced production conceived, designed, and co-directed by Solomon. Inspired by immersive and feminist theatre traditions, the project was a study of the intersections of gender identity, gender presentation, race, sexuality, and ability in physical space. The performance on the Moore Stage moved throughout three built environments designed by Solomon, taking the audience on a journey through the worlds of As You Like It, Twelfth Night, and The Merchant of Venice. Carene Mekertichyan ’15: a fully produced production of For Colored Girls who have Considered Suicide When The Rainbow is Enuf by Ntozake Shange. Mekertichyan served as the dramaturg and assistant director; she also performed the role of the Lady in Red. As part of her dramaturgical research, Mekertichyan compiled a production history of the play and studied contemporary black performance theory to inform her understandings of how this play, originally premiered in 1974, speaks to the present. Stew Towle ’12: “Walt 1855 - Performing a Democratic Poetics: A Work of the American Bard Project”. This project consisted of two components: 1) a performance installation text that explored the theatricality and vision of Whitman's 1855 edition of Leaves of Grass, 2) an academic thesis that addressed the theatricality of Whitman’s poetry and the radical democracy of his vision, as well as a theoretical analysis of his own performance installation. Matthew Cohn ’08: “An Ethics of Acting: Alain Badiou, The Character-Subject and the American Method.” This academic thesis used the philosophy of Alain Badiou as a theoretical lens to examine and interpret the writings of Lee Strasberg, Stella Adler and Sanford Meisner, focusing on how they approach the task of creating a character as a discrete—though fictional—truth-producing subject. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback