Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Read more about the e-term: Student Testimonials Share Experiential Learning with Northern Stage One of the region's foremost professional theater companies, Northern Stage enjoys an close and collaborative working relationship with the Dartmouth Department of Theater. Winter 2020 E-Termers Holden Harris '20, Lexi Warden '21, and Kate Budney '21 with fellow King Lear cast members Rob Grant and Damian Thompson. Winter 2020 E-Termer Stella Asa '22 performing the role of Cordelia; with Professor Jamie Horton as King Lear. (L to R) Kerrigan Quenemoen '20 and Sam West '20 performing at Northern Stage during their Fall 2018 E-term experience. Photo Rob Strong. Located minutes away from the Dartmouth campus, Northern Stage is one of the region's foremost professional theater companies. Stpehanie Everett '19 appeared in Northern Stage's production of "The Little Mermaid" during her Fall 2017 e-term experience. PreviousNext Call for Applicants The Northern Stage E-Term, Spring 2022 Please note: due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic situation, Northern Stage's spring 2022 programming remains subject to change at this point. We are delighted to announce that an Experiential Learning "E-Term" program opportunity will be offered once again in the spring of 2022. Up to three applicants may be selected for the spring program. The students will be housed with the Northern Stage Company, trained for 10-12 weeks in all aspects of the professional theater, and take part in Northern Stage's Mainstage season. Spring E-term students will be mentored by the Northern Stage Artistic and Managing Directors, company members, and guests. The goal of the E-Term is to connect students' academic and practical training at Dartmouth to a career in the professional theater. Students will have the opportunity to assist in all areas of the theater including Artistic Direction, Education, Marketing, Development and Management; specific assignments will vary from student to student, depending on individual areas of interest. E-term students will also be guided to fulfill a Passion Project: individual projects nurtured by staff, which may include performance pieces and playwriting. E-Term students may earn Equity Membership Candidate (EMC) points towards joining Actor's Equity, the national union for professional actors and stage managers. SPRING E-TERM TIMELINE August 6, 2021: Spring 2022 E-Term application window closes August/September 2021: Students are selected for E-Term project. In order to participate, students must be on an off-term in Spring 2022. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic situation, Northern Stage's spring 2022 programming remains subject to change at this point. Below is an updated draft of what the spring season may look like: March 2022 (on or around 3/24): E-Term students travel to Northern Stage and begin their admin duties and passion projects. March 25: Students involved in Spamalot begin rehearsals. March 25-May 22: Spamalot in rehearsal and performance. May 22-June 8: BridgeUp Shakespeare in the Schools project, New Play development During the runs of Spamalot and the BridgeUp project, E-term students not directly involved with the productions will continue their work in other areas of Northern Stage's company as well as their passion projects. The Spring 2022 E-Term ends either with the end of the Northern Stage 2022 Season on May 22 or at the conclusion of the BridgeUp project on June 8. APPLICATION PROCESS The application deadline for the Fall E-Term is August 6, 2021. Please visit the Northern Stage website for more details, and/or CLICK HERE to begin the application process. PLEASE NOTE: Your application will not be processed until it is complete. For further information about internship opportunities at Northern Stage, please contact Northern Stage BOLD Artistic Fellow Kerrigan Quenemoen '19. About the Northern Stage E-Term The collaborative relationship between Dartmouth College and Northern Stage, a professional regional theater in White River Junction, Vermont provides Dartmouth theater students with extraordinary access to a nationally renowned theater company. Located just minutes from the Dartmouth campus, Northern Stage's Artistic Director Carol Dunne is a Senior Lecturer with the Theater Department. The close relationship between Northern Stage and Dartmouth College affords students the opportunity to work and learn in a professional theater environment, providing them with invaluable real-world artistic and non-profit administrative experiences that will help determine their professional creative paths into the future. Off-term experiential learning internships, called e-terms, have been available to Dartmouth students since 2016. E-termers are exposed to all aspects of the professional theater, but they may choose to focus in acting, directing, production and/or arts administration. The e-term is an immersive experience; students live with the Northern Stage company and are fully integrated into the daily life of the organization, working alongside creative professionals and appearing onstage with nationally renowned artists. Video of i3KVtHTGoeU In addition to the e-term, a post-graduate one-year internship is available to help recent graduates navigate the transition into real-life theatrical careers and launch them into the industry. Dartmouth theater students also benefit from discounted theatre tickets and course-related events and master classes with the creative artists of Northern Stage. "The journey to a career in the theater is made much smoother for students who are given the firm foundation of real world professional experience," said Northern Stage Artistic Director and Dartmouth Senior Lecturer Carol Dunne in 2016. "Dartmouth has one of the most expansive theater departments in the Ivy League, and our relationship with Northern Stage deepens our students' understanding of and ability to create theater for the future." For more information about internship opportunities at Northern Stage, please contact Northern Stage BOLD Artistic Fellow Kerrigan Quenemoen '19. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback