Arts NC State Buy Tickets Visit Facilities Support the Arts News University Theatre MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Series Producing Series TheatreFEST Strictly Speaking The WRIGHT Way How to Theatre Archived Series UT Beyond UT Out Loud Argo Devised 2020 Participate Audition Cast and Crew Backstage & Shops Student Employment Suggest a Title Student Listserv Alpha Psi Omega Academics Venues Theatres Stewart Theatre Titmus Theater Kennedy-McIlwee Studio Theatre Rental Information Accessibility Services Directions and Parking Student Employment About Fast Facts Our Mission History Equity Diversity & Inclusion Contact News Past Productions People Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Alpha Psi Omega Friends of ANCS Contact Calendar Support TheatreFEST TheatreFEST returns with a BANG this summer as we move to be Raleigh’s hub for summer theatre by connecting makers, companies, educators, and patrons to celebrate and advance live theatre in Raleigh. With dozens of theatrical experiences centered around the production of Assassins, TheatreFEST has something for everyone! Click on the various buttons below to discover how you can participate. Assassins Insight Foresight Hindsight Away Home Now Playing TheatreFESTival Mosaic Quick Scripts Book by JOHN WEIDMAN | Music and Lyrics by STEPHEN SONDHEIM Based on an idea by CHARLES GILBERT JR. Directed by DANICA JACKSON | Musical Direction by DIANE C. PETTEWAY Produced by special arrangement with Music Theatre International Stephen Sondheim and John Weidmans’ controversial musical, Assassins, scrutinizes the lives and motivations of nine individuals who killed (or tried to kill) various presidents of the United States. This multiple Tony Award-winning dark comedy explores the human need for acknowledgment versus the American need for celebrity, amplified by the frustrated desires of those who crossed a terrifying threshold. Show Times 7:30pm Nightly | June 2-4, 9-11, 16-18 2:00pm Sunday Matinees | June 5, 12, 19 Community Night (All seats $20) | Friday, June 3 Closed Captioning Each performance will be closed captioned. Audio Description Available upon request. Call 919.515.3927 or send an email to universitytheatre@ncsu.edu. Themes Connection, Disaffection, Validation Content Warnings Gun Violence, Murder, Suicide, Adult Language, Use of non-firing Prop Guns Assassins Tickets | $12-$32 Experience theatre being made in real time. Participants may choose from a rehearsal, design, or backstage track guided by UT staff for insight into the process of bringing Assassins to the stage. Choose one, two, or all three! Rehearsal Track Show More Mia Self will sneak you into the rehearsal hall for a glimpse of a live rehearsal of Assassins. Spend twenty-minutes observing director Danica Jackson and the cast working on bringing the show to life. Participants will then move to the Kennedy-McIlwee Studio Theatre for a 30-minute interactive discussion with Mia about the process of rehearsals and making Theatre. Design Track Show More The creative team invites you to a one-hour intimate show-and-tell conversation about creating the world of Assassins. Led by Mia Self, participants will be able to see the scenic, costume, and lighting designers’ early work concepts, sketches and research, ask questions about the process, and talk about how theatre is made. Rehearsal Track Design Track May 8, 2022 May 20, 2022 3pm-4pm 7pm-8pm Rehearsal Track Tickets | $12 Design Track Tickets | $12 Limited to 12 participants per track Before seeing the evening’s performance of Assassins, join UT’s Mia Self, local theatre journalists, and select members of the creative team for a casual, one-hour pre-show conversation about Assassins; its history, structure, themes, and its relevance today. This experience includes a ticket to Assassins. June 4, 12, and 17 | 6pm-7pm Limited to 12 tickets per show. Tickets: SHOW + ForeSIGHT | $24-$44 Ever walked away from a show wanting to know more about it after you’ve seen it? Join Mia Self, who, together with a small group of audience members, will chat with director Danica Jackson and select actors from the cast in an intimate, one-hour post-show discussion. This experience includes a ticket to Assassins. June 4, 12, and 17 | following the performance Limited to 12 tickets per show. Tickets: SHOW + HindSIGHT | $24-$44 Honest Pint Theatre Company is excited to present the first “workshop offering” of a new work-in-progress. Playwright and North Carolina Piedmont Laureate Tamara Kissane and composer/lyricist Matthew Hager have written this new offering of musical theatre based on the legend of Franz Kafka and the doll story. Get a glimpse of a diverse cast of talented actors and musicians developing a new musical work, directed by UT’s Mia Self, and be among the first to preview snippets of the show, all leading up to a full-scale production in 2023 Show Dates & Times June 10 | 7:00pm June 11 | 2:00pm Kennedy-McIlwee Studio Theatre Free Tickets Here Are you one of those movie goers that must arrive early to see the previews? We are too! University Theatre has invited our neighbors to tell you about themselves, and for some companies, perform a snippet of what they are working on this summer. During the pre-show of select evening performances of Assassins, we hope you will enjoy hearing what is playing at a theatre near you. Preview Times 7:10 pm – 7:30pm Titmus Theatre Scene Partners Show Less Pure Life Theatre Company Honest Pint Theatre Co. Justice Theatre Project June 2 June 3 June 4 North Raleigh Arts and Creative Theatre Raleigh Little Theatre Burning Coal Theatre Co. June 9 June 10 June 11 North Carolina Theatre TBD Theatre Raleigh June 16 June 17 June 18 Dates and companies are subject to change without notice TheatreFESTival is a casual open house experience where the community is invited backstage to see the magic behind live performance. Choose from an extensive list of ongoing events, creating your own custom experience. Drop in for an interview with the actors, head backstage for a guided tour of the sets, or join our designers to learn more about their process. Local theatre companies will also be on site with information about their upcoming seasons, and giveaways! June 11 | 1-4pm Frank Thompson Hall Free Registration Coming June 1 Show Date & Time June 17 | 6:30pm Kennedy-McIlwee Studio Theatre In this first public staging of a new one-woman show, emerging artist and NC State alumna Dani Coan shares her coming of age story exploring themes of sexuality, family, anorexia, and self-love. Themes Sexuality, family, eating disorders, self-love, and storytelling Content Warnings Eating disorders and addiction Pay What You Can “Pay What You Can” donations directly benefit Mosaic supporting artists and creators. Minimum $1.00 Given only a prompt and 24-hours total prep time, four writers, directors, casts and production teams write, rehearse, produce and perform four plays, culminating in an evening of 10-minute plays. June 18 | 8pm Kennedy-McIlwee Studio Theatre QuickSCRIPTS Tickets | $10-$12 University Theatre is seeking playwrights, directors , and performers. For more information about how you can join the Quick Scripts Team, register below. Participant Registration Let us know what ideas you want to see on stage. Submit a prompt for our playwrights to write about. Submit a Prompt TheatreFEST is funded in part by the City of Raleigh based on recommendations of the Raleigh Arts Commission. TheatreFEST est financiado en parte por la Ciudad de Raleigh basado en recomendaciones de la Comision de Artes de Raleigh. University Theatre Thompson Hall 2241 Dunn Avenue Campus Box 7305 Raleigh NC 27695 Talley Student Union 2610 Cates Avenue Suite 2110 Campus Box 7306 Raleigh, NC 27695 universitytheatre@ncsu.edu Phone: 919.515.3927 Fax: 919.513.2988 Ticket Central: 919.515.1100 Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr YouTube Email Crafts Center Dance Program Gregg Museum of Art & Design Music Program NC State Live Ticket Central University Theatre About University Theatre Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index Search for: Subscribe to Our Newsletter © 2022 University Theatre | Log in