Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Ethically Ambiguous Alisya Reza'22 PreviousNext an Honors Thesis Production The Bentley Theater Friday, May 27 and Saturday, May 28 @ 8:00pm FREE; Please RSVP: HERE Ethically Ambiguous tells the story of a young girl's newfound obsession with sex — and how she's convinced she's going to hell for it. An original one-woman honors thesis about desire and shame as a woman of color. ALISYA REZA '22 playwright and performer is thrilled to make her solo show debut! Hopkins Center/Dartmouth College: The Bacchae (Dionysus); RENT (Alexi Darling, u/s Mimi); Katie O. '22's Seismic Change; Naomi L. '21's Family Style. Favorite non-acting credits: ASM for Next to Normal (JAG Productions); Intimacy Director for LIZZIE: The Musical (Hopkins Center); ASM for BUTA Poetic Healing Showcase; The Living (Hopkins Center). When not doing theater, you can find Alisya contemplating even more ethically ambiguous things through her second major in Cognitive Science. Love, love, love! @alisyareza KAT YEN director is a Taiwanese-American theater artist who has directed at Ars Nova, Cherry Lane, Ensemble Studio Theater, Bushwick Starr, JACK, The Flea Theater, New Ohio, and Harvard/A.R.T., amongst others. Recent productions include Marisol by José Rivera, The Juniors by Noah Diaz, Two Mile Hollow by Leah Nanako Winkler, Mr. Burns, A Post-Apocalyptic Play by Anne Washburn with music by Liam Bellman-Sharpe, and Othello. Upcoming productions include happy life by Kathy Ng and Fellowship by Sam Chanse. Kat is an alumnus of Lincoln Center Directors Lab, a former Resident Director at The Flea Theater, the 2016-2017 Van Lier Directing Fellow at Second Stage and the former Artistic Director of Spookfish Theatre Company. She is also a teaching artist at Stella Adler and LAByrinth Theater company and was recently an adjunct professor at Colgate University, Marymount Manhattan College, and University of Rochester. MFA Directing: Yale School of Drama. www.katyen.com / @katkoral FRANKIE CARR '22 scenic designer is very excited to be making his debut as a scenic designer! He has previously appeared as Clark in Naomi L. '21's Family Style. Frankie is a biology major and chemistry minor along with his theater minor, so you can find him running around between the LSC, Fairchild, and the Hop. Thanks to all who helped me get here! Stay tuned for what's next! BRANDY ZHANG '22 lighting designer is thrilled to be in her first show as a Lighting Designer after primarily working in stage management. Hopkins Center: RENT (Stage Manager); Piper Hill GR'22's A Show That Is a Game... (Stage Manager/Pianist); The Living (ASM); The Sweet Science of Bruising, Eclipsed (Light Board Operator). Brandy is a music major studying musicology and creating sound art! A huge thank you to her mentor Dan Kotlowitz! Big hugs and love to Alisya and the whole production team! @brandy__z ISAIAH BROWN '23 costume designer is excited for the world to see his first Costume Design work. Favorite non-design credits include: RENT (Tom Collins); Saturday Night/Sunday Morning (Bobby) (Hopkins Center). ROBBIE ABEL '24 sound designer is incredibly excited to be a part of this amazing production team. Robbie has previously been involved in LIZZIE: The Musical (Sound Design) and RENT (Sound Board Operator). Outside of theater, Robbie is studying Film and Media Studies, and enjoys studying in the percussion studio. He would like to thank Alisya for inviting him to be a part of this project. @robbie_abel ARMITA MIRKARIMI '25 stage manager is beyond excited to make her Dartmouth stage management debut! Hopkins Center credits include Poor Clare (Mama Ortolana) and RENT (Assistant Stage Manager). Armita is also a playwright: she is the 2022 winner of the Ruth and Loring Dodd Drama Prize and is producing an original play with a California-based theater company. You can find Armita with a copy of Jane Austen's Emma on the green when she is not in the theater. This production contains deals with sex, sexual assault, and strong language. Not recommended to audiences under the age of 16. Saturday, May 28th The Bentley Theater After the Show: A Conversation with Alisya and the Creative Team Join us in the theater immediately following the evening's performance for an informal discussion with the playwright and performer, Alisya Reza '22, and the team behind Ethically Ambiguous. Tags: Honors Thesis Projects , Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions , Student Productions & Projects Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback