Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Upcoming auditions: The Virtuous Fall of the Girls from Our Lady of Sorrows Spotlight on: Cabaret rehearsals, Fall 2017 Share Performing at Dartmouth Opportunities to take the stage abound in the Department of Theater throughout the year. MainStage productions, honors thesis performances, and student-driven projects all offer students the chance to perform. Amari Young '21 performing in "Citrus", Spring 2018. Photo Rob Strong. Kerrigan Quenemoen '20 and Owen Page '19 in "1984", Winter 2018. Photo Rob Strong. Edward Lu '21 in "Cabaret", Fall 2017. Photo Rob Strong. Virginia Ogden '18 in "Cabaret", Fall 2018. Photo Eli Burakian. hannah Montgomery '21 in "Medea", Fall 2018. Photo Rob Strong. PreviousNext Winter 2022 UPCOMING PERFORMANCE OPPORTUNITIES Thursday-Friday, January 6-7: Auditions for the winter 2022 MainStage production of Rent. More info here! Saturday and Sunday, January 15-16: Auditions for Rivka's Reading Rainbow!, the winter term Studio Lab project. CLICK HERE for details. Monday January 24: Auditions for a staged reading of The Virtuous Fall of the Girls from Our Lady of Sorrows. CLICK HERE for details. Thuesday-Friday, January 27-28: Auditions for a workshop production of Brighton Beach Memoirs. CLICK HERE for details. About Performing at Dartmouth Auditions take place during the first week of classes each term for our MainStage productions and/or for the many student productions that take place throughout the year: Honors Thesis projects, student workshops or full productions, Studio Lab projects, Frost & Dodd Student Play Festival readings and staged productions, and more. Upcoming audition details are typically posted in Shakespeare Alley and announced via this website, as well as via campus-wide eblast, the department's e-newsletter (click here to be added to that email list!) and on the department's Facebook page. Callback information and final cast lists are typically distributed by email and/or posted in Shakespeare Alley. Department auditions are open to all undergraduates, regardless of either previous theater experience or major; both first-year students and non-majors appear in department productions regularly. Sometime during the first week of each term, the Department of Theater hosts a Theater Showcase in the Bentley Theater. Open to all students, the Showcase is an opportunity for students across campus to learn what performance opportunities are available in that term. We also believe that performers must be invested in creating their own opportunities, taking an active role in the creation of the projects that they are passionate about and want to be involved with. We strongly encourage student performers not to wait for the "right" part, but instead to get involved in producing their own work. Opportunities exist for both majors and non-major performers to create and drive their own performance projects via the various student production tracks: YourSpace, Studio Lab, and/or student workshops or full productions. Click here for more information about student productions. Those interested in academic courses in performance have a range of classes to choose from each term, including Acting I & II, Acting for Musical Theater I & II, Acting Comedy, and/or Speaking Voice for the Stage. A complete listing of performance course descriptions can be found HERE. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback