Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Student Funding Opportunities Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting VoxFest 2021 View the full performance schedule More about Vox Theater Close-up on VoxFest 2017 Share VoxLab: Dartmouth Alumni Create Innovative New Works A week-long theater residency held each summer, VoxLab brings Dartmouth alumni back to campus in order to develop and incubate innovative new theatrical projects alongside current students and faculty. A performance of Outlaw, VoxFest 2018. Photo Rob Strong. VoxFest 2018 in rehearsal. Photo Rob Strong. A performance of Book Club, VoxFest 2017. Photo Rob Strong. The 2017 VoxFest Company of alumni, current students, and faculty. Photo Rob Strong. Student Gricelda Ramos '18 in rehearsal with alumni, VoxFest 2017. Photo Rob Strong. PreviousNext About the Festival VoxLab Founded under the original title of "VoxFest" in 2013 by Matthew Cohn '08, Kate Mulley '05, and Thom Pasculli '05, VoxLab is a laboratory and a performance platform for the development of the daring, the innovative, and the unique. Dartmouth alumni spend a week in residence on campus, workshopping current projects and works-in-progress alongside current students and faculty. With a focus on devised theater and the experimental performance experience, VoxLab offers current students the opportunity to immerse themselves in contemporary theatrical practices and trends. Current students participate in Voxlab as part of THEA 65: Summer Theater Lab, a remarkable and unique academic class offered by the Department of Theater each summer that also includes performance and production work on the Frost/Dodd Playwriting Festival and the New York Theater Workshop. More on recent VoxLab Seasons: VoxFest 2020 VoxFest 2019 VoxFest 2018 VoxFest 2017 Current VoxLab producers are Nicolle Allen '16, Matthew Cohn '08, Emma Orme '15, and Mykel Nairne '16. The 9th annual festival About the VoxLab 2021 Production Team nicolle_allen_headshot.jpg Nicolle Allen '16 is a tailor and costume designer based in New York City. She works in TV, Film, and Theater. Most recently as a tailor at SNL and on the film remake of West Side Story. cohn_matthew_0974_xret.jpg Matthew Cohn '08 is a New York-based, interdisciplinary artist. His work combines printmaking, photography, text, music, and sculpture in the pursuit of creating new theatrical forms. He is also an actor and narrator. He is the Co-Founder and Executive Director of Vox Theater. emma_orme_headshot.jpg Emma Orme '15 is a Brooklyn-based performer and producer with a focus on new theatrical work. Producing credits include: Time Out Critics' Pick Brief Chronicle, Books 6-8 (i am a slow tide); NYT Critics' Pick Red Emma & The Mad Monk (The Tank); Flea Fridays & SERIALS (The Flea); Polylogues (Dixon Place); and NYT Critics' Pick AGNES (Lesser America). Performance credits include: The Daughters and Black Dick [readings] (New York Theatre Workshop); Tongue Depressor (Weasel Festival @ The Public Theater); Bad Penny and LOCKED UP BITCHES (The Flea); Napoli, Brooklyn [reading] and Song For A Future Generation (Williamstown Theatre Festival); and The Bacchae (LaMama Experimental Theatre). She is currently the Artistic Producer of VoxFest, works in the Development Departments of Williamstown Theatre Festival and Media Art Xploration, and worked as a video producer for The New York Times and the documentary The Keptocrats. mykel_nairne_16_square.jpeg Mykel Nairne '16 is a Brooklyn-based dance artist and arts administrator. Born and raised in NYC, I studied dance at Alvin Ailey for 14 years, where I was a fellowship student. I graduated from Dartmouth with a BA in Film & Media Studies in 2016 and have since collaborated on works that range from experimental theater, as a performer in OKLAHOMA! (Daniel Fish, St. Ann's Warehouse); to performance art, as a dancer in The Master and Form at the 2019 Whitney Biennial (Brendan Fernandes, Whitney Museum of American Art). I currently perform with Dance Heginbotham and am a Development Fellow at Pentacle and Kyle Marshall Choreography. https://mykelmarainairne.com/ Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback