Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Spotlight on Recent Student Productions Now OnStage: Upcoming Productions Share Student Projects and Productions The Department of Theater is privileged to support the creative initiative and ingenuity of our students. Each term, the department gives over space, time, and resources to support the development and production of work that has been conceived, written, directed, designed, and/or performed by undergraduates. "It's Fine, I'm Fine",written and performed by Stephanie Everett '19. Spring 2019. Photo Kata Sasvari. "Red Speedo", directed by Adam Riegler '20. Fall 2019. Photo Rob Strong. "Baltimore Waltz", directed by Julie Solomon '17. Fall 2015. Photo Rob Strong. "Medea", directed by Kelleen Moriarty '19. Fall 2017. Photo Rob Strong. "Tragedy: a tragedy", directed by Owen O'Leary '19. Fall 2018. Photo Rob Strong. PreviousNext Types of student projects and productions The Department of Theater supports multiple production opportunities in the Bentley Theater each term, ranging in scope from straightforward creative endeavors requiring no technical support to fully-realized and designed theatrical productions. Department-sponsored student production/performance opportunities fall into one of four categories: Full Productions: a fully-realized theatrical production inclusive of a full creative team and design elements. Workshop Projects: a production opportunity offering faculty mentorship and some technical support. Studio Lab Projects: a minimal-tech opportunity for the development and exploration of new or experimental work. YourSpace Performances: performance space only. Available to all students, regardless of experience. The YourSpace program is open to the entire campus; all other production opportunities are available to majors, minors, and other students with a demonstrated track record of experience within the department. Relevant coursework is required for students directing workshops or full productions. Proposals for each of these types are typically due to the Department Administrator at the end of the first week of each term; click here for term-specific deadlines. For more information, please see the associated pages linked above or contact Sharonna Henderson or Production Manager Brianna Parry. Students may also access the Student Production Manual for more information. More about the work Spotlight on Student Productions The video below, highlighting student productions and performances from a single term in spring 2017, offers some insight into the type of student-driven work that the we are privileged to support. Video of Spring 2017 at Dartmouth: Five women, five remarkable student productions Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback