Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Toggle navigation About Mission, Vision, & Values History Bylaws Facilities & Equipment Contact About the College People Faculty / Staff Visiting Artists / Scholars Alumni Employment Opportunities Programs Undergraduate Graduate Auditions News Video Gallery News Events Event News Awards & Achievements Productions Events & Tickets Digital Publications Student Theatre Association SOT + Past Productions Special Events Senior Showcase Fundraiser Senior Showcase Music Theatre Intensive Community Outreach Theatre for Young Audiences Support Memberships & Subscriptions Patrons Association Paid Advertising Giving About Mission, Vision, & Values History Bylaws Facilities & Equipment Contact About the College People Faculty / Staff Visiting Artists / Scholars Alumni Employment Opportunities Programs Undergraduate Graduate Auditions News Video Gallery News Events Event News Awards & Achievements Productions Events & Tickets Digital Publications Student Theatre Association SOT + Past Productions Special Events Senior Showcase Fundraiser Senior Showcase Music Theatre Intensive Community Outreach Theatre for Young Audiences Support Memberships & Subscriptions Patrons Association Paid Advertising Giving X × School of Theatre News May 2, 2022 School of Theatre Presents First Fringe The halls, outdoor spaces and lobbies of FSU’s Fine Arts Building came to life April 13-15 as FSU School of Theatre presented its first SOT Fringe. Aaron Thomas, Assistant Professor READ MORE » March 1, 2022 Symposium on Global Blackface & Global Minstrelsy … FSU School of Theatre hosted a symposium on Saturday, February 26 centered on Global Blackface and Global Minstrelsy. Moderated by Assistant Professor Kellen Hoxworth, the hybrid event featured four panelists, READ MORE » January 27, 2022 Faith Northcutt (Music Theatre ‘21) On Tour with Hair … Nina West as Edna Turnblad and Faith Northcutt (’21) as Tracy Turnblad. 2021 Music Theatre graduate Faith Northcutt is on the road with the national tour of the musical Hairspray READ MORE » Associate Professor Beth Osborne Publishes Essay in The … Associate Professor Beth Osborne Associate Professor Beth Osborne of the School of Theatre published a new essay, “The Promise of the Green New Deal: A 21st-Century Federal Theatre Project” in READ MORE » School of Theatre Alums featured on The Game Series on … The cast of THE GAME, including Analisa Velez (’12), second from right. The first season of the Paramount+ revival of the 2006 BET series The Game features two FSU School READ MORE » December 3, 2021 School of Theatre Alum Makes Broadway Debut in MJ the M … Ramone Nelson (’21) School of Theatre graduate Ramone Nelson (BFA Music Theatre, 2021), who razzle-dazzled Tallahassee in roles like Billy Flynn in Chicago and Benny in In the Heights, has READ MORE » More News » What Inspires You? As one of the top-tier theatre training programs in the nation, the School of Theatre challenges its students to grow as artists and individuals as they explore the world of theatre. Learn More » Our Season » News » Apply Now » Learn More Facilities Map Apply Contact Faculty and Staff » Degree Programs » Contact Us » Come See What We're All About Schedule a Tour Visitor Information The Arts at FSU Apply Today What's new at the School of Theatre? School of Theatre Presents First Fringe May 2, 2022 Symposium on Global Blackface & Global Minstrelsy … March 1, 2022 Faith Northcutt (Music Theatre ‘21) On Tour with Hair … January 27, 2022 Associate Professor Beth Osborne Publishes Essay in The … School of Theatre Alums featured on The Game Series on … More News » School of Theatre Presents First Fringe May 2, 2022 The halls, outdoor spaces and lobbies of FSU’s Fine Arts Building came to life April 13-15 as FSU School of Theatre presented its first SOT Fringe. Aaron Thomas, Assistant Professor Read More » More Events » Toggle navigation About Mission, Vision, & Values History Bylaws Facilities & Equipment Contact About the College People Faculty / Staff Visiting Artists / Scholars Alumni Employment Opportunities Programs Undergraduate Graduate Auditions News Video Gallery News Events Event News Awards & Achievements Productions Events & Tickets Digital Publications Student Theatre Association SOT + Past Productions Special Events Senior Showcase Fundraiser Senior Showcase Music Theatre Intensive Community Outreach Theatre for Young Audiences Support Memberships & Subscriptions Patrons Association Paid Advertising Giving Theatre Social Media Report web issues English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT Name First Last Email * Request Info Start an Application Enrolling as... Enrolling as a...FreshmanTransfer StudentGraduate StudentInternational StudentNon-Degree Desired Department Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of MusicSchool of Theatre CAPTCHA Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE X X