Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Recent Publications Laurie Churba Kohn Costume design for How Shakespeare Won the West by Richard Nelson, directed by Jon Moscone, (2008). Costume design for Death of a Salesman , and A View From the Bridge , both by Arthur Miller, directed by Tim Bond and Daniel Aukin in repertory, (2008). Costume design for LoveCompassion! by Terrence McNally, directed by Anders Cato, (2007). Costume design for Saturday Night Live commercial parodies, (1998-2008). Costume design assistant for Saturday Night Live , (1997-2008). Costume design for The Price by Arthur Miller, directed by James Naughton, on Broadway, (1999-2000). Laura Edmondson “Faustin Linyekula and the Violence of Plague.” Theatre Journal (December 2020): 405-423. "The Fabulous Pan-Africanism of Binyavanga Wainaina." GLQ 26.3 (June 2020): 529-560. "Anti-Homosexual Acts on Trial: The Poetics of Justice in Uganda." TDR 63.2 (Summer 2019): 6-33. Performing Trauma in Central Africa: Shadows of Empire. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2018. Forged in Fire by Okello Kelo Sam, Laura Edmondson, and Robert Ajwang. Voorhees Theatre in Brooklyn, NY. 2015. “Uganda Is Too Sexy: Reflections on Kony 2012.” TDR 56.3 (Fall 2012). 10-17. Forged in Fire (play). By Okello Kelo Sam, Laura Edmondson, and Robert Ajwang. Excerpted in Refugee Performance: Practical Encounters. Ed. Michael Balfour. Bristol, UK and Chicago: Intellect Books and the University of Chicago Press, 2012. 61-66. Eat Like a Bird (play). In Cultural Conversations: Works in Progress, Writers in the Making, ed. Susan B. Russell (Lemont, PA: Eifrig Publishing, 2011), 91-132. "Confessions of a Failed Theatre Activist: Intercultural Encounters in Uganda and Rwanda." In Avant-Garde Performance and Material Exchange: Vectors of the Radical, edited by Mike Sell. Houndmills, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2011. 41-59. “Genocide Unbound: Erik Ehn, Rwanda, and an Aesthetics of Discomfort,” Theatre Journal, 61:1 (March 2009): 65-83. Review essay: "Performing Africa." African Affairs 109 (2009): 151-160. “The Poetics of Displacement and the Politics of Genocide in Three Plays about Rwanda,” in Violence Performed: Local Roots and Global Routes of Conflict, edited by Patrick Anderson and Jisha Menon. Houndmills, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2008. 54-78. Performance and Politics in Tanzania: The Nation on Stage, Indiana University Press, 2007. “Of Sugarcoating and Hope,” TDR, 51:2 (May 2007): 7-10. “Marketing Trauma and the Theatre of War in Northern Uganda,” Theatre Journal, 57:3 (2005): 451-474. “Love in the Time of Dissertations: An Ethnographic Tale,” with R O Ajwang, Qualitative Inquiry, 9:3 (June 2003): 466-480. Peter Hackett Artistic Director, The Cleveland Play House, (1994-2004) Associate Artistic Director, The Denver Center Theater Company, (1983-1988) Director, Orwell in America (world premiere), Northern Stage, VT (2015) and 59E59 Theater, NYC (2016) Director, A Christmas Carol, Northern Stage, VT (2016) Director, Noises Off, Northern Stage, VT (2018) Director, Mack and Mabel, The Cape Rep Theater (2012) Director, The Underpants, The Monomoy Theater (2015) Director, Twelve Angry Men, Hungarian National Theater, Miskolc and the Pecs National Theater Festival (2002) Jamie Horton Actor, George Orwell in Orwell in America, 59E59 Theaters, New York City, dir. Peter Hackett (2016) Actor, Our Town, Northern Stage, White River Junction, VT, dir. Carol Dunne (2015) Actor, George Orwell in Orwell in America, Northern Stage, White River Junction, VT, dir. Peter Hackett (2015) Actor, 12 Angry Men, Northern Stage, White River Junction, VT, dir. Malcolm Morrison (2013) Actor, Lincoln, starring Daniel Day-Lewis, dir. Steven Spielberg (2012) Actor, The Clean House by Sarah Ruhl, Denver Center Theatre Company, Denver, CO, dir. Wendy Goldberg (2006) Director, Fiction by Steven Dietz, Curious Theatre Company, Denver, CO (2006) Director, The Heidi Chronicles by Wendy Wasserstein, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH (2005) Director, Slabtown by Steven Cole Hughes, Denver Center Theatre Company, Denver, CO (2005) Screenwriter, A Rumor of Angels, starring Vanessa Redgrave, MGM/UA (2002) Dan J. Kotlowitz Projection Designer, Esai's Table, Cherry Lane Theater, NY and JAG 2019-2020 Lighting Designer, A Doll's House, Huntington Theatre Company 2017 Lighting Designer, King Lear, Northern Stage 2019 Lighting Designer, The Skin of Our Teeth, Berkshire Theatre Festival, 2019 Lighting Designer, Faithful Cheaters, Trinity Repertory Company, 2017 Lighting Designer, 12 Angry Men, St Louis Repertory Theatre, 2008 Lighting and Projection Designer, Macbeth, A Christmas Carol, Northern Stage, 2016 Monica White Ndounou Shaping the Future of African American Film: Color-Coded Economics and the Story Behind the Numbers, Rutgers University Press, 2014 Mara Beth Sabinson Director, One Flea Spare , by Naomi Wallace, Dartmouth College. Director, Something in the Air , by Richard Dresser, Dartmouth College. Director, Twelfth Night , by William Shakespeare, Dartmouth College. Reading, Third , by Wendy Wasserstein, Dartmouth College. Actress, The Good Person of Setzuan , Wu Wei Theater of Frankfurt, U.S. tour. Analola Santana Books: Teatro y Cultura de Masas: Encuentros y Debates. México: Escenología, 2010. Freak Performances: Dissidence in Latin American Theatre. Forthcoming, University of Michigan Press, November 2018. Edited Volumes: With Jimmy Noriega, eds. Theatre and Cartographies of Power: Repositioning the Latina/o Americas. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 2018. With Sara Muñoz, eds. Special Issue of Hispanic Issues Online: Freakish Encounters: Constructions of the Freak in Hispanic Cultures. Forthcoming, Spring 2018. With Paola Hernández, eds. Fifty Key Figures in Latinx and Latin American Theatre. London: Routledge, 2022. With Michael Chemers, eds. Monsters in Performance: Essays on the Aesthetics of Social Disqualification. London: Routledge, 2022. Articles: “The Projection of the Self in Latin American Performance Art.” Latin American Literature in Transition. Volume V: 1980-2017. Debra Castillo and Mónica Szurmuk, eds. (Forthcoming, Cambridge UP 2022). “Los circuitos de la invisibilidad. Performance, violencia y sexualidad.” Perspectivas políticas de la escena latinoamericana. Diálogos en tiempo presente. Eds. Lola Proaño-Gómez and Lorena Verzero. Buenos Aires/Los Angeles: Argus-a Artes y Humanidades, 2017. 135-148. “Theatre and Mass Culture: Pedagogical Tools for Stimulating Critical Thinking.” Latin American Theatre Review 50.1 (Fall 2016): 191-204. “Circuits of Invisibility: Performance, Violence, and Sexuality” Lateral, Journal of the Cultural Studies Association. (5.2, Fall 2016). “Desesperanza en el porvenir: Reflexiones sobre la puesta en escena de Amores de Cantina de Juan Radrigán.” Chasqui: Revista de literatura latinoamericana 45.2 (November 2016): 150-166. With Claudio Valdés Kuri. “Between Pen and Sweat: An Account of an Experience between a Director and a Dramaturg” Theatre Topics 26.1 (March 2016): 131-40. “Teatro Latino en los Estados Unidos: La estética teatral de Migdalia Cruz.” Cuadernos de Literatura 37 (January-June 2015). “Vida del proyecto.” Monstruos y prodigios. La historia de los castrati: Recuento de un proyecto teatral inclasificable. Ed. Leonel Sagahón. México: CONACULTA (2014). 45-57. “Una apuesta por el teatro.” Revista Paso de Gato 10.51 (2012): 86-88. “Transgresiones femeninas o cómo Jesusa Rodríguez encontró el cuerpo de Sor Juana.” Revista Letras Femeninas 38.1 (2012): 55-69. “Una máquina teatral: Forma e identidad en el teatro de Migdalia Cruz.” Latin America Theatre Review 43.1 (2009): 103-120. “Una cuestión de gustos: hacia una crítica teatral de la ética del consumo en Misa en Los Pinos de Jesusa Rodríguez.” KARPA: Dissident Theatricalities, Visual Arts, and Culture. (January 2009). Online: <http://www.calstatela.edu/misc/karpa/Karpa2.1/Site%20Folder/index.html>. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback