Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Theater Department of Theater Contact Us Facebook Department.of.Theater@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Back to Top Nav Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Back to Top Nav Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange For Prospective Students Share For Prospective Students Considering applying to Dartmouth? Curious about how theater might be part of your studies and/or campus life? Read on . . . Theater students participating in a Master Class with Emmy Award-winner David Harbour, Spring 2018. Photo rob Strong. World-Class Faculty Onstage Backstage International Study: The London FSP PreviousNext Prospective Students The Department of Theater empowers our students with the critical and creative tools, the artistic courage, and the empathy that are essential to a fulfilling exploration of the world through theater. Our goal is to forge a strong sense of community based on respect, artistic endeavor, and collaboration, where all Dartmouth students can feel at home and thrive. We welcome and nurture theater majors and non-majors alike: as scholars, performers, designers, playwrights, stage managers, technicians, and audience members. We also strive to create a learning community where all students, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, country of origin, or ability, are treated with equality and fairness, and where diversity is embraced as a core artistic strength. We take deep pride in: our exclusive focus on undergraduates our emphasis on individual faculty mentorship our outstanding faculty and staff our openness as a department Upon graduation, our majors launch professional careers in New York, Chicago, or L.A.; others enter post-graduate programs at institutions including NYU, Yale, the American Conservatory Theater, and CalArts. Still others pursue careers in medicine, education, and law, where alumni report their training in collaboration and interdisciplinary thinking enhances their skills and professional careers. We work closely with all of our students to help them attain their educational and career goals. WORLD-CLASS FACULTY Our faculty and staff is composed of professional artists and scholars, teaching an innovative and rigorous academic curriculum that places equal emphasis on both theatrical practice (acting, directing, design, playwriting, stage management) and study (history, criticism, and theory). Their collective professional experience spans work in regional, community-based, off-Broadway/Broadway, and international theater settings, as well as in film and television. Students also study and learn from exceptional visiting artists who teach in our classrooms, offer master classes, and direct and design our productions. Recent guest artists include: Tazewell Thompson, Deena Selenow, Sarah Hughes '07, Fabian Obispo, Kathy Perkins, Miranda Haymond, and Lawrence Moten. Beyond the Theater Department, Dartmouth also enjoys a continuous influx of preeminent visiting artists and scholars. Past guests have included Leslie Odom Jr., Nilo Cruz, Cherríe Moraga, Peter Sellars, Lynn Nottage, Suzan-Lori Parks, Alan Alda, and Anna Deavere Smith. Our students benefit from a rich alumni network across the country. Dartmouth Theater alumni working in the profession include Niegel Smith '02, Mindy Kaling '01, David Harbour '97, Shonda Rhimes '91, Rachel Dratch '88, Melinda Lopez '86, and Jerry Zaks '68, to name just a few. ONSTAGE AT DARTMOUTH From popular musicals to original pieces to devised work to classical drama, our stages burst at the seams with a wide range of both student and faculty-directed productions. Students gain hands-on experience working in close mentorships with faculty directors and designers in our MainStage season. They also have abundant opportunities to lead their own student-driven theater productions, working as actors, directors, designers, and playwrights to develop their artistic and collaborative skills. Every one of our performance and production opportunities is open to all Dartmouth students, regardless of major; we are proud to offer creative, experiential theatrical opportunities to every interested student. The Sophomore Summer is a unique feature of the Dartmouth curriculum. Those interested in theater may take advantage of our Summer Theater Lab, a remarkable academic class that immerses students in performance, production, playwriting, movement, and devised and collaborative theatre techniques, setting them to work alongside professional theater artists through a series of festivals and workshops. Each spring, several of our majors lead our Senior Spring Season, which showcases a wide variety of advanced, performance-based projects by our graduating students. INTERNATIONAL STUDY: THE LONDON FSP Through our Theater Foreign Study Program, many of our majors and minors study at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA), one of the world's great conservatories. The program enables students to develop their craft during ten weeks of intensive conservatory training while taking advantage of London's incomparable theatrical tradition and vibrant cultural scene. EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING AND PROFESSIONAL INTERNSHIPS Thanks to our unique partnership with Northern Stage, a leading professional regional theater located 10 minutes from campus, our students have access to extraordinary internship opportunities in acting, directing, production, and arts administration. The Theater Department-Northern Stage experiential learning term, or "E-Term", includes fifteen weeks of hands-on training in all aspects of the industry. Students also benefit from the our close relationship with the New London Barn Playhouse, a professional summer stock theater in New London, NH. Every summer, Dartmouth students can be found onstage and behind the scenes in a variety of roles. INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE? PLAN TO APPLY? You're welcome to visit the Department of Theater on weekdays. Get in touch with us today and we can arrange for you to meet with faculty, engage with current students, observe a class, and/or tour our facilities. Please note that the Theater Department faculty does not conduct auditions or interviews; instead, all prospective students must apply directly to Dartmouth College. If you would like to submit theater materials for review with your application, please use the art supplement portal with your application. A member of the faculty will be contacted by Admissions to review your materials as part of the application process. Students are encouraged to submit those materials that best showcase their artistic passion and dedication, such as an excerpt from an original play, video of audition monologues, design renderings, or a combination thereof. Regardless of whether or not you choose to apply to Dartmouth, we sincerely hope that you will continue to pursue your love of theater and the performing arts, and we wish you every success. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Theater Undergraduate Overview Equity and Inclusivity Peer Advisors and Student Representatives The Major Major Requirements Honors Thesis The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Theater The Minor Minor Requirements Courses: offerings by term Course Descriptions Instructor Permission Courses Independent Study Off-Campus Exchange National Theater Institute For Prospective Students Onstage Overview Get Involved Performing and Auditions Directing and Designing Playwriting Stage Managing The Scene Shop The Costume Shop Now Onstage: Upcoming Productions Season Archives: Past Productions Production Photos About Student Productions Workshops and Full Productions Studio Lab: Exploring Theatrical Boundaries YourSpace: Performance Spaces for Creative Minds Student Work in the time of COVID About MainStage Productions Opportunities Overview Summer Theater Lab: Cultivating New Work VoxLab Frost and Dodd Play Festival New York Theatre Workshop Residency The VOICES Program Experiential Learning with Northern Stage Testimonials Student Funding Opportunities Kingsdale Fund Need-Based Funding Goldner Mini-Fellowship Other funding opportunities Funding for Graduate Studies Internships, Fellowships, and Graduate Programs The Neukom Institute Literary Arts Award in Playwriting Foreign Study News & Events All News and Events MainStage Production News Student Production News Honors Thesis Productions Summer Theater Lab News Faculty News Student News Visiting Artist News Alumni News People Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists Alumni Tell Us Your Story Theater and Performance Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback