Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | The Center for Leadership & Social Change Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Get Involved Leadership Diversity Service LLRC Recognition Resources News Support Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The Center for Leadership & Social Change Toggle navigation Home About Get Involved Leadership Diversity Service LLRC Recognition Resources News Support Home Diversity Programs Latinx Cultural Celebration Rosalia Gonzales Award Inclusive FSU HR Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Certificate Estonko Latinx Cultural Celebration Latinx Distinguished Service Award Rosalia Gonzales Award Multicultural Leadership Summit NCBI @ FSU Social Change Peer Educators Social Justice Living Learning Community Social Justice Ally Training Women's History Month Rosalia Gonzales Award The purpose of the Rosalia Gonzales Award is to encourage and recognize an undergraduate or graduate student for their outstanding contributions to the Florida State University community related to sharing and upholding the principles and ideals of the Latinx culture. While this recognition is a tremendous honor, it also carries a $500 award for the recipient. About Rosalia Gonzales Based on a review of our Florida State University Yearbooks from 1900 to 2008, Rosalia Gonzales is the first Latina graduate to appear in cap and gowned in 1921. Based on this same document review, Rosalia was engaged and active both academically and socially on campus. She represents a tradition of scholarly excellence and social involvement on our campus. Through this award, we intend to link the Latinx students of yesterday who paved the brick path for our Latinx students today who continue more than a century of academic achievement and social engagement. Nominations for the 2021 award are open through Oct. 31. Nomination Criteria: In good standing academically and in conduct, as well as classified a full-time undergraduate or graduate student. Undergraduate nominees must be a third- or fourth-year student by credit hours; graduate students must have reached their second year of study during the fall 2021 semester. Exemplifies the legacy of Rosalia Gonzales, being involved both academically and socially throughout the community Demonstrates a commitment to diversity and inclusion evidenced by social or academic efforts to promote and/or educate the community about the Latinx culture Individuals from all race, creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or other identity groups are eligible for the award. Nomination Packet: A cover letter from the lead nominator addressing the nominee's commitment to diversity and Latinx ideals. A resume/CV for nominee Short biography of nominee One letter of support from a faculty or staff member Submit Nomination Contact Dr. Sierra Turner srturner@fsu.edu title-inside title-centered 2 The Center for Leadership & Social Change Dunlap Student Success Center 100 South Woodward Avenue Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: (850) 644–3342 Website questions/broken links Sign up for our newsletter The Center for Leadership & Social Change: Facebook Instagram Twitter Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media