Orange Alert Skip to main content Search Search Give Online Menu ☰ Home Admissions Academics Student Success Alumni Research More Academics Departments Majors & Minors First Year Experience Renee Crown Honors Program Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty listing Part Time Faculty listing Emeritus Faculty Staff listing Named Chairs & Professorships In Memoriam Administrative Units Student Success Liberal Arts Core Degree Completion PreLaw PreHealth Registration Admissions Apply Now Staff Vlogs Dean's Team Scholarships News & Events News Noteworthy Events Office of Communications Home Staff Contact Form Resources About About the College About the Dean Academic Strategic Plan Internal Forms History Research Student Centered Proposal Development Clusters & Groups Information for... Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Current Students Quick Links syracuse.edu English: In this section English Home CW Undergraduate Studies ETS Undergraduate Studies M.F.A. in Creative Writing M.A. and Ph.D. Programs Courses People Books News Contact Us You are here: Arts & Sciences Department of English Creative Writing M.F.A. Program Creative Writing M.F.A. Program Three-Year M.F.A. in Creative Writing The M.F.A. program in creative writing is committed to creating a supportive environment for its students. As a program that aims to nurture new voices, we particularly want to welcome writers from underrepresented communities. We encourage people of color to apply. We believe a program is at its best when it is comprised of strong writers from a full spectrum of backgrounds and experiences. POC-identified students can join a POC student group that is responsible for annually nominating a candidate to represent diversity and general student concerns on the creative writing committee. Our program also aims to be a comfortable and supportive environment for LGBTQ students, international students, veterans, first-generation college students, disabled students, and for everyone who chooses to join us. Students are presented with opportunities to teach in the Writing Program (a separate academic unit, specializing in composition) and in the Living Writers course, featuring prominent guest writers from the Raymond Carver Reading Series. Also, students can gain valuable editing and publishing experience through participation in Salt Hill, an award-winning campus literary magazine. During its nearly 50-year history, the creative writing program has produced an outstanding array of writers whose work has been published by major presses and magazines and won prestigious awards. Distinguished alumni include Chanelle Benz, Lily King,Tom Perrotta, Julia Alvarez and Recent Graduates Nana Adjei-Brenyah G ’16, Alexandra Chang G’18, Wendy Chen G’17, Anthony So G’20 and Rohan Chhetri G’18. Statement of Solidarity from the Syracuse University Creative Writing Program We the faculty of Syracuse University’s MFA Program in Creative Writing stand with our students against the structural racism in this country that has led to the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Eric Garner, and the thousands who have preceded them in the last 400 years. We stand in solidarity with our students, with the protests, and with the Black Lives Matter movement that demands accountability and resists the dehumanization inflicted on Black citizens at the hands of the police. We oppose an unjust system that threatens the lives of all people of color as well as LGBTQIA+ people. We also pledge to take a hard look at our own program, in order to root out any institutional racist policies and practices in our classroom communities, and to better serve all our students in their endeavors as writers. We say all these things, and yet we know that we haven’t done enough—that we’ve been too passive, both now and during the #NotAgainSU movement. To fight white supremacy, we must educate ourselves, hire and retain new faculty of color, continue to recruit a diverse student body, and work to make things better rather than explain why they’re not. We’re here to listen to our students’ concerns, to bear witness, and to do the work necessary to build a community that is safe and welcoming to all students and faculty, and especially those of color and LGBTQIA+. We pledge to follow statements of conviction with commitment to action. M.F.A. in Creative Writing The three-year M.F.A. program in Creative Writing gives promising fiction writers and poets an opportunity to practice their art with dedicated fellow writers. Course Catalog Links Course Catalog: Creative Writing, M.F.A. Documents and Forms phd-exam-reading-lists.pdf Related Creative Writing Links Creative Writing M.F.A. Program Books by M.F.A. Alumni M.F.A. Alumni Book Authors Coursework Funding and Financial Aid Raymond Carver Reading Series Application Instructions Salt Hill Creative Writing Faculty M.F.A. Creative Writing Students Awards and Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Meet Us Discovery Programs Undergraduate Graduate Academics Programs Departments Faculty Directory Student Success Advising Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Career Services Handshake DegreeWorks About About the College Academic Strategic Plan Dean's Cabinet Land Acknowledgement History Centers & Institutes Engaged Humanities Humanities Center La Casita Cultural Engagement Community Folk Art Center Democratizing Knowledge Writing Center MLK Library Like Arts and Sciences on Facebook Follow Arts and Sciences on Twitter Subscribe to Arts and Sciences on YouTube Follow Arts and Sciences on Instagram Connect with Arts and Sciences on LinkedIn Search Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy