Orange Alert Skip to main content Search Search Give Online Menu ☰ Home Admissions Academics Student Success Alumni Research More Academics Departments Majors & Minors First Year Experience Renee Crown Honors Program Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty listing Part Time Faculty listing Emeritus Faculty Staff listing Named Chairs & Professorships In Memoriam Administrative Units Student Success Liberal Arts Core Degree Completion PreLaw PreHealth Registration Admissions Apply Now Staff Vlogs Dean's Team Scholarships News & Events News Noteworthy Events Office of Communications Home Staff Contact Form Resources About About the College About the Dean Academic Strategic Plan Internal Forms History Research Student Centered Proposal Development Clusters & Groups Information for... Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Current Students Quick Links syracuse.edu College of Arts and Sciences A&S students own the future. Why? They're not content simply to witness history. They're driven to make the world healthier, more hopeful and more human. Thanks to a powerful blend of top-tier research, stellar faculty, customizable academics and experiential learning, A&S | Maxwell students are ready for nearly anything. Plus, personalized academic and career advising, access to a robust A&S alumni network and exclusive credentials like Edge certification all help students transition seamlessly from campus to life after graduation. With unbounded opportunity to parlay academic interests into real-world problem-solving, they're not just prepared for the future. They own it. Congratulations, graduates! Watch the full A&S | Maxwell Undergraduate Convocation, A&S Master's Convocation and Syracuse University Commencement. Current A&S News After leading A&S for eight years, Dean and Distinguished Professor of Chemistry Karin Ruhlandt will conclude her tenure this summer. Current Associate Dean Lois Agnew, professor of writing and rhetoric, will serve as A&S’ interim dean. A&S graduate students bring physics to local classrooms to inspire the next generation of scientists. NBA Advocate: Michael Kidd-Gilchrist visits Syracuse University to talk with speech pathology students about his personal experiences with stuttering. Amplifying Voice, Building Community: The College of Arts and Sciences Engaged Humanities Network, the North Side Learning Center and Narratio.org partner to ignite the creativity of Syracuse-area resettled refugee students. Find Out More Click the button below to learn about specific programs of study, career and academic advising and special opportunities available to students. Learn More | Apply A&S By The Numbers 50+ majors in the natural sciences, mathematics, humanities, and social sciences 360 outstanding faculty members R1 designation recognizing "very high research activity" 150 years of making the world healthier, hopeful, and more human See what's happening in A&S. Filter events [[ org ]] Filter Events Events There are no events in this category right now, but please check the University calendar for many other options. Upcoming Events Ongoing Events Previous events More events Admissions Meet Us Discovery Programs Undergraduate Graduate Academics Programs Departments Faculty Directory Student Success Advising Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Career Services Handshake DegreeWorks About About the College Academic Strategic Plan Dean's Cabinet Land Acknowledgement History Centers & Institutes Engaged Humanities Humanities Center La Casita Cultural Engagement Community Folk Art Center Democratizing Knowledge Writing Center MLK Library Like Arts and Sciences on Facebook Follow Arts and Sciences on Twitter Subscribe to Arts and Sciences on YouTube Follow Arts and Sciences on Instagram Connect with Arts and Sciences on LinkedIn Search Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy