Orange Alert Skip to main content Search Search Give Online Menu ☰ Home Admissions Academics Student Success Alumni Research More Academics Departments Majors & Minors First Year Experience Renee Crown Honors Program Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty listing Part Time Faculty listing Emeritus Faculty Staff listing Named Chairs & Professorships In Memoriam Administrative Units Student Success Liberal Arts Core Degree Completion PreLaw PreHealth Registration Admissions Apply Now Staff Vlogs Dean's Team Scholarships News & Events News Noteworthy Events Office of Communications Home Staff Contact Form Resources About About the College About the Dean Academic Strategic Plan Internal Forms History Research Student Centered Proposal Development Clusters & Groups Information for... Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Current Students Quick Links syracuse.edu MLK Jr. Memorial Library: In this section MLK Library About Us Services Research Contact You are here: Arts & Sciences Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Library The Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Library As new generations of researchers seek to understand the issues that we face today, the knowledge of our shared identities must stand as a testament to past struggles and the victories that helped to shape American society. However, the challenge to providing access in the 21st century lies not in the documents but rather the methods by which they are retrieved. Through the innovations of modern technology, information can be delivered in a variety of formats. The user is therefore required to have some knowledge of their subject matter as well as a measure of proficiency with these new formats, in order to navigate to a successful inquiry. Hours Regular hours: Monday: 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Tuesday: 1 p.m. - 8 p.m. Wednesday: 1 p.m. - 8 p.m. Thursday: 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Friday: 10 a.m.-5 p.m. MLK Jr. Library History Policies Facilities & Services Contact Us The Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Library 231 Sims Hall College of Arts and Sciences Syracuse University Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.9349 circhelp@syr.edu Social Media instagram Admissions Meet Us Discovery Programs Undergraduate Graduate Academics Programs Departments Faculty Directory Student Success Advising Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Career Services Handshake DegreeWorks About About the College Academic Strategic Plan Dean's Cabinet Land Acknowledgement History Centers & Institutes Engaged Humanities Humanities Center La Casita Cultural Engagement Community Folk Art Center Democratizing Knowledge Writing Center MLK Library Like Arts and Sciences on Facebook Follow Arts and Sciences on Twitter Subscribe to Arts and Sciences on YouTube Follow Arts and Sciences on Instagram Connect with Arts and Sciences on LinkedIn Search Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy