Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | The Center for Leadership & Social Change Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Get Involved Leadership Diversity Service LLRC Recognition Resources News Support Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The Center for Leadership & Social Change Toggle navigation Home About Get Involved Leadership Diversity Service LLRC Recognition Resources News Support ABOUT US The Center for Leadership & Social Change transforms lives through identity development, leadership education and community engagement. We encourage students to learn, serve and transform through programming that encompasses leadership, diversity and service. We offer more than 30 programs intended to foster opportunities and vision to create positive, sustainable change in their communities and the broader world. Opportunities range from one-time service at local nonprofits to year-long training and leadership roles. We offer training on such topics as leadership development, identity and cultural competence, service learning, and community change. WHAT WE OFFER SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES Students can engage in service as volunteers as well as recruit others to service commitments as community leaders. The 2017 Community Ambassadors recruited more than 1,000 FSU students that provided 4,650 community service hours to Tallahassee non-profits. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT At the LeaderShape Institute students create personal leadership visions and define how they will promote positive social change in their lives and communities. Former participants have hailed the program as a life-altering leadership experience that anyone could learn from. HONORS & RECOGNITION The V-rak-ke-ce-tv Cultural Graduation & Recognition Ceremonies are intimate celebrations where graduates and their support systems celebrate and honor each other on their shared accomplishments, dedications, and continual support. Diversity & Inclusion The FSU community can participate in our initiatives or create one of their own. Social Change Peer Educators is a new student-generated program that has facilitated workshops on identity development, racial trauma, and leadership development to over 150 people. WLI Presents: The Restore Store In honor of Women's History Month, we invite you to the "Restore Store," a place of sanctuary brought to you by the Women’s Leadership Institute. Many things in our world can seem chaotic and overwhelming, so we have generated some content in this online ‘store’ that you may find helpful to fill your cup or replenish your capacity for getting through the day. NEWS The Unease I recognize I may not be the only one that is in this place. The place of sitting in “it.” The place of not having a name for “it” but knowing that something is there that needs tending to Volunteers give back for Thanksgiving More than 50 volunteers — including FSU and FAMU staff and students, TPD, FSUPD, and the Leon County Sherriff's Office — came together to continue the Thanksgiving Food Basket tradition. What Should I Do Now? As we have continued to talk as a team, individually and in small groups, we thought about the best ways that we can continue to show support for our community, for those whose activism is out loud and in-your-face and for those whose activism is less public and exists in their volunteer work, their task force membership, or their conversations with racist family members. Our Call to Action Storytelling plays a vital role in creating positive changes in our communities. Through storytelling, the power of the narrative is enhanced, and with it, you can empathize with the storyteller's words. View More EVENTS View More The Center for Leadership & Social Change "The center is an amazing place where you can not only learn about yourself, but you can learn about how you relate to other people. It definitely has changed the way I view leadership and the way I can affect other people." -Jalicia Lewis, student leader SUPPORT US At the Center for Leadership & Social Change, we believe in the vast difference that can be made by the collective efforts of individuals. For decades, the center and its predecessors have transformed the lives of students, faculty and staff through leadership education, identity development and community engagement. Your support is critical in sustaining and expanding this collaborative, continuous work to live and lead at the intersection of community, diversity and change. Programs such as Multicultural Leadership Summit, LeaderShape Institute, and Service Leadership Seminar rely on donations from those who support our vision. Join us as we continue working to enable and empower each of us to embrace the value of difference and readily accept opportunities for lifelong learning, meaningful influence and positions of trust. Give Now title-inside title-centered 2 The Center for Leadership & Social Change Dunlap Student Success Center 100 South Woodward Avenue Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: (850) 644–3342 Website questions/broken links Sign up for our newsletter The Center for Leadership & Social Change: Facebook Instagram Twitter Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media