Orange Alert Skip to main content Search Search Give Online Menu ☰ Home Admissions Academics Student Success Alumni Research More Academics Departments Majors & Minors First Year Experience Renee Crown Honors Program Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty listing Part Time Faculty listing Emeritus Faculty Staff listing Named Chairs & Professorships In Memoriam Administrative Units Student Success Liberal Arts Core Degree Completion PreLaw PreHealth Registration Admissions Apply Now Staff Vlogs Dean's Team Scholarships News & Events News Noteworthy Events Office of Communications Home Staff Contact Form Resources About About the College About the Dean Academic Strategic Plan Internal Forms History Research Student Centered Proposal Development Clusters & Groups Information for... Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Current Students Quick Links syracuse.edu News & Events: In this section Events Noteworthy A&S News Archived News A&S Magazine You are here: Arts & Sciences A&S News A&S News Top Headlines Hidden in Plain Sight: A&S Biologists Say Southern Right Whale Habitat Choice is Key to Keeping Young Calves Safe Whale mothers choose nursery sites in shallow waters where predators cannot “eavesdrop” on communication between a mother and her young. Arts and Sciences | Maxwell Announce 2022 Emeriti Faculty The College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs honor 13 faculty members for their dedication and commitment to academic excellence at Syracuse University. Bringing CSI into the Classroom Students in the College of Arts and Sciences’ Advanced Crime Scene Investigation class gain valuable hands-on skills to prepare them for a career in forensics. Speech Therapy Dream Team NBA player Michael Kidd-Gilchrist talks with CSD students about the important bond between a speech therapist and a person who stutters. Preparing Students for a Life of Success (May 20, 2022) The Office of Undergraduate Academic and Career Advising uses innovation to ensure students are prepared for the job market and graduate school. A&S Alumna Ash Andrews ’21 Brings Years of Recruitment Experience to the A&S | Maxwell Admissions Office (May 17, 2022) Andrews joins the A&S | Maxwell admissions team after serving in Syracuse University’s central Office of Admissions for over four years. Righting Wrongs (May 12, 2022) English alum Joshua Koskoff ’88 continues his family’s legacy of fighting for justice. Eleanor Maine Receives Wasserstrom Prize for Graduate Teaching (May 11, 2022) The prize memorializes William Wasserstrom, a noted professor of English at Syracuse University. 2021-22 A&S Awards and Honors (May 11, 2022) Read the extensive list of students and faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences honored for their achievements over the past academic year. Biology and Earth and Environmental Sciences Departments Come Together on Diversity and Engagement Initiatives (May 9, 2022) A SEEDS SPUR summer fellowship, Natural Science Explorers outreach program and E4 seminar series highlight the departments' efforts. Reuniting to Celebrate Syracuse University Authors (May 5, 2022) The Books in the Humanities in-person reception highlighted the work of nearly 150 University authors across the past three copyright years. Five NSF CAREER Awards a Record for A&S (April 29, 2022) Professors John Franck, Brett Jakubiak, David Kellen, Davoud Mozhdehi and Minghao Rostami have been awarded five-year CAREER grants to support their innovative research and educational outreach. Syracuse University’s Top Putnam Math Competition Finisher Awarded Inaugural Erdős Prize (April 26, 2022) Connor Ritchie placed among the top 20% of participants in the annual North American mathematics competition. A&S Student Research on Display (April 26, 2022) Over 100 undergraduate A&S students gather at the Life Sciences Complex to share their work with faculty, peers and guests. Viewing a Microcosm Through a Physics Lens (April 19, 2022) Research could have implications on human health and medicine. Humanities Center Fellowships and Grants Support Graduate Student Research in the Humanities (April 14, 2022) Thanks to this support, recipients are positioned for success in their fields. A&S | Maxwell Students Earn “Edge” in Career-Readiness (April 5, 2022) Edge certification demonstrates value of students’ co-curricular learning to employers and graduate schools. A&S Communications Team Welcomes Senior Web Developer (April 5, 2022) Will Lehman brings over five years of higher ed web design experience to A&S. Delving Deeper (March 30, 2022) New interdisciplinary courses challenge perspectives on contemporary topics. On The Move: Additional Camera Installed Tracks SU-Sue and Otto’s New Nest On Bowne Hall (March 25, 2022) Thanks to gifts by alumna Anne Marie Higgins, viewers can tune in and watch the daily activities of Syracuse University’s favorite hawk pair. The Impact of Extinction (March 21, 2022) New research published in PNAS answers a lingering question about the source of atmospheric sulfur leading to the extinction of the dinosaurs. “Seeing Possibility For Myself” (March 18, 2022) The SUSTAIN program continues to cultivate and support STEM talent as it approaches endowment in its fifth year. Helping to Advance Latino History and Culture in the United States (March 17, 2022) A&S Professor of English Silvio Torres-Saillant is part of a committee charged with guiding the design and development of the National Museum of the American Latino. Revisiting the Perpetual Peace Project During the Russia-Ukraine Conflict (March 17, 2022) The 2008 Humanities Center initiative generated a framework for a global peace movement. EES Professor Helps Find Clues Behind What Turned Ancient Subtropical Drylands Into Oases (March 14, 2022) Thonis Family Professor Tripti Bhattacharya is among an international team of researchers whose study was published in Nature Communications. Be Not Afraid: Faith as the Cornerstone of Public Service (March 11, 2022) Michael Steele, former RNC chair, to deliver the 2022 Borgognoni Lecture. A&S Biologists Observe a Molecular “Hand-off” That Plays a Key Role in Reproduction (March 8, 2022) The team’s novel research on the life history of fruit fly sperm demonstrates molecular continuity between the male female reproductive tracts. NYS Governor Appoints A&S Professor Kishi Ducre to 400 Years of African American History Commission (March 4, 2022) The 15-member committee will help to educate the public about the history of racism and contributions of African Americans since 1619. WGS Professor Gwendolyn Pough to Serve as President of the Rhetoric Society of America (March 4, 2022) Pough will be the second Syracuse University faculty member to serve as president of the national organization. Mona Eikel-Pohen Wins Outstanding German Program Development and Advocacy Award (March 2, 2022) The award was presented by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages Small Undergraduate German Program Special Interest Group. Finding Her Voice (Feb. 28, 2022) Emmy-winning alumna AJ Willingham credits the WRC program with sparking her passion for writing. Lawrence Mouillé to Join Mathematics Department as National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow (Feb. 28, 2022) The appointment represents the first NSF Mathematical Sciences Postdoctoral Research Fellowship for the department. A Commitment to Mathematical Excellence (Feb. 28, 2022) A new scholarship in the Department of Mathematics honors the legacy of longtime faculty member Philip Throop Church. Reimagining the Core (Feb. 23, 2022) A&S faculty, students and alumni take a fresh look at key curricular requirements. (Bio)Sensing Protein Interactions (Feb. 21, 2022) A team of A&S researchers have designed a highly sensitive sensor capable of identifying proteins in solution down to a single molecule. Conventional Wisdom (Feb. 21, 2022) The Humanities Center’s Syracuse Symposium investigates conventions through a diverse selection of spring events. Remembering Robert S. Phillips, Alumnus and Former Professor of English at Syracuse University (Feb. 15, 2022) Among his honors, Phillips was a recipient of Syracuse University's George Arents Award in 1988. EES Researchers Explore the Factors that Shaped the Massive Cauca River Canyon in the Tropical Andes (Feb. 15, 2022) The team’s research pinpoints tropical locations more susceptible to erosion. No Matter the Major, Stocks and Finance Immersion Offers A&S | Maxwell Students a Window Into Finance (Feb. 8, 2022) The popular program brings students from various A&S | Maxwell majors together based on their interest in the financial industry. A Space to Celebrate the Global African Experience (Jan. 28, 2022) The Africa Initiative brings together students and faculty at Syracuse University with a shared interest in scholarship on Africa and Global Africans. A&S Remembers Kameshwar C. Wali, Longtime Physics Professor and Friend of Both the Sciences and Humanities at Syracuse University (Jan. 27, 2022) Wali, who taught at Syracuse for nearly 30 years, was a renowned theoretical physicist, author and humanist. LLL Professor Awarded Honorary Doctorate for Contributions to Linguistic Theory and Turkish Linguistics (Jan. 12, 2022) The honor was conferred to Professor Jaklin Kornfilt by the University of Cyprus. Examining the History and Consequences of the Doctrine of Christian Discovery (Jan. 7, 2022) Professor Philip Arnold is principal investigator on a Luce Foundation grant awarded to Syracuse University to explore the impact of the Doctrine. Admissions Meet Us Discovery Programs Undergraduate Graduate Academics Programs Departments Faculty Directory Student Success Advising Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Career Services Handshake DegreeWorks About About the College Academic Strategic Plan Dean's Cabinet Land Acknowledgement History Centers & Institutes Engaged Humanities Humanities Center La Casita Cultural Engagement Community Folk Art Center Democratizing Knowledge Writing Center MLK Library Like Arts and Sciences on Facebook Follow Arts and Sciences on Twitter Subscribe to Arts and Sciences on YouTube Follow Arts and Sciences on Instagram Connect with Arts and Sciences on LinkedIn Search Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy