Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Forum at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded ABOUT VENUE RESERVE COMMUNITY EVENTS Atrium Auditorium Foyer Green Room Room 301 & Terrace Room 315 Room 316 Room 317 The Forum at Columbia University Home Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Previous Next A Forum for Engagement The Forum, located on the corner of 125th Street and Broadway, is a unique community gathering space that serves as the gateway to Columbia University's developing Manhattanville campus. Open to the entire University as well as the local New York City community, The Forum is a multi-use venue that houses a state-of-the-art auditorium, meeting and event spaces, and communal work areas. In partnership with University faculty, staff and students, non-profit organizations, and other community groups, The Forum hosts academic lectures, conferences, performances and cultural events designed to spark conversation and civic engagement. The Forum provides an important new space where scholars and thought leaders from diverse fields can come together to share ideas, and where Columbia and the local community can engage with New York City and beyond. Recent Events Manhattanville Community Day Saturday, May 21, 2022 Saturday, May 21 saw the return of Community Day to the Manhattanville campus. The day was full of live performances, science and art projects, and free food samples from local favorites Dinosaur BBQ, Dear Mama, Manhattanville Market, and a dozen local vendors partnered with the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center. The Forum hosted free blood pressure screenings, a live concert from the Harlem Chamber Players, cookies and lemonade and much more! Explore The Venue Explore The Forum from afar using our new virtual tour, at right. The tour showcases The Forum's rental spaces which include the ground-floor Atrium, a conference auditorium and adjoining foyer, and four meeting rooms. To learn more about each individual space, please visit our Venue page. A Community Gathering Space The Forum’s ground floor Atrium is a gathering space open to the public seven days a week from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. (except University holidays). With ample seating, tech tables for charging devices, and free WiFi, the Atrium is ideal for those needing a quiet place to work, study, or meet a friend over a cup of coffee. Throughout the year, The Forum joins with other Manhattanville-based Columbia departments to host Community Days, which fill the campus and The Forum with a diverse selection of family-oriented programs for Columbia neighbors. Photo by Diane Bondareff Host Your Next Meeting or Event at The Forum The Forum rental spaces include a conference auditorium, with a capacity of 438 people; an adjoining foyer, which can accommodate up to 176 people; and four meeting rooms, ranging in size from a small conference room for 10 to a large meeting room that holds up to 55 people. Each of these rooms includes or can accommodate state-of-the-art technology. For an overview of The Forum's rental rates and occupancy details by room, please click here. Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Previous Next Phone 212.85.FORUM (212.853.6786) Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close