Skip to main content≡Open the Menu The Policy Lab Projects Reflections Publications and News Ecosystem Guide About Overview Our Team Our Partners Working With Us Events Get Updates Welcome toThe Policy Lab We’re at the center of Rhode Island’s infrastructure for evidence-based policymaking. Let’s learn together. Why We're Here The Policy Lab brings together experts from government, universities, and community organizations to collaborate on research tailored to inform decisions about how to improve policies and programs across the state. ProjectsLearn more about our work across state, local, and national partners Descriptive Analysis How can districts improve equity through school choice policies? Data Analytics What does administrative data tell us about youth behavioral health emergency service usage? Randomized Control Trial How effective is Rhode Island's Reemployment Services and Eligibility Assessments (RESEA) Program? Predictive Modeling, Data Analytics How can we leverage machine learning to reduce the high school dropout rate? Toolkit Design, Qualitative Research How do we optimize the COVID-19 testing experience? Randomized Control Trial How much does a letter campaign increase willingness to get a COVID-19 test? All Projects Events We host a variety of events including speaker series and technical workshops to advance the mission of the Lab and share its work with a diverse set of stakeholders. Learn about our upcoming and previous events. There are no upcoming events scheduled at this time. Reflections The Policy Lab completes longitudinal study on the effectiveness of Providence Public School District’s Multilingual Learners programs By Sarah Thang, Edward Huh and Kevin Wilson October 1, 2021 PROVIDENCE, RI — The Policy Lab at Brown University today released the results of an evaluation of the Providence Public School District (PPSD) Multilingual Learners (MLL) programs… ZenTables: Stress-free table publishing in Google Docs with Python By Paul Xu zentables01 What is ZenTables? Data scientists often need to report descriptive statistics presented in neatly formatted tables, which is a process surprisingly not well-supported by either Python or… Welcome to Reflections By David Yokum I’m excited to welcome y’all to Reflections! Before I explain, you need to first notice that our website is growing. You can learn more about our projects in, well, in our new Projects section! There… The Making of a Dashboard - Part 4: Refinements and Stakeholder Feedback By Paul Xu In the previous post we discussed general design patterns that put Vue and d3 together. This post will focus on how we improved the UI/UX design of the first prototype (shown above) according to the… All Reflections Get Updates Sign up to get updates on projects, events, and new episodes of our podcast, 30,000 Leagues Subscribe Please provide your email address: Applied research can be remarkably difficult, as theories often fail to work in practice. We need scientists shoulder-to-shoulder with practitioners in those moments, co-designing fresh ideas and iteratively experimenting to optimize solutions. The Policy Lab is a place and group of people dedicated to this work. Think NASA or Bell Labs, but for public policy. David Yokum, Director Our Team The Policy Lab is a community of researchers, data scientists, project managers, designers, and practitioners dedicated to promoting the use of evidence-based research in policymaking.Meet the Team Check out our podcast 30,000 Leagues 225 Dyer Street, 5th floorProvidence RI 02903 thepolicylab@brown.edu(401) 863-3392 An official website of Brown University Subscribe Please provide your email address: