Skip to main content Main Menu About Us About Stamp Student Union Adele H. Stamp Accessibility Resources Assessment and Research Customer Service Commitment Directions to Stamp Employment FAQ IT Services Staff Directory Support The Stamp Sustainability Sponsors Activities Senior Experience Special Events & Programs Student Entertainment Events Student Org Resource Center (SORC) Centers Memorial Chapel STAMP Gallery Studio A TerpZone Events Event & Guest Services Gameday Marketing Ticket Office Engagement Engagement Graduate Student Life Transfer and Off-Campus Student Life Immigrant & Undocumented Student Life Program Veteran Student Life MICA MICA AAPI Student Involvement Black Student Involvement Interfaith Programs and Spiritual Diversity Latinx Student Involvement LGBTQ Student Involvement & Advocacy Multiracial & Multicultural Student Involvement Native American Indian Student Involvement LCSL Leadership & Community Service-Learning Alternative Breaks Leadership Studies Program Maryland LEAD Program Maryland Mentor Corps Terps for Change Terps Vote Programs Book Center Welcome to STAMP Center for Campus Life Hours of Operation Today at Stamp Food, Shops, & Services Student Groups Land Acknowledgement University Bookstore One Button Studio keepconnected Yes, we're open: Come on in, Terps! Indoor dining in STAMP Food Court is back. Regular Seating and Indoor Dining have returned fully Dining indoors at the STAMP Food Court and other dining options in the building are now fully open. Regular seating has also resumed. Please observe posted signs for UMD's continuing mask requirement in classroom or instructional spaces in STAMP. Subject to change based on UMD COVID guidelines. Entrances: All entrances into the building are open. Please note posted building hours. Indoor Mask Mandate Lifted at STAMP: In alignment with campus guidance, face coverings are no longer required to be worn in STAMP. Exceptions include: individuals who have recently tested positive for COVID-19; those who are exhibiting any symptoms of COVID-19; and individuals who have recently been exposed to someone with the virus. KN95 masks may still be required for those visiting STAMP for instructional or academic activities. Face coverings are also required in the COVID-19 testing areas within STAMP. Visit Health.umd.edu for the most up-to-date testing information. Seating in Common Areas: Full operations have returned, and seating has been arranged in lounge areas. If you are unvaccinated, regardless of exemption status, please be seated 6 feet from others. Food Court, and Other Public Spaces: Seated Dine-In Services have returned. Please observe posted signs. STAMP continues to provide a safe space for the community with safety and cleaning/disinfecting protocols guided by the CDC and state/county recommendations. Should any campus, state and/or national requirements change, this notice will be updated. Thank you for your continued cooperation. Announcements Welcome New Terps Welcome New Terps We're glad you're here! Check out STAMP programs, 800+ student organizations, leadership opportunities and more to enrich your student life: Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Prospective Students Graduate Students COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Resources UMD Virus Info | Campus Updates and Resources University Health Center Gov. Larry Hogan COVID-19 Order and Response AAPI Soldarity Statement STAMP AAPI Cross-Racial Solidarity Statement At the one-year mark of the global pandemic and the witnessing of an historic reckoning of systemic racism, we at the Adele H. Stamp Student Union — Center for Campus Life (STAMP) are reminded of the important, collective work we still must do to support and live the mission to which we are committed: "To provide a safe and inviting campus center where all UMD students, alumni, faculty, staff, and community members cultivate lifelong relationships founded on engagement, learning, multiculturalism, and citizenship." Read More Land Acknowledgement Land Acknowledgement Every community owes its existence and strength to the generations before them, around the world, who contributed their hopes, dreams, and energy into making the history that led to this moment. Some were brought here against their will, some were drawn to migrate from their homes in hope of a better life, and some have lived on this land for more generations than can be counted. Truth and acknowledgment are critical in building mutual respect and connections across all barriers of heritage and difference. Read More Upcoming Events Fitness Classes with RecWell View Profile for Fitness Classes with RecWell Cosmic Bowling View Profile for Cosmic Bowling Click to See More Sponsors Adele H. Stamp Student Union 3972 Campus Drive College Park, MD 20742 301-314-3375 · stampithelp@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube Adele H. Stamp Student Union IT Services About the Stamp Annual Reports Calendar of Events Employment Food, Shops, and Services Green Choices Hours of Operation Comments and Feedback Maps, Directions, and Parking Student Organizations University Book Center UMD.edu Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Login Back to Top