Skip to Main Content The Well Toggle Menu Home News Academics Arts and Humanities Behind the Numbers Campus News Carolina People Focus Carolina Innovation and Entrepreneurship In the Know Research Updating Carolina Next Administration Chancellor↗ Governance↗ Provost ↗ UNC Board of Trustees ↗ UNC System ↗ Priorities Campaign for Carolina ↗ Carolina Next: Innovations for Public Good ↗ Carolina Together ↗ Operational Excellence ↗ Employee Resources Awards ↗ Careers at Carolina ↗ Connect Carolina ↗ CDS Menu and Hours ↗ Employee Forum ↗ Ethics and Integrity↗ Faculty Council ↗ Faculty and Staff Directory↗ Human Resources ↗ ITS Service Desk ↗ Ombuds ↗ Mental Health and Wellness↗ Parking↗ Sakai ↗ UNC Police ↗ Calendars Academic Calendar↗ Leave and Holidays ↗ Open Meetings Calendar↗ UNC Events ↗ Search Home News Academics Arts and Humanities Behind the Numbers Campus News Carolina People Focus Carolina Innovation and Entrepreneurship In the Know Research Updating Carolina Next Administration Chancellor↗ Governance↗ Provost ↗ UNC Board of Trustees ↗ UNC System ↗ Priorities Campaign for Carolina ↗ Carolina Next: Innovations for Public Good ↗ Carolina Together ↗ Operational Excellence ↗ Employee Resources Awards ↗ Careers at Carolina ↗ Connect Carolina ↗ CDS Menu and Hours ↗ Employee Forum ↗ Ethics and Integrity↗ Faculty Council ↗ Faculty and Staff Directory↗ Human Resources ↗ ITS Service Desk ↗ Ombuds ↗ Mental Health and Wellness↗ Parking↗ Sakai ↗ UNC Police ↗ Calendars Academic Calendar↗ Leave and Holidays ↗ Open Meetings Calendar↗ UNC Events ↗ Search Close Main Navigation Menu Top Stories Stacy Davis keeps world-class coastal research center running More than 100 Massey Award nominators described how vital the practical knowledge and can-do spirit of this Outer Banks native is to the success of the Institute for Marine Sciences. Explosive detection K-9 retires after 7 years of sniffing out danger After seven years of keeping the UNC community safe, Kash has earned “a steak or two” in retirement, says UNC Police K-9 handler Matt Dodson. Dr. Amir Barzin answers call to service Bleeding Carolina Blue to save lives She commutes by bike for exercise, time with children Elizabeth Basnight pulls her two kids behind her in a bike trailer. By the time she goes from home to daycare to work at the Kenan Center and back again, it’s an 8-mile roundtrip. Carolina projects first all-funds balanced budget His e-bike makes commuting easier, off and on the road Stay Connected In the Know Contact Us Get the Email Around Campus Academics Finding our Sources of Strength to build a healthier Carolina This past spring, a first-of-its-kind undergraduate course in Carolina's School of Education sought to promote mental health and prevent suicide on campus. Research Europe’s energy security: More independence or different dependence? Energy supply security strategy must be crafted in the context of the longer-term global supply and demand balance, says one Kenan-Flagler expert. Research Should we expect the U.S. labor force to grow dramatically? Data show there is reason to believe labor force participation has recovered from the pandemic blow and that incremental gains may be modest, says one Kenan-Flagler expert. Research Expanding UNC research to new participants Research for Me, the University’s centralized source for finding clinical research opportunities, seeks to connect thousands of people with studies that fit their interests or specific conditions. Campus News 3 Carolina faculty receive inaugural Global Excellence Awards The three awardees were recognized for their contributions to advance global partnerships, education and research at the University. Campus News The Graduate School gives awards for service, leadership Each year, The Graduate School celebrates students, faculty and staff by recognizing achievements in community service, teaching and leadership. Carolina in the News Astronomers find hidden trove of massive black holes A team led by professor Sheila Kannappan and doctoral student Mugdha Polimera found a previously overlooked treasure trove of black holes. The discovery, noted by ScienceDaily, offers a glimpse into the story of the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way. Eating three eggs a day can provide a woman with enough choline - a key nutrient for their baby's brain development Dr. Steven Zeisel, a Gillings School of Global Public Health professor and nutrition expert, tells the Daily Mail how a quick diet change can help pregnant women pass a little-known, but key nutrient onto their developing child. As reports of ‘Paxlovid rebound’ increase, Covid researchers scramble for answers Despite COVID symptom rebounding in some patients, researchers say Paxlovid remains effective. Myron Cohen, director of the Institute for Global Health & Infectious Diseases, tells Stat News why the Pfizer antiviral has even been “underutilized” in some cases. QUICK LINKS ATHLETICS ALERT CAROLINA ITS SERVICE DESK SUGGEST A STORY UNC BRAND IDENTITY UNC POLICIES About The Well Archives UNC.edu Contact Us Twitter © 2022 The Well