Skip to Navigation Skip to Content Toggle navigation UW Home Directories Calendar Libraries Maps My UW Search the UW Go Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese - Simplified)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Toggle navigation The Whole U Topics Being Active Eating Well Engaging Interests Financially Fit Life Events and Changes Staying Healthy Volunteerism Spotlight Whole U Program Information Promotions Discounts Healthy Living Counseling and Mental Health Ergonomics Financial Wellness Fitness at Work Managing Stress Meditations Nutrition Virtual Fitness SmartHealth Smoking Cessation Social Groups Events Whole U Events UW Athletic Events Virtual classes All Events Be the Match Podcast Videos COVID-19 resources Mini Fitness Self-Care Toolkit Speaker Series Strength Training Yoga & Flexibility About About the Program Ambassadors Fidelity Live Webinars Posted on April 6, 2020 by Anna Tegelberg. This entry was posted in Financially Fit, Whole U Program Information. Bookmark the permalink. Fidelity Investments offers a variety of financial education workshops to the University of Washington community. There are many ways to attend a class with Fidelity, whether you want to attend a virtual workshop specific for UW employees or find a short on-demand video. Learn about the many opportunities for financial education with Fidelity below. Note: For the time being, there are no in-person campus workshops. Table of Contents Workshops for University of Washington Employees Additional Virtual & On-Demand Workshops Workshop Topics and Descriptions to Explore Workshops for University of Washington Employees Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, The Whole U and UW Benefits welcomed Fidelity to our campus to present in-person seminars spanning a variety of financial wellness topics. For the time being, all in-person campus seminars are being offered virtually. These webinars cover a variety of topics and are open only to UW employees. View offerings below and be sure to register to receive the event link and final details. Identify and Prioritize Your Savings Goals June 14 – 11 a.m. June 16 – 12 p.m. Ask Fidelity: Short presentations with Q&A These presentations last 10-15 minutes and are followed by 10-15 minutes of Q&A. Register here for dates of interest: May 17 @ 10:00 a.m. – College Planning: Navigating the Road to Admissions May 23 @ 4:30 p.m. – Understanding the Basics of Social Security June 3 @ 12:00 p.m. – Put the Power of NetBenefits to Work for You June 7 @ 1:30 p.m. – Making your Money work as Hard as You Do June 14 @ 3:00 p.m. – Saving and Investing Beyond Your Retirement Plan June 20 @ 11:00 a.m. – How to Make the Most of your Retirement Savings Live, Web Workshops Alongside the specific University of Washington workshops, Fidelity offers a wide variety of live webinars for all of their clients to join for free. These webinars are offered at various times and dates each month. You can view a list of webinar topics and descriptions below, and see the live schedule by logging in to your NetBenefits account. On-Demand Workshops Too busy to make a live event? You can watch recordings of Fidelity educational workshops on-demand and at your leisure any time and any place from the NetBenefits website. Filter the event portal by On-Demand Workshops and select the topics that are of most interest to you. Workshop Topics and Descriptions Looking for something specific? Not sure what to expect? The following are webinar topics presented by Fidelity for a UW audience, as a live web workshop, and offered on-demand. Explore each topic below and be sure to search for the sessions of interest to you in your NetBenefits website. 2021 Manage Unexpected Events and Expenses 2021 Navigating Market Volatility Create a Budget, Ditch Your Debt, and Start Building for the Future Five Money Musts Get a Handle on Your Current Student Loan Debt Get Started and Save for the Future You Identify and Prioritize Your Savings Goals Invest Confidently for Your Future Learn the Basics of When and How to Claim Social Security Make the Most of Your Retirement Savings Maximize Social Security in Your Retirement Strategy Organize, plan & own your future – Making Financial Health a Priority for Women Prepare for the Reality of Health Care in Retirement Preserving Your Savings for Future Generations Quarterly Market Update Take the First Step to Investing Turn Your Savings Into Retirement Income Your College Savings Options Taking Control: 3 Ways to Start Feeling Good about Your Finances Manage Unexpected Events and Expenses What you will learn: With the current economic conditions, you may be evaluating how to make ends meet. This workshop will help you to learn: How to assess your spending and take control of your budget Considerations for taking money from a workplace savings plan Ways Fidelity can support you Navigating Market Volatility What you will learn: With the market’s recent downturns, you may be concerned about the retirement savings you’ve worked so hard to build potentially being in jeopardy. Get answers to questions like these: Should I change how I’m invested to something less risky? Should I move to cash right now? How do I pull my money out of the market? Why should I put more into my retirement savings plan? Create a Budget, Ditch Your Debt, and Start Building for the Future What you will learn: This workshop will educate you on strategies, tools, and tips for balancing paying down your debt with saving for future goals. After the workshop you should be able to: Identify the three core components of a sound budget Get control over prioritizing your debt Find ways to save more Who should attend: This workshop is intended for those who would like to learn more about managing their finances so they may be able to save more for retirement or other financial goals. Five Money Musts What you will learn: During this workshop, you will learn about five basic money concepts to help you start your financial journey on the right foot. After the workshop you should be able to: Understand what a budget is and why you need one Know how to use credit and manage debt Recognize how investing can help you reach your money goals Who should attend: Individuals who are just starting to think about how to manage their money Get a Handle on Your Current Student Loan Debt What you will learn: During this workshop, you will learn about a variety of student loan repayment options and strategies to help you find a better way to pay off your student debt. After the workshop you should be able to: Understand a wide range of student loan repayment options Use Fidelity’s helpful student debt resources and tools to evaluate your current loan situation and determine next steps for tackling your student debt Who should attend: Individuals with student loan debt who want to find a better way to pay it off. Get Started and Save for the Future You What you will learn: This workshop is designed for employees not participating in their workplace savings plan, or participants enrolled and not deferring the maximum amount or not taking advantage of their company match (if applicable). After the workshop you should be able to: Understand the benefits of enrolling in your workplace savings plan Learn the steps to enroll in your plan Estimate how much to save for retirement Recognize the benefits of increasing your contributions Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are not participating in their workplace savings plan or those who would like to learn how to save more. Identify and Prioritize Your Savings Goals What you will learn: This workshop will help you start to think about the savings goals that are important to you and understand how you can achieve them. After the workshop you should be able to: Identify, prioritize and fund your savings goals Understand where to save for each goal Take your next steps and save for your goals Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who want to save for multiple financial goals. Invest Confidently for Your Future What you will learn: This workshop will help you feel confident about your investments and understand how to build a long-term plan. After the workshop you should be able to: Define your savings goals Build an investment plan to help you optimize your savings Understand the importance of continuously managing your plan Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are interested in learning how to manage their investments. Learn the Basics of When and How to Claim Social Security What you will learn: This workshop will help you better understand your options for Social Security so that you can determine when and how to claim your benefit. After the workshop you should be able to: Understand how Social Security works Know considerations for how to claim your Social Security benefit Decide when to take your Social Security benefit Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are interested in learning about when to claim Social Security. Make the Most of Your Retirement Savings What you will learn: This workshop will help you learn how to maximize your retirement savings, as well as additional ways to save money for retirement beyond your workplace savings plan, and steps you can take today to get prepared for retirement. After the workshop you should be able to: Recognize the importance of saving as much as possible for retirement Know how much to save for retirement and the benefits of saving more Understand different account types you can use to save for retirement Learn ways to preserve and grow your savings to last throughout your lifetime Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are two to 10 years from retirement, are 55 years old or older, and who would like to learn how to develop a retirement income plan. Maximize Social Security in Your Retirement Strategy What you will learn: This workshop will help you learn about strategies for claiming your Social Security benefit and how it fits with other income sources to create your retirement paycheck. After the workshop you should be able to: Recognize how to use Social Security for your retirement paycheck Understand important Social Security claiming strategies Take the next step to create your retirement income plan Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are interested in learning how to get the most from their Social Security benefit and create their retirement paycheck. Organize, plan & own your future – Making Financial Health a Priority for Women What you will learn: This workshop is designed primarily for women investors. It will help you understand various investment options, determine your investing personality, and find the right investment mix for your goals. After the workshop you should have an understanding of: The principles of budgeting and saving How to design an investment plan to meet your unique goals How to keep your investment plan on track Who should attend: Participants who wish to take increased control of their finances, and move from savers, to investors. Prepare for the Reality of Health Care in Retirement What you will learn: This workshop will help you to understand the costs of health care in retirement, and how you can prepare for them. After the workshop you should be able to: Estimate your health care costs and factor them into your retirement paycheck Understand your options for health care coverage before and after age 65 Successfully plan for your retirement health care costs Who should attend: Individuals nearing retirement who want a better understanding of health care options in retirement. Preserving Your Savings for Future Generations What you will learn: This workshop will help you learn how to establish an estate plan and identify strategies to help preserve the assets you have accumulated to provide for those most important to you. After the workshop you should be able to: Understand the key components of an estate plan Know the importance of beneficiary designations Comprehend gifting and insurance replacement strategies Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are interested in learning about estate planning. Quarterly Market Update What you will learn: This presentation will provide you with an update on the financial markets. After the workshop you should be able to: Know what happened in the financial markets in the previous quarter Recognize how the different asset classes performed in the previous quarter Understand investment concepts that may help you with your investment strategy Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who want to learn more about the current market conditions and how they can impact an investment strategy. Take the First Step to Investing What you will learn: This workshop will help you understand key investing concepts, common investment types, how to select a mix of different investments, the benefits of investing in your workplace savings plan and how to choose your investment approach. After the workshop you should be able to: Understand the basics of investing Recognize the importance of asset allocation and diversification Identify your investment approach Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are interested in learning how to start investing. Turn Your Savings Into Retirement Income What you will learn: This workshop will help you learn why it’s important to have a plan for generating income in retirement, factors to consider when transitioning your savings into retirement income and how to develop a retirement income plan. After this workshop you should be able to: Recognize the benefits of having a retirement income plan Know important considerations for retirement income and expenses Understand which income strategies may fit your needs for retirement Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are nearing retirement and need help building an income plan. Your College Savings Options What you will learn: This workshop will review the various options for funding a college education and strategies to help you effectively plan and save. After the workshop you should be able to: Better understand the college finance system Create a plan to fund college savings Understand the different investment vehicles for college savings Who should attend: This workshop is for individuals who are interested in planning and saving for a college education. Taking Control: 3 Ways to Start Feeling Good about Your Finances What you will learn: Build your financial know-how from the ground up in a supportive environment and walk away with 3 specific to-dos: How to build your rainy day fund, prioritize your spending, and manage your debt. Hands-on activities help you craft a real-life financial plan and execute it right away. After the workshop you will be able do three things: Find the money to create your own rainy day fund and protect yourself from unplanned expenses or emergencies. Understand your spending so you know specifically where your paycheck is going and are confident that your spending aligns with your personal priorities. Make a plan to manage and pay down your debt. Who should attend: Individuals who are looking to get their financial situation back on track and are feeling motivated to change because of the emotional stress associated with: No rainy day fund in place to cushion for emergencies or unexpected expenses Feeling out of control with spending Overwhelmed by debt and unsure how to pay it down, once and for all Search This Site Search Recent Posts Meet Ethnomusicologist Christina Sunardi Exploring Your TMJ: Clenching & Grinding Jaw Got You Down? The Powerful Health Benefits of Citrus Fruits UW Walk Week 2022 UW Fitness Day: Meet Your Coaches Part V Archives May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 August 2019 July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 Categories Being Active Eating Well Engaging Interests Faculty Friday Financially Fit Life Events and Changes Media Inquiries Promotions Spotlight Staff Stories Staying Healthy Volunteerism Whole U Program Information Follow Us Twitter Instagram Facebook RSS Feed Toggle navigation © 2022 University of Washington Contact Us Jobs My UW Translation disclaimer Rules Docket Privacy Terms