myND We Are ND ThinkND FaithND IrishCompass About Subscribe Resources Search Events Topics Podcasts Talks Series learn more learn more learn more Inspire your mind and spark conversations. Explore free lectures, podcasts, articles, and courses from the Alumni Association, Notre Dame faculty, and experts. learn more What interests you? Featured view all The Way of the Cross: A Passion Pilgrimage Through Song – A Broadcast from Jerusalem: A Passion Pilgrimage to the Holy Land TODAY FROM JERUSALEM: We conclude our journey with the series The Way of the Cross: A Passion Pilgrimage Through Song and we invite you to join a pilgrimage to the Holy Land... view The Way of the Cross: A Passion Pilgrimage Through Song – Memory and Mourning: The Passion in Our Lenten and Easter Journey Led by Grammy® Award winner and Director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir Dr. J.J. Wright, this series will introduce The Passion, a new artistic production combining Scripture... view The Way of the Cross: A Passion Pilgrimage Through Song – The Passion in Our Daily Lives Led by Grammy® Award winner and Director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir Dr. J.J. Wright, this series will introduce The Passion, a new artistic production combining Scripture... view The Way of the Cross: A Passion Pilgrimage Through Song – The Upper Room: Art & Sacrament Led by Grammy® Award winner and Director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir Dr. J.J. Wright, this series will introduce The Passion, a new artistic production combining Scripture... view The Way of the Cross: A Passion Pilgrimage Through Song – Storytelling Through Song Led by Grammy® Award winner and Director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir Dr. J.J. Wright, this series will introduce The Passion, a new artistic production combining Scripture... view Subscribe to ThinkND Sign up to receive the latest insights from ThinkND in a periodic email full of fresh ideas: Please leave this field empty First name Last name Email * Thank you for subscribing to ThinkND. Add think@nd.edu to your email contact list and check your spam folder to ensure delivery. In the Spotlight Explore lecture series and programs that publish new content on a regular basis. view all Black@ND BLACK@ND is a podcast where we discuss the experiences of Notre Dame’s African American students,... View Series Think. Pair. Share. Think. Pair. Share. is a modern education podcast that explores learning—from the everyday... View Series More from Notre Dame ND News by Shannon Roddel Disclosures on auditor firings are useless in forecasting restatement trouble, study shows While most seasoned investors realize that companies tend to be cagey about their reasons for firing auditors, research from Jeffrey Burks finds the disclosures are useless to an extreme.... Full story ND in the News by Associated Press Rare Starbucks union vote set to begin in Buffalo Dan Graff, director of the Higgins Labor Program at the University of Notre Dame, said many workers are burned out and tired of playing by the pre-coronavirus rules. ... Full story Sign up to receive the latest insights from ThinkND in your inbox: Please leave this field empty First name Last name Email * Thank you for subscribing! Add think@nd.edu to your email contact list and check your spam folder to ensure delivery. Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Alumni Association 100 Eck Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574-631-6000 | think@nd.edu Accessibility Login Scroll Up