myND We Are ND ThinkND FaithND IrishCompass About Subscribe Resources Search Events Topics Podcasts Talks Series Home Topics Human Dignity, Belonging, and Caring for Others Human Dignity, Belonging, and Caring for Others Presented by Center for Social Concerns Finding community in college can be difficult, but it can be especially difficult when you feel like you don’t belong. Shelene shares the struggles she faced her first few years at Notre Dame finding a sense of belonging, especially as a first generation American and the daughter of immigrant parents from St. Croix and Cameroon. Shelene shares how she unpacked these experiences in her McNeill Fellows capstone and how she has since been committed to recognizing the human dignity of every person and authentically care for others. She has done this throughout her college career participating in the SSLP, ISSLP, and McNeill Leadership Fellows Program. 0 Likes Share About the Podcast: The Signs of the Times Podcast presented by the Center of Social Concerns discusses principles of human dignity, solidarity with the marginalized, and the common good as they relate to current events. Learn More October 2, 2019 Global AffairsHealth and SocietyThe Signs of the TimesMcNeill Leadership Fellows ProgramBA of NDCenter for Social ConcernsCommunityDiversityInternationalService Related Content Religion and Philosophy Virtues and Vocations presents Zena Hitz: “Educating for Flourishing” Virtues & Vocations is a national forum hosted by the Center for Social Concerns at the University of Notre for scholars and practitioners across disciplines to consider how best... View Event Health and Society Week 8: April 7 Q: Would you donate to #NotreDame? A: Uhh, why would I donate to a school that funds private prisons? Host: Emorja Roberson Co-hosts: Euda Fils, Daut’e Martin Listen to Podcast Health and Society Week 10: April 28 After a two-year run, the crew moves on to a new chapter in life. Where are we off to next? Host: Emorja Roberson Co-hosts: Euda Fils, Daut’e Martin, Jeremy Yoder, Kate Quinn,... Listen to Podcast Sign up to receive the latest insights from ThinkND in your inbox: Please leave this field empty First name Last name Email * Thank you for subscribing! Add think@nd.edu to your email contact list and check your spam folder to ensure delivery. Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Alumni Association 100 Eck Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574-631-6000 | think@nd.edu Accessibility Login Scroll Up