Skip to content Toggle navigation Title IX Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Home What is Title IX? The Law Sexual Violence and Harassment Sex/Gender Discrimination Athletics Myths about Title IX First Amendment & Academic Freedom Policies Sexual Misconduct Policy USG Policy to Prohibit Discrimination & Harassment (HRAP) Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy Retaliation Student Code of Conduct Confidentiality Resources Resources Generally Victims/Complainants: What You Need to Know Resources for Respondents (Accused) Law Enforcement Hearing Panelists Support/Assistance Interim Measures Sexual Misconduct Q & A Training Materials VOICE Title IX & STEM Promising Practices for STEM A Guide for Conducting Title IX Self-Evaluations in STEM Programs Nat'l Science Foundation - Sexual Harassment Contact Us SUBMIT A COMPLAINT/REPORT Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy Harassment in any form is prohibited at the Georgia Institute of Technology. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests. This prohibition does not infringe upon free speech or other civil rights of any individual or group. This prohibition enables Georgia Tech to comply with federal and state non-discrimination laws, including Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972 (Title IX), which prohibits the Institute from discriminating on the basis of sex in its educational programs and activities. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, gender-based denigration, and other verbal, non-verbal, or physical conduct of a sexual or gender-based nature, when: Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment or status in a course, program, or activity. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as a basis or condition of an individual’s employment or status in a course, program, or activity; o. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work or educational performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment for working, learning, or living on campus. Sexual harassment can occur between any individuals associated with the Institute, e.g., an employee and a supervisor; coworkers; faculty members; a faculty, staff member, or student and a customer, vendor, or contractor; students; or a student and a faculty member. Each situation must be considered in context to determine if sexual harassment has occurred. Conduct must be severe or pervasive in order to create a hostile environment; conduct may be inappropriate, unprofessional, offensive, or hurtful, yet not be harassment under Institute policy. The more severe the harassment, the less a pattern of harassment must be present. Sexual harassment may occur between persons of the same sex or members of different sexes. Workplace and Family and Relationship Violence The Georgia Institute of Technology is committed to providing faculty, staff, and students with an environment that is safe, secure and free from threats, intimidation and violence. This includes providing a supportive workplace in which employees can discuss workplace and family and relationship violence occurring in their lives and seek assistance with those concerns. Our goal is to provide a workplace in which violence of any kind is neither tolerated nor excused. Reporting The Institute cannot fulfill its ethical commitment to create a harassment-free environment or its legal obligations to address harassment that occurs unless allegations and complaints are brought to the attention of an appropriate Institute official. Reporting Sexual Harassment. Employees should promptly report sexual harassment complaints and reports of which they become aware. This means that if you are an employee and someone tells you that he or she has been sexually harassed, or if you are given or told about a sexual harassment complaint or report, you should bring this to the attention of the Office of Human Resources, the Institute's Title IX Coordinator, or one of the Institute's Deputy Title IX Coordinators. Employees also should report promptly any incident or situation that a reasonable person would understand to be sexual harassment, whether they witness the incident or situation or become aware of it. This means that if you are an employee and you see someone sexually harassing another person, or you learn of a situation that constitutes sexual harassment, you should bring this to the attention of the appropriate Institute official. The Institute's policies prohibiting sexual harassment may be found in the Institute's policy library at http://policies.gatech.edu. Information regarding harassment and discrimination may also be found at the following link: Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login