retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home Terms and Concepts Terms and Concepts Sexual Violence Any kind of sexual contact against a person's will and without consent. It can happen to anyone, and it is not the fault of the person who has been harmed. It can be perpetrated by someone you know and trust, and it can happen in the workplace or educational environment. Sex discrimination and sexual violence can affect anyone, no matter your gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, ability status, race, ethnicity, religion, spirituality, immigration status, or any other part of your identity. University policy defines consent, sex discrimination, and sexual misconduct behaviors that are prohibited. To read how the University defines these behaviors, please see the Policies page. Voices Against Violence Learn more about sexual violence, interpersonal violence, consent, and healthy relationships. Read More CLASE: Cultivating Learning and Safe Environments The Institute on Domestic Violence & Sexual Assault (IDVSA) at UT Austin has conducted the most in-depth survey of sexual assault and sexual misconduct of any university in the nation. The CLASE Report provides specific data about the experiences of UT students while at UT Austin. CLASE Report Marginalized Communities Here at UT Austin, we recognize that our community members who hold marginalized identities are at higher risk for sexual violence and have more barriers to accessing services. We are committed to centering the experiences and needs of those in our community whose identities are at the margins and to making sure that our process is accessible to every Longhorn. About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Contact Us Location: University Administration Building (UTA) 2.507 1616 Guadalupe Street Suite 2.507 Austin, Texas 78701 Email: titleix@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-0419 TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022