retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home Campus Resources Campus Resources Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Confidential Campus Resources University Health Services (UHS) Provides confidential medical care, testing for sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy, x-rays, medical exams, and emergency contraception. Provides a private space for a forensic medical exams by a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE), and provides patient education to students. Appointments: 512-471-4955 Nurse Advice Line: 512-475-6877 Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) Provides counseling and advocacy services to give information about safety, legal, housing, academic, and medical options. Manages the Voices Against Violence Survivor Emergency Fund. Offers individual and group counseling services. Appointments: 512-471-3515 24/7 Crisis Line: 512-471-2255 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Offers confidential brief counseling sessions, crisis intervention, and assessment and referrals for benefits-eligible employees. Available following any trauma or crisis experienced by an employee. Appointments: 512-471-3366 After-hours: 512-471-3399 Legal Services for Students (LSS) Provides free legal consultations, referrals, and possible representation. Limitations: LSS cannot advise students in disputes against the University, or in issues between University community members. 512-471-7796 University Ombuds Provides a neutral, informal, and independent space for information about university resources and processes for student staff, and faculty. Provides a space to discuss interpersonal difficulties, university policies, university bureaucracy, and conflict resolution techniques. Help identify options and seek resolution. Ombuds is a confidential resource for students, but not for faculty and staff. For students and staff: 512-471-3825 For faculty: 512-471-5866 Victims Advocate Network The Victims Advocate Network (VAN) is a group of volunteers comprised of UT Faculty and Staff to serve staff, students, and visitors impacted by crime or other distressing events on campus. VAN is a 24/7 on-call network that responds at the request of UT police officers. VAN provides Mental Health First Aid and linkage to the appropriate campus or community resources for ongoing support. VAN is a confidential resource for students, but not for faculty and staff. You may contact the VAN by calling 512-232-9699. Center for Students in Recovery CSR's Campus Open Recovery is a confidential 12-step meeting. These meetings are an opportunity for social support that focuses on the hope and healing found in recovery and to connect with others who are initiating and maintaining a recovery lifestyle. Domestic Violence Clinic The Domestic Violence Clinic provides legal services for victims of domestic violence with a with a variety of civil legal problems including custody, divorce, visitation, housing, consumer, public assistance, and procurement of protective orders. Visit the Domestic Violence Clinic website for more information. School of Law Experiential Learning Clinics Clinic students provide legal services directly or work closely with faculty members to represent clients during the preparation, trial, and appeal of cases in litigation or in law-related transactions and projects. Visit the Experiential Learning Clinics website for more information. Confidential Advocates Trained professional staff who offer private support to students who have been impacted by interpersonal violence. Serves as an advocate and is available to answer questions, discuss reporting options, what to expect of an investigation, and assist with coordinating academic, financial and housing remedies. Provides referrals within the University and in the Austin area when necessary. 512-232-2860 Interpersonal Violence Peer Support (IVPS) Trained students offer peer-based support to students impacted by interpersonal violence. 512-471-6147 Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) SSD works with students with temporary and permanent disabilities (including medical conditions and mental health diagnoses) to ensure equal access to the UT experience. SSD coordinates several types of accommodations for students, including academic accommodations and campus housing accommodations. Other resources provided through SSD include student groups, organizations and scholarships. Confidential Healthcare, Medical, and Mental Health Resources View a list of confidential healthcare resources offered by the University of Texas at Austin Find Providers Here TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022