retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home Title IX and Prohibited Conduct Grievance Processes Title IX and Prohibited Conduct Grievance Processes To review the grievance processes for a Title IX related report or Formal Complaint, visit the revised HOP 3-3031: Prohibition of Sexual Assault, Interpersonal Violence, Stalking, Sexual Harassment, and Sex Discrimination Grievance Process: Track A, Track B, and Track C Authorization for Release of Information Form Your Rights As a Complainant or a Respondent, you have the following rights during an investigation: To be informed of and have access to counseling, medical, academic, and other applicable support services, including confidential resources. To be informed of the importance of a victim going to a hospital for treatment and the preservation of evidence, if applicable, as soon as practicable after an alleged incident. To be informed of a notice of a formal complaint to the University, whether filed by a complainant or the Title IX Coordinator. To receive a prompt, fair, equitable, and impartial grievance process. To receive information and ask questions about the formal and informal processes available. To be given equal chance to participate in a grievance process, including the opportunity to identify witnesses and other relevant evidence. To choose not to actively participate in the grievance process, if desired. To have an advisor of choice present during all meetings and grievance proceedings. To have an advisor provided for a party at a hearing under the Title IX grievance process, if an advisor of choice is not present. To have access and equal opportunity to inspect and review any evidence obtained as part of the investigation, and to receive a copy of the completed investigation report. To be equally informed of any determinations regarding responsibility, dismissals of formal complaints, and/or a party’s filing of an appeal. To appeal a determination regarding responsibility and/or dismissals of formal complaints. To file a report with local and/or campus law enforcement authorities View HOP 3-3031 Submit a Report Online Contact Us Location: University Administration Building (UTA) 2.507 1616 Guadalupe Street Suite 2.507 Austin, Texas 78701 Email: titleix@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-0419 TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022