Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Promoting Equity at Cornell Spotlights, News and Announcements Navigation Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement (Notice of Non-Discrimination) Resources for Support Confidential Resources SHARE New York City-Based Resources Emergency Medical Assistance Non-Cornell Assistance Government Organizations Procedural Advisors Legal Advice Law Enforcement Order of Protection Supportive Measures Immigration/Visa Resources EEO Posters Reporting Report to Cornell Report to the Police Report Anonymously Student Bill of Rights & Your Rights Statement Amnesty Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Preservation of Evidence Process Privacy Under Policy 6.4 Bias Reporting Policy 6.3 FAQs for Policy 6.3 Policy 6.4 Current Policy 6.4 Procedures Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 3/14/2022) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 9/1/2021) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 8/14/2020) Forms for Parties in a Complaint Against a Student or Employee Education and Prevention Get Involved Statistics 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2014-2016 About Us HomeArchive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements [Originally posted October 2021] October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Please click here to learn more about how you can join Cornell in taking a stand against Domestic Violence. Watch this short clip as Michelle Artibee and Jeremy Stewart open up their Wellbeing@Work Interview Series, asking their two guests, LaDreena Walton and Kristi Taylor, what it means for them to be healthy in the relationship dimension of wellbeing. Domestic Violence 24/7 Hotlines: Advocacy Center of Tompkins County 24/7 Hotline: 607-277-5000; http://www.theadvocacycenter.org/ New York State Domestic Violence Hotline 24/7 Hotline: 1-800-942-6906; TTY 711; http://www.opdv.ny.gov/help/dvhotlines.html The National Domestic Violence Hotline 24/7 Hotline: 1-800-799-7233; TTY 1-800-787-3224; www.thehotline.org [Originally posted August 2021] HR300 – Responsibility@Cornell The new version of HR300 – Responsibility@Cornell was assigned to all Cornell faculty, staff and student employees via CULearn on August 25, 2021. This program meets the New York State annual sexual harassment training requirement for all employees as well as federal requirements for new employees. This 45-minute online training program has been redeveloped for 2021 by the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX (OIETIX) through eCornell and features scenario-based monologues from the Cornell Interactive Theatre Ensemble. The course provides important information about our responsibilities to prevent and respond to sexual harassment in the workplace and about consensual relationships between faculty members, staff members, or others in positions of authority and students or postgraduates. The training must be completed by October 15, 2021. We anticipate that next year a shortened refresher training will be available to employees who complete this course. Technical Support You may need to enable pop-ups to launch the course. Please follow this link if you need assistance. Use the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. If you have browser trouble, please contact your local IT support and include the browser information. If a Launch button does not appear next to HR300 Responsibility@Cornell under Learning & Certifications section on the “Me” tab in CULearn, submit a help ticket to culearn@cornell.edu. [Originally posted June 2021] Celebrate Juneteenth! Juneteenth, the oldest nationally recognized commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States, is celebrated on June 19. Beginning last year, Cornell made Juneteenth a holiday for Ithaca and Cornell Tech faculty and staff to read, reflect, and engage in conversations with family, friends, and colleagues. This year, the University will observe Juneteenth on Friday, June 18. [Originally posted on March 15, 2021] Statement about the Executive Order on Guaranteeing an Educational Environment Free from Discrimination on the Basis of Sex, including Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity, and Cornell University Policy 6.4 (Interim) On March 8, 2021, President Biden signed the Executive Order on Guaranteeing an Educational Environment Free from Discrimination on the Basis of Sex, including Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity. The Executive Order directs the Department of Education to review all of its existing regulations, orders, guidance, and policies to ensure consistency with the Biden-Harris Administration’s policy that students be guaranteed education free from sexual violence. It also directs the Department of Education to specifically evaluate the Title IX regulations issued under the previous administration and agency action taken pursuant to those regulations, to determine whether the regulations and agency action are consistent with the policies of the Biden-Harris Administration. Last year, Cornell revised Policy 6.4 (“Prohibited Bias, Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual and Related Misconduct”) and its Procedures on an interim basis to comply with the Title IX regulations which took effect August 14, 2020. Following the start of the fall semester, the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX (OIETIX) convened a stakeholder review group to gather campus community input. The policy executives group considered the input and decided to extend the interim status to monitor developments at the federal level. Because the changes made to Policy 6.4 were required by the Title IX regulations, such as oral cross-examination in hearings, it is necessary and important for the University to consider whether such changes will continue to be required for legal compliance. Consistent with the recommendations through the stakeholder review, the following updates and corrections, which are non-substantive and unrelated to the Title IX regulations, will be made to Policy 6.4: Listing all of the legally protected identities/statuses in the Statement of Policy (e.g., age, color, disability, gender identity, race, sex, etc.) and updating the definition of EEEO-Protected Status accordingly Adding the Prohibited Conduct definitions to the Policy (previously, the definitions were included in the Procedures only) Including a brief description of the process for responding to bias incidents Making updates to contact information We anticipate that the above items will be reflected in an updated interim version published in the Policy Library this semester. OIETIX will continue to monitor federal developments under the Executive Order and provides updates here for the Cornell community. Contact Us Cornell University Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Day Hall, Suite 500 (Fifth Floor) 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Report an Incident © 2014 Cornell University Facebook Twitter YouTube Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search