Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Promoting Equity at Cornell Resources for Support Navigation Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement (Notice of Non-Discrimination) Resources for Support Confidential Resources SHARE New York City-Based Resources Emergency Medical Assistance Non-Cornell Assistance Government Organizations Procedural Advisors Legal Advice Law Enforcement Order of Protection Supportive Measures Immigration/Visa Resources EEO Posters Reporting Report to Cornell Report to the Police Report Anonymously Student Bill of Rights & Your Rights Statement Amnesty Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Preservation of Evidence Process Privacy Under Policy 6.4 Bias Reporting Policy 6.3 FAQs for Policy 6.3 Policy 6.4 Current Policy 6.4 Procedures Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 3/14/2022) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 9/1/2021) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 8/14/2020) Forms for Parties in a Complaint Against a Student or Employee Education and Prevention Get Involved Statistics 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2014-2016 About Us HomeResources for SupportEmergency Medical Assistance Emergency Medical Assistance An individual who experiences sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, or other forms of sexual misconduct is strongly encouraged to seek immediate medical assistance. Students are not required to report an incident to law enforcement or Cornell in order to receive medical attention or a forensic exam. Regardless of whether a forensic exam is obtained after a sexual assault, individuals are encouraged to seek follow-up care to address any ongoing medical concerns, including those related to sexually-transmitted infections and pregnancy. Students may access care at Cornell Health, or through any appropriate health care provider outside of Cornell. Cornell Health https://health.cornell.edu/ 110 Ho Plaza Ithaca, NY 14853-3101 Telephone: 607-255-5155 If you have an urgent physical or mental health concern – for yourself or for someone else – you can call Cornell Health 24/7 at 607-255-5155. A health care provider (from Cornell Health or their designated on-call service) will help you determine what care is needed, and how, when, and where to get it. Cayuga Medical Center at Ithaca http://www.cayugamed.org/ 101 Dates Drive Ithaca, NY 14850 Telephone: 607-274-4011 The Cayuga Medical Center is the nearest hospital to the Ithaca Campus where an individual can receive a forensic sexual assault examination by a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (also known as a “SANE Nurse”). SANE Nurses can assess injuries related to physical trauma; evaluate for sexually-transmitted infections and possible pregnancy; provide medical care (including medications to prevent infections and pregnancy); and can, within the first 96 hours after a sexual assault, administer a “forensic exam.” During the forensic exam, the SANE Nurse documents and collects evidence of sexual contact and/or physical trauma (including injuries to the body and genitals), trace evidence, biological fluids, and identifiable DNA. When there is reason to believe that an assault may have been facilitated by the use of drugs or alcohol, the forensic exam may also include the collection of urine and blood samples for toxicology testing. For more information, see State of New York Protocol for the Acute Care of the Adult Patient Reporting Sexual Assault (https://www.health.ny.gov/professionals/protocols_and_guidelines/sexual_assault/docs/adult_protocol.pdf). New York City Campuses In an emergency, call 911. Weill Cornell Medical College Students, staff and faculty at Weill Cornell Medical School should access the Weill Cornell sexual misconduct website for New York City resources and reporting options. Cornell Tech At Cornell Tech, students, staff and faculty interested in reporting and resource/support options, should contact Jacqueline Klein, Director of Student Services. They can assist with accessing local resources and support services in NYC or Ithaca, and connect individuals to the University Title IX Coordinator. For more information about student health and wellness at Cornell Tech, please visit: https://studentservices.tech.cornell.edu/health-wellness/nyc-health-resources/. Contact Us Cornell University Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Day Hall, Suite 500 (Fifth Floor) 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Report an Incident © 2014 Cornell University Facebook Twitter YouTube Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search