Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Promoting Equity at Cornell Reporting Navigation Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement (Notice of Non-Discrimination) Resources for Support Confidential Resources SHARE New York City-Based Resources Emergency Medical Assistance Non-Cornell Assistance Government Organizations Procedural Advisors Legal Advice Law Enforcement Order of Protection Supportive Measures Immigration/Visa Resources EEO Posters Reporting Report to Cornell Report to the Police Report Anonymously Student Bill of Rights & Your Rights Statement Amnesty Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Preservation of Evidence Process Privacy Under Policy 6.4 Bias Reporting Policy 6.3 FAQs for Policy 6.3 Policy 6.4 Current Policy 6.4 Procedures Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 3/14/2022) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 9/1/2021) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 8/14/2020) Forms for Parties in a Complaint Against a Student or Employee Education and Prevention Get Involved Statistics 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2014-2016 About Us HomeReportingReport to Cornell Report to Cornell Cornell strongly encourages individuals who have experienced, have knowledge of, or have witnessed gender-based harassment, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, or other forms of sexual and related misconduct committed by or against students, staff, or faculty to report the incident immediately to the University. For sexual and related misconduct—including gender-based harassment, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, or other forms of sexual misconduct—report the incident through the following options: By contacting the University’s Title IX Coordinator or any Deputy Title IX Coordinator by telephone, email, or in person during regular office hours. See contact information for Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Staff. By emailing: titleix@cornell.edu Submit an incident report online. By contacting the Cornell University Police Department (CUPD) at (607) 255-1111 or 911 for emergency assistance. The University strongly supports a complainant’s desire for confidentiality or decision not to pursue resolution under Policy 6.4. If the complainant decides not to pursue resolution under Policy 6.4, the University will honor the complainant’s request if doing so does not impact the University’s ability to provide a safe and non-discriminatory environment for all members of the University community, including the complainant. Regardless of whether the complainant requests confidentiality or decides not to pursue resolution under Policy 6.4, the Title IX Coordinator will assist the complainant with reasonable and available accommodations, which may include academic, housing, transportation, employment, and other accommodations. (See Supportive Measures for more information about accommodations and protective measures). These accommodations will vary depending on the nature of the reported prohibited conduct and the wishes of the complainant regarding confidentiality. If any such accommodation impacts the respondent, the respondent will be provided with written notice of the report, which includes, as known, the date, time, and location of the alleged prohibited conduct and the underlying factual allegations. Therefore, certain accommodations may not be available if the complainant wishes to maintain confidentiality. Students should be aware that all disclosures of gender-based harassment, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, or other forms of sexual and related misconduct to a staff or faculty member will be reported, as required by Cornell Policy 6.4, to the Title IX Coordinator. All Cornell offices and employees who cannot guarantee confidentiality will maintain your privacy to the greatest extent possible. The information you provide to a nonconfidential resource will be relayed only as necessary for the Title IX Coordinator to investigate and/or seek a resolution. The Title IX Coordinators will maintain privacy to the greatest extent possible, but are not confidential resources. For confidential help, please see the list of confidential resources. Contact Us Cornell University Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Day Hall, Suite 500 (Fifth Floor) 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Report an Incident © 2014 Cornell University Facebook Twitter YouTube Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search