retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home Support & Resources Support & Resources Email Support & Resources Call 512-471-0419 Submit a Report Online The Title IX Support and Resources case managers work with all parties (students, faculty, and staff) involved in a matter reported to the Title IX Office to provide accommodations, support, and resources in a variety of ways. Some examples include, but are not limited to: Notifying faculty for a student’s absences or missed work Advocating for flexibility in assignments or deadlines Facilitating workplace accommodations Making referrals to resources both on and off campus to meet an individual’s needs of personal health, safety, and security Assisting parties in understanding the complaint and grievance process from start to finish Connecting both Complainants and Respondents with Advisors provided by the University, if desired or needed Title IX Support and Resources strives to offer fair, equitable, and individualized support to Complainants, Respondents, and Witnesses affected by Title IX-related matters. Title IX Support and Resources case managers are able to refer individuals to critical resources on campus and in the community. Although Title IX Support and Resources case management is non-confidential, case managers can refer individuals to confidential resources. If you are interested in getting connected with Title IX Support and Resources, please email supportandresources@austin.utexas.edu. Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Get Help Complainants Respondents Third Parties Supporting a Survivor Mandatory Reporters If you are experiencing an emergency or imminent threat to yourself or others, call 911. If you are in need of immediate assistance and would like to speak with a trained staff member that is available 24/7 to address behavior concerns, please call BCCAL at 512-232-5050. If you are a student with an immediate mental health concern and need to speak to a trained counselor available 24/7, call the Counseling and Mental Health Center Crisis Line at 512-471-2255. For all other Title IX-related matters that are not urgent in nature and do not require immediate follow up after normal business hours, please submit a report online. Non-Confidential Campus Resources Student Emergency Services (SES) Helps students during difficult and emergency situations. Coordinates remedies and academic flexibility for all students. Provides emergency funds, short-term/emergency shelter, resources/referrals, and coordination with other relevant departments. 512-471-5017 Behavior Concerns Advice Line (BCAL) For assistance when there is a concern for an individuals' behavior. Offers a centralized resource that is available 24/7. Callers can remain anonymous. 512-232-5050 Student Conduct & Academic Integrity Administers the student conduct process for policy violations. 512-471-2841 Conflict Management & Dispute Resolution Office Offers informal and restorative processes for resolution of appropriate cases involving employees. 512-471-6638 Human Resources For employee complaints, and to find your HR Representative. 512-471-4772 Sure Walk Volunteers will escort students safely to anywhere on-campus and close off-campus residencies. 512-232-9255 UT Night Rides Use Lyft anywhere on campus or close to campus for a free ride home between 11pm-4am. TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022