About About Title IX Glossary of Terms Athletics and Title IX Title IX News Get Help Now Get Help Now – College Station Get Help Now – Galveston Get Help Now – Qatar Get Help Now – Other Title IX Advisors Investigation Process Process Overview Prohibited Conduct Student Sanctioning Matrix Make a Report Education & Training Our Team Our Stats Get Help Now Make a Report Investigation Process Search for: Skip to main content Skip to footer Title IX at Texas A&M Department of Civil Rights & Equity Investigations Menu Header Right Make a Report Understand the Process Get Help About About Title IX Glossary of Terms Athletics and Title IX Title IX News Get Help Now Get Help Now – College Station Get Help Now – Galveston Get Help Now – Qatar Get Help Now – Other Title IX Advisors Investigation Process Process Overview Prohibited Conduct Student Sanctioning Matrix Make a Report Education & Training Our Team Our Stats Search Search for:Search Button Main Content Title IX at Texas A&M University Title IX is a federal law that prohibits sexual harassment, sexual violence, and discrimination on the basis of sex. Make a Report Understand the Process Get Help Now What is Title IX? Title IX of the Education Amendment of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs and activities at federally funded institutions. Title IX protects students, faculty, staff, and visitors to our campus from all forms of sex discrimination. Sexual harassment, including sexual violence, is a form of sex discrimination and is prohibited under Title IX. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, and nonverbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when this conduct is so severe, persistent or pervasive that it affects an individual’s employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual’s work or educational performance, or creates an intimidating or hostile work or educational environment. Information for… Complainants Respondents Witnesses Parents Advisors Mandatory Reporters Anonymous Reporters Our Commitment to You Six core values are at the heart of what Texas A&M is all about: loyalty, integrity, excellence, leadership, respect, and selfless service. These principals define the way members of our community should interact with each other, which means that sex-based discrimination, harassment (including sexual violence) and related retaliation have no place at Texas A&M. Texas A&M University will promptly address all complaints of sex-based discrimination, harassment, and related retaliation made by or against faculty, staff, students, guests and vendors in accordance with our policies and applicable federal and state laws. Texas A&M University recognizes the constitutional right of free speech and promotes the open exchange of ideas. These principals stimulate debate, which is essential to a rich learning environment. While members of the University community cannot be compelled to engage only in civil discourse, the search for knowledge and truth is best obtained in an environment that models intellectual inquiry, not bellicose comportment. Title IX in the News Aggie Band’s First Female Bass Drummer Talks About Demands, Honor Of The Job October 22, 2021October 22, 2021 Texas A&M University Urges Safety Precautions, Respect As ‘Red Zone’ Period Is Underway September 15, 2021September 15, 2021 Dr. Kathy Banks Becomes 26th President Of Texas A&M University April 1, 2021April 1, 2021 Texas A&M Title IX Officer Jennifer Smith, JD, is the Title IX Officer for Texas A&M University. Her responsibilities include oversight, leadership, and coordination for Title IX compliance efforts regarding discrimination based on sex, sexual harassment (including sexual violence), and related retaliation and for supporting a safe and respectful academic, working, and living environment. You can reach out to Jennifer at any time with questions about Title IX. Jennifer Smith, JD ☎ (979) 458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu 🏢 Medical Sciences Library, Suite 007 Meet Our Civil Rights & Equity Investigations Team Department of Civil Rights and Equity Investigations The Department of Civil Rights and Equity Investigations (CREI) is charged with the investigation and resolution of alleged violations of Texas A&M University’s civil rights policies, including Title IX. This includes instances of sex-based discrimination, harassment (including sexual violence) and related retaliation when this conduct is so severe, persistent or pervasive that it explicitly or implicitly affects an individual’s employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual’s work or educational performance, or creates an intimidating or hostile work or educational environment. Conduct which is not severe, persistent or pervasive may still be a violation of other University policies, and when appropriate, CREI will partner with other University entities to address such conduct. Site Footer Location Medical Sciences Library Suite 007 | MS 1268 TAMU 202 Olsen Blvd College Station, TX 77843-4462 Contact Us ☎ 979-458-8407 ✉ civilrights@tamu.edu Bus Routes #03: YELL PRACTICE #06: 12TH MAN #09: VET SCHOOL (All have a stop at Wehner) Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud