Skip to content Toggle navigation Title IX Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Home What is Title IX? The Law Sexual Violence and Harassment Sex/Gender Discrimination Athletics Myths about Title IX First Amendment & Academic Freedom Policies Sexual Misconduct Policy USG Policy to Prohibit Discrimination & Harassment (HRAP) Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy Retaliation Student Code of Conduct Confidentiality Resources Resources Generally Victims/Complainants: What You Need to Know Resources for Respondents (Accused) Law Enforcement Hearing Panelists Support/Assistance Interim Measures Sexual Misconduct Q & A Training Materials VOICE Title IX & STEM Promising Practices for STEM A Guide for Conducting Title IX Self-Evaluations in STEM Programs Nat'l Science Foundation - Sexual Harassment Contact Us SUBMIT A COMPLAINT/REPORT Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Law Enforcement Students, faculty and staff who are victims of or witnesses to sexual assault, stalking, domestic or dating violence are strongly encouraged to report the incident(s) to law enforcement in the jurisdiction in which the incident(s) occurred. To report an assault or another crime to the Georgia Tech Police Department (GTPD), please call (404) 894-2500.You can also contact GTPD via the LiveSafe app, which you can download for free from the App store or Google Play. If you are a victim-survivor of sexual violence and need the urgent support of a VOICE Advocate, call GTPD at (404) 894-2500 and ask to speak to the On-Call Advocate. You do not need to make a police report or provide any information other than your phone number. Reporting an assault to the Georgia Tech Police Department (GTPD) or other law enforcement or campus security authorities does not require filing criminal charges, but it does allow all support systems to be put in place for the survivor. Filing a police report will provide the opportunity for collection of evidence, which is helpful in prosecution and will allow the survivor to be connected with the appropriate support and medical resources. Reporting is best done as soon as possible after the assault, but it may be done at any time. Students, faculty and staff who choose to notify the police should be aware of the importance of the immediacy of reporting the incident and the importance of preserving physical evidence at the incident scene as well as on the person harmed. If possible, a victim of sexual assault should not wash, douche, use the toilet, or change clothing prior to a medical/legal examination. The gathering of physical evidence can provide important evidence and support of criminal charges leading to a successful prosecution. Photographing your injuries and saving relevant texts, emails, screenshots or other types of evidence may also be helpful if you choose to pursue a criminal or administrative investigation. Survivors who are reporting an immediate assault should be accompanied to a health care facility of their choice to allow for collection of evidence and treatment. If a sexual assault victim chooses to report the incident days, weeks, or even months after the assault, important support systems are still available and can be arranged; however, criminal investigations become much more difficult. THE GEORGIA TECH CRIME VICTIM BILL OF RIGHTS At Georgia Tech, victims of crimes, including sex crimes, have the right to: 1) Reasonable, accurate and timely notice of any scheduled court proceedings or any changes to such proceedings. 2) Reasonable, accurate and timely notice of the arrest, release or escape of the accused. 3) Not to be excluded from any scheduled court proceedings involving the accused, except as otherwise provided by law. 4) Be heard at any scheduled court proceedings involving the release, plea or sentencing of the accused. 5) File a written objection in any parole proceedings involving the accused. 6) Confer with the prosecuting attorney in any criminal prosecution related to the victim. 7) Restitution as provided by law. 8) Proceedings free from unreasonable delay. 9) Be treated fairly and with dignity by all criminal justice agencies involved in the case. 10)Under certain conditions, to be notified of the accused being on an electronic release and monitoring program. 11)Be notified of an arrest warrant being issued for the accused. 12)Be notified of the accused being prohibited from contacting the victim. Source: Georgia Crime Victims' Bill of Rights Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login