retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home Education and Training Education and Training The Title IX Office offers training and professional development opportunities for all UT students, staff and faculty. All workshops are currently being provided virtually to comply with current social distancing guidelines. Our workshops are tailored to the needs of each group and offer an engaging space to learn about policies, process, and prevention. You can request a workshop at anytime. Feel free to browse our training menu below to learn more about what we can offer to you and your team! Prevention & Education Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Workshop Menu Title IX Basics Title IX Basics has been revised to incorporate new content! This course is a comprehensive overview of policies that include Title IX, Texas Education Code 51.252 (also known as SB 212), and UT Austin's Prohibition of Sexual Assault, Interpersonal Violence, Stalking, Sexual Harassment, and Sex Discrimination (HOP 3-3031) policy. We will discuss how these policies intersect, mandatory reporting duties for employees, intervention and support strategies, and resources and support available for Title IX related incidents. We will utilize scenario-based learning to apply workshop content to real world situations. This workshop can be tailored to fit the needs of a variety of audiences including students, employees, and student employees upon request. Are We Okay? Tools and Tips for Communicating our Boundaries This is an interactive workshop focused solely on setting and communicating boundaries and expectations. We will also discuss how to notice other people's boundaries, barriers to communicating and how to respond to cues, feedback and conflicts. Available for students, faculty, and staff. The Supportive Measures Workshop This is a new workshop created out of the need to provide support to employees who are supporting students who have experienced a Title IX matter and/or are involved in a Title IX obligation. This educational workshop will take a deeper dive into the nature and impact of commonly misunderstood acts of prohibited conduct including sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. We will also discuss employees' legal obligations to provide support and accommodations to students as well as provide best practices on how to navigate disclosure conversations with empathy and understanding. Title IX and Retaliation This informative workshop takes a deep dive into Title IX policies around retaliation and provides guidance on how to address alleged acts of retaliation in the workplace or academic setting. Other University Workshops Gender & Sexuality Center Educational Programs BeVocal Bystander Intervention Faculty Innovation Center: Inclusive Teaching and Learning Leadership & Ethics Institute Workshops Healthyhorns Peer Education Workshops Voices Against Violence Workshops Office for Inclusion and Equity Trainings Title IX Workshops Request a workshop, or sign up for our open workshops on UT Learn. We can always tailor a presentation based on the needs or interests of your group. Request a Workshop TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022