Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Promoting Equity at Cornell Education and Prevention Navigation Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement (Notice of Non-Discrimination) Resources for Support Confidential Resources SHARE New York City-Based Resources Emergency Medical Assistance Non-Cornell Assistance Government Organizations Procedural Advisors Legal Advice Law Enforcement Order of Protection Supportive Measures Immigration/Visa Resources EEO Posters Reporting Report to Cornell Report to the Police Report Anonymously Student Bill of Rights & Your Rights Statement Amnesty Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Preservation of Evidence Process Privacy Under Policy 6.4 Bias Reporting Policy 6.3 FAQs for Policy 6.3 Policy 6.4 Current Policy 6.4 Procedures Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 3/14/2022) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 9/1/2021) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 8/14/2020) Forms for Parties in a Complaint Against a Student or Employee Education and Prevention Get Involved Statistics 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2014-2016 About Us HomeEducation and Prevention Education and Prevention As part of its commitment to diversity and inclusion, Cornell makes a concerted effort to ensure that our community can identify potential acts of sexual and related misconduct and knows who to contact and consult with if they learn about or experience sexual or related misconduct. Our aim is to make sure campus remains a safe and respectful academic and workplace environment focused on education. The staff of the Office of Institutional Equity and the Title IX, together with our community partners, are available to provide in-person trainings to students, staff or faculty. If your Department/Unit or Student Group is interested, please complete this brief training request form. Cornell has long provided an online training for all staff and faculty offered at onboarding and available at any time addressing responsibility at Cornell. Please see below for more about this online program. Educational Resources If you are part of a club, organization, or Cornell community that could benefit from a presentation or workshop, consider the following: Cornell Health’s Skorton Center for Health Initiatives provides education and training about sexual violence and related issues for students, staff, and faculty. Our strategic framework for addressing sexual violence (pdf) includes public health strategies that address the climate, social and cultural factors, policies, and educational strategies. Contact the Program Director for Sexual Violence Prevention for more information. Intervene is a 20-minute online video that includes brief scenarios demonstrating ways in which student bystanders can successfully intervene in problematic situations. Seven different situations are addressed, including sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner violence (emotional abuse), hazing, alcohol emergency, emotional distress, and bias. An in-person 60-minute workshop provides an opportunity for students to view the video with others and engage in a facilitated conversation to reflect upon the attitudes and behaviors that influence the process of intervening as an individual or with assistance. For information contact Laura Santacrose, Assistant Director of Cornell Health’s Skorton Center for Health Initiatives. Cornell Police Crime Prevention Unit and public safety outreach programs and services are available to the entire Cornell community. The Advocacy Center of Tompkins County, in addition to providing direct service, has been a long-standing leader in raising awareness, promoting individual and community safety, and providing outreach programs related to sexual and relationship violence. Training Materials as Required by 2020 Title IX Regulations The Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX maintains a Canvas course that includes sexual harassment and other sexual misconduct training materials presented to all Cornell University Title IX personnel (Title IX Coordinators, investigators, decision-makers, and people who facilitate an informal resolution process) under the 2020 Title IX regulations published by the U.S. Department of Education. Click here to access the Canvas course of training materials. HR 300 – Responsibility@Cornell HR 300 – Responsibility@Cornell is a combination of content from HR 200 “Respect@Cornell” and HR 202 “Maintaining a Harassment Free Workplace.” The new course meets federal and state employee training requirements; and it is required of all Cornell faculty, staff and student employees, annually. This program, with an introduction from Cornell University President Martha Pollack, provides information on Cornell employee rights, responsibilities and resources with respect to sexual and related misconduct and sexual harassment. It addresses how to respond should employees learn a member of our community has experienced any type of sexual or related misconduct and also lets employees know how to file a complaint. Additionally, this course includes information about Cornell University Policy 6.3 (“Consensual Relationships”). Policy 6.3 prohibits romantic or sexual relationships between faculty members or others in positions of authority over students and postgraduates whenever those relationships have the potential to interfere with an individual’s right or ability to pursue academic, training, research or professional interests. This program specifies consensual relationships that are prohibited and describes consensual relationships that must be disclosed by those involved in such a relationship. It also identifies how to report a consensual relationship of others who are not involved. Contact Us Cornell University Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Day Hall, Suite 500 (Fifth Floor) 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Report an Incident © 2014 Cornell University Facebook Twitter YouTube Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search