Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Promoting Equity at Cornell Reporting Navigation Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement (Notice of Non-Discrimination) Resources for Support Confidential Resources SHARE New York City-Based Resources Emergency Medical Assistance Non-Cornell Assistance Government Organizations Procedural Advisors Legal Advice Law Enforcement Order of Protection Supportive Measures Immigration/Visa Resources EEO Posters Reporting Report to Cornell Report to the Police Report Anonymously Student Bill of Rights & Your Rights Statement Amnesty Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Preservation of Evidence Process Privacy Under Policy 6.4 Bias Reporting Policy 6.3 FAQs for Policy 6.3 Policy 6.4 Current Policy 6.4 Procedures Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 3/14/2022) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 9/1/2021) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 8/14/2020) Forms for Parties in a Complaint Against a Student or Employee Education and Prevention Get Involved Statistics 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2014-2016 About Us HomeReportingPolicy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Report an Incident What is the difference between the former Duty to Consult and the new Designated Reporter approach in Policy 6.4? With the exception of Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and supervisors and managers with a duty to respond per this policy, other faculty and staff are no longer subject to a reporting obligation under this policy. However, they may have reporting obligations under other policies or state or federal law. Who are Designated Reporters? The university has identified certain offices and employee positions as Designated Reporters. See the List of Cornell Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters. The Designated Mandatory Reporters at Weill Cornell Medicine can be found at page 13 in their Policy 206. What are the Designated Reporter obligations under Policy 6.4? When Designated Reporters become aware of an alleged incident of sexual harassment (which includes sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking) or other misconduct under this policy, that involves a student as either the complainant or respondent, they are always obligated to report information they have to the Title IX coordinator and to provide their contact information when making the report. These reporting obligations are in addition to other university reporting obligations, such as in University Policy 8.8, Minors at Cornell University.Designated Reporters should be prepared to report the name, date, time, location, and description of the incident (if known). They otherwise will maintain an individual’s privacy to the greatest extent possible. Designated Reporters also are required to direct students who disclose sexual harassment or sexual misconduct or any other form of prohibited discrimination or harassment to resources that can help. Other than sharing such information with the Title IX Coordinator, an individual’s privacy must be maintained to the greatest extent possible. Who has access to the report? The Title IX Coordinator and a small group of professionals with a “need to know” who are trained to respond with sensitivity and in accordance with university policy. The report is considered private and maintained in accordance with university record keeping requirements. What happens after a report is made? When the Title IX Coordinator receives a report of prohibited sexual or related misconduct, they will contact the complainant, if known, or another individual reporting the prohibited conduct to offer Supportive Measures. The individual will also be advised of the option to pursue a formal complaint, if such an option is available, and any other available reporting options and resources. Who else has reporting obligations under Policy 6.4? All Cornell supervisors and managers understand that sexual harassment is considered a form of employee misconduct. Cornell will enforce sanctions against individuals engaging in sexual harassment and against supervisory and managerial personnel who knowingly allow such behavior to continue. Accordingly, supervisory and managerial personnel must take all reasonable actions to report and respond immediately to any reports or observations of sexual harassment that may impact an employee’s working environment. Reports of such conduct should be to the Title IX coordinator. Can other individuals who do not have reporting obligations under Policy 6.4 make a report? Although they are not subject to a reporting obligation under this policy, all faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to report incidents to the university and to consult the Title IX coordinator regarding conduct prohibited by this policy. The university encourages all members of the Cornell community who believe that they have experienced misconduct under this policy or become aware of alleged misconduct to report the incident immediately to the university through the appropriate reporting option listed in the tables in Procedures in this document. In addition to the online reporting form above, what are the other ways to report an incident? By contacting the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX at titleix@cornell.edu or 607.255.2242. Our mailing/in person address is 500 Day Hall, Ithaca, NY 14850. However, we strongly encourage the use of the online reporting form. If you are considering coming to the office in-person, we strongly encourage you to make an appointment in advance so we can be sure that someone is available to assist you. Is it possible to speak with someone before filing a report? Yes, we are available Monday through Friday during business hours. Please contact us at titleix@cornell.edu or 607.255.2242. What information should the reporting individual provide to the impacted individual? Before the impacted individual shares the incident they should be made aware of the reporting obligation and provided with the Sexual Harassment and Assault – Response and Education (“SHARE”) website. Additionally, the following information should be provided: “All Cornell offices and employees who cannot guarantee confidentiality will maintain your privacy to the greatest extent possible. The information you provide to a nonconfidential resource will be relayed only as necessary for the Title IX Coordinator to investigate and/or seek a resolution.” “You have the right to make a report to Cornell University Police, local law enforcement, and/or state police or choose not to report; to report the incident to Cornell; to be protected by Cornell from retaliation for reporting an incident; and to receive assistance and resources from Cornell.” Contact Us Cornell University Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Day Hall, Suite 500 (Fifth Floor) 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Report an Incident © 2014 Cornell University Facebook Twitter YouTube Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search