Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Promoting Equity at Cornell About Us Navigation Spotlights, News and Announcements Archive of Spotlights, News and Announcements Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement (Notice of Non-Discrimination) Resources for Support Confidential Resources SHARE New York City-Based Resources Emergency Medical Assistance Non-Cornell Assistance Government Organizations Procedural Advisors Legal Advice Law Enforcement Order of Protection Supportive Measures Immigration/Visa Resources EEO Posters Reporting Report to Cornell Report to the Police Report Anonymously Student Bill of Rights & Your Rights Statement Amnesty Policy 6.4 Designated Reporters and Reporting Obligations Preservation of Evidence Process Privacy Under Policy 6.4 Bias Reporting Policy 6.3 FAQs for Policy 6.3 Policy 6.4 Current Policy 6.4 Procedures Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 3/14/2022) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 9/1/2021) Policy 6.4 Procedures (prior to 8/14/2020) Forms for Parties in a Complaint Against a Student or Employee Education and Prevention Get Involved Statistics 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2014-2016 About Us HomeAbout Us About Us The Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX (OIETIX) promotes and ensures equal opportunity and access to enable all members of the Cornell community to succeed and thrive. OIETIX addresses bias incidents, sexual and related misconduct, discrimination, and protected-status harassment through data collection and analysis, incident response and resolution, and training and education. We are guided by five core values: community, accountability, empathy, integrity, and the creation of a positive and safe environment. Through Cornell University Policy 6.4, “Prohibited Bias, Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual and Related Misconduct,” and the applicable procedures, the University provides means to address bias, discrimination, harassment, and sexual and related misconduct, including sexual harassment and sex/gender-based harassment, sexual assault, dating and domestic violence, stalking, and sexual exploitation. In addition, through Cornell University Policy 6.3, “Consensual Relationships,” OIETIX strives to protect the integrity of students’ and postgraduates’ university experience, with the freedom to pursue academic, training, research, and professional interests in an environment without preferential or unfair treatment, discrimination, harassment, bias, or coercion. Associate Vice President for the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Laura Rugless (she/her) lwr25@cornell.edu The Associate Vice President for the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX is responsible for providing strategic vision and oversight to prevent incidents of discrimination through education and training, leading response efforts across Cornell’s campuses in the event of an incident, and ensuring compliance with applicable civil rights policy and legal requirements. Laura joined Cornell in 2020, having previously served in similar roles at public universities in Virginia. She is a Virginia-licensed attorney and Army veteran, who earned her undergraduate and law degrees from the College of William and Mary/Marshall-Wythe School of Law. Title IX Coordinator Lauren Branchini (she/her) lb659@cornell.edu Lauren joined Cornell in 2017 as a Title IX Investigator. During her time at Cornell she has also served as Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Investigations and Assistant Director of Institutional Equity. In May 2021, she became the University Title IX Coordinator, with oversight of the University’s response to reports of Sexual Harassment and misconduct involving students, faculty, and staff. Prior to her time at Cornell, Lauren served as an Assistant District Attorney in the Special Victims Bureau of the Kings County District Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn, New York, where she prosecuted misdemeanor and felony sex crimes and crimes against children. She has a Bachelors and J.D. from Emory University. Prior to becoming an attorney, Lauren worked in marketing, public relations, and legal compliance at media companies including CNN, Fox, and HarperCollins Publishers. Equity and Title IX Investigator Vanessa Bentley (she/her) vnb9@cornell.edu Vanessa Bentley is responsible for responding to and investigating allegations of sexual and related misconduct for students, staff, and faculty under Policy 6.4. In her role as an investigator, Vanessa is committed to ensuring a fair and equitable process for all parties involved in any part of the complaint process. Prior to joining the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX in 2019, Vanessa proudly served the Cornell community as a Patrol Officer with the Cornell University Police Department for six years. Vanessa received both her bachelor’s and master’s degrees in Sociology and Criminal Justice, respectively, from the University at Albany. Equity and Title IX Investigator Omar Stoute (he/his) os225@cornell.edu Omar joined the Cornell OIETIX team in 2022. Prior to this, he served as Ithaca College’s Title IX Deputy Coordinator for two years where he conducted investigations and led the college’s sexual violence prevention efforts. Having also received his undergraduate degree from Ithaca College, Omar is very familiar with the local community. Equity Case Manager Nina Drake (she/her/hers) nmd63@cornell.edu Nina Drake is the Institutional Equity Case Manager. She is responsible for providing case management for employee-related bias incidents, formal complaints under the Policy 6.4 non-Title IX employee procedures, and Policy 6.3 disclosures and complaints. Nina has a bachelor’s degree in Social Work from SUNY Brockport. Nina earned both a master’s in social work and a master’s in Public Administration from Binghamton University in 2021. Affirmative Action Program Consultant Darren Jackson (he/him/his) dj39@cornell.edu Operations Manager Jessica Reynolds (she/her) jhr252@cornell.edu Jessica Reynolds joined the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX in 2016. She is responsible for office operations, data collection and analysis, as well as project management in support of the office’s training and education initiatives. Institutional Equity and Title IX Case Manager Melanie Farnham (she/her) mmm444@cornell.edu Melanie Farnham is the Title IX Case Manager. She is responsible for providing case management for matters involving sexual and related misconduct for students, staff, and faculty. Prior to joining the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX in 2019, Melanie worked at the Office of Alumni Affairs and Development in the College of Engineering. Weill Cornell Medical College For Weill Cornell Medical College Title IX Coordinators, please visit the Weill Cornell Sexual Misconduct website. Contact Us Cornell University Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Day Hall, Suite 500 (Fifth Floor) 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Report an Incident © 2014 Cornell University Facebook Twitter YouTube Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search