retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home About Title IX About Title IX About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in any federally funded education program or activity1. Title IX protects all members of our campus community who experience sex discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, interpersonal violence (including dating and domestic violence), stalking, or discrimination on the basis of pregnancy. These protections apply to students, faculty, staff, contractors, applicants and campus visitors. We are committed to creating and fostering a campus environment free from all forms of sex discrimination. Protection from Prohibited Conduct Prohibited conduct is a wide range of behavior including sexual harassment, sexual assault, interpersonal violence (including dating and domestic violence), and stalking. Additionally, the university's revised HOP 3-3031: Prohibition of Sexual Assault, Interpersonal Violence, Stalking, Sexual Harassment, and Sex Discrimination prohibits sex discrimination, sexual exploitation, unprofessional or inappropriate conduct of a sexual nature, retaliation, false information and false complaints, and interference with a grievance process under this policy. The Title IX Office works to prevent prohibited conduct from occurring, and responds seriously and appropriately to all reports of prohibited conduct. Protection from Gender-based Harassment Title IX also prohibits gender-based harassment, which the Office for Civil Rights defines as "unwelcome conduct based on a student’s sex, harassing conduct based on a student’s failure to conform to sex stereotypes2." It includes "slurs, taunts, stereotypes, or name-calling, as well as gender-motivated physical threats, attacks, or other hateful conduct3." University policy protects against discrimination on the basis of sex, and our policies include protections for gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation. If you feel you are being discriminated against based on your sex or gender, you have the right to report to the Title IX Office. Protection for Pregnant and Parenting Status Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, including on the basis of pregnancy and parenting status. The university is required to provide reasonable accommodations due to pregnancy and parenting needs, including excused absences, changes in the work environment, or alternative participation options4. If you feel that reasonable accommodations are not being provided, please contact the Title IX Office. 1 “Title IX and Sex Discrimination.” US Department of Education (ED). www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/tix_dis.html. 2 “Sex-Based Harassment.” US Department of Education (ED). www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/frontpage/pro-students/issues/sex-issue01.html. 3 “What Is Sex-Based Harassment?” Sex Discrimination, US Department of Education (ED). www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/frontpage/faq/sex.html#sexhar1. 4 “Know Your Rights: Pregnant or Parenting? Title IX Protects You From Discrimination At School.” US Department of Education (ED). www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/dcl-know-rights-201306-title-ix.html. Contact Us Location: University Administration Building (UTA) 2.507 1616 Guadalupe Street Suite 2.507 Austin, Texas 78701 Email: titleix@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-0419 TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022