Skip to content Toggle navigation Title IX Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Home What is Title IX? The Law Sexual Violence and Harassment Sex/Gender Discrimination Athletics Myths about Title IX First Amendment & Academic Freedom Policies Sexual Misconduct Policy USG Policy to Prohibit Discrimination & Harassment (HRAP) Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy Retaliation Student Code of Conduct Confidentiality Resources Resources Generally Victims/Complainants: What You Need to Know Resources for Respondents (Accused) Law Enforcement Hearing Panelists Support/Assistance Interim Measures Sexual Misconduct Q & A Training Materials VOICE Title IX & STEM Promising Practices for STEM A Guide for Conducting Title IX Self-Evaluations in STEM Programs Nat'l Science Foundation - Sexual Harassment Contact Us SUBMIT A COMPLAINT/REPORT Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home What is Title IX? Increasing Equity and Participation in Athletics Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits sex discrimination in educational programs that receive federal funds. While the law applies to all aspects of educational opportunities, it probably is best known for its application to sports. Title IX requires that educational institutions (1) provide male and female students with equal opportunities to play sports, (2) give male and female athletes their fair shares of athletic scholarship dollars, and (3) provide equal benefits and services (such as facilities, coaching, and publicity) to male and female athletes overall. Title IX has helped girls and women participate in interscholastic and intercollegiate athletics in far greater numbers than they had in the past. When Title IX became law, dramatic change was needed to level the playing fields of this nation's schools and to change the perception of the place of girls and women on them. Just one year before the enactment of Title IX, fewer than 300,000 high school girls played interscholastic sports. Today, that number is 2.4 million. Georgia Tech fully supports equality of opportunity for its male and female athletes, whether as part if its (NCAA) Division I intercollegiate athletics program or through its more than 30 student-run sports clubs and 20 intramural teams. The Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Equity in Athletics is Joeleen Akin, Senior Associate Director of Athletics. She can be reached at jakin@athletics.gatech.edu or (404) 894-4462. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login