retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content University Compliance Services MENU Exit to Google Search Search File a Report About What is Title IX? Meet our Team Terms and Concepts Data Reports Senate Bill 212 FAQs Process & Policies University Policies Process Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Education & Prevention Training Opportunities Prevention Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Breadcrumb Home Reporting Resources (non-confidential) Reporting Resources (non-confidential) Support & Resources Seeking Support and Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Reporting Resources Get Help Helpful Handouts Non-Confidential Resources Title IX Office The Title IX Office is committed to supporting the University’s mission to create and maintain an educational and work environment free from all forms of sexual assault, interpersonal violence (including domestic and dating violence), stalking, and sexual harassment (including harassment on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or pregnancy status), where students, faculty, and staff can learn, work and thrive. The Title IX Office seeks to provide leadership pertaining to the Title IX regulations, as well as develop and implement best practices for prevention, training, resources and support services at The University of Texas at Austin. University Compliance Services - Department of Investigation and Adjudication Serves as a neutral investigator of allegations of sexual assault, interpersonal violence (including dating and domestic violence), stalking, sexual harassment, sex discrimination, sexual exploitation, unprofessional or inappropriate conduct of a sexual nature, retaliation, false information and false complaints, interference with grievance processes, failure to report by a non-confidential employee against students, employees, and other affiliates under HOP 3-3031. Investigates other forms of discrimination under the Non-Discrimination Policy (HOP 3-3020). Austin Police Department Supports and assists the community for any off-campus incidents in the Austin area. Call 911 for emergencies. Non-emergencies: 512-974-5037 UT Police Department (UTPD) Assist victims in criminal reports. Pseudonym option is available to victims to shield the victim's identity in a police report. Provides escort services. Offers prevention trainings that include issues related to assault. Teaches free Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) classes to any female UT students, staff, and faculty. Call 911 for emergencies. Non-emergencies: 512-471-4441, dial "9" U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) Responsible for enforcing federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or employee on the basis of a protect class, including discrimination on the basis of sex. 800-669-4000 Office for Civil Rights (OCR) Responsible for enforcing federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination in programs and activities that receive federal financial assistance from the Department of Education, including sex discrimination covered under Title IX. 214-661-9600 Texas Child Protective Services (CPS) Hotline to report abuse and neglect of children (minors) and receive information about available resources. 800-252-5400 Texas Workforce Commission Civil Rights Division Texas state agency responsible for enforcing state level employee rights and labor laws. TwitterFind us on Twitter FacebookFind us on Facebook UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022