About TLAC Administration Climate & Diversity Contact Us Employment Endowed Chairs TLAC’s Vision & History Academics Bachelors Masters Doctoral Admissions Bachelor’s Admissions Doctoral Admissions Master’s Admissions Research & Outreach Journal Editorship Student Services Scholarships and Financial Assistance Frequently Asked Questions Lohman Learning Community Student Organizations Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Undergraduate Peer Mentors Home Menu Education & Human Development Teaching, Learning & Culture How to Apply MENUMENU Admissions Bachelor’s Admissions Master’s Admissions Doctoral Admissions Academics Bachelor's in Education: With a certification in the following areas: EC-6 Core Subjects/ Generalist Middle Grades 4-8 Math/Science Middle Grades 4-8 Language Arts/Social Studies Master's in Curriculum and Instruction: Emphasis in the following areas: Generalist (Online) Reading and Literacy (Online or On-Campus) Urban Education (Online) Science, Technology, Engineering & Math (Online) Mathematics Education Science Education Multicultural Education Graduate Certification Program Doctorate in Curriculum and Instruction: Emphasis in the following areas: Curriculum & Instruction (Online Ed.D.) Mathematics Education Reading and Literacy Science Education Multicultural Education Technology and Teacher Education Student Services Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Field Experiences Office Scholarships & Financial Aid Lohman Learning Community Student Organizations Undergraduate Peer Mentors Undergraduate Peer Mentors in Technology Frequently Asked Questions aggieTERM Education Career Fair Global Education Opportunities Research & Outreach Aggie Stem Research & Outreach Aggie STEM Center for Urban School Partnerships (CUSP) Education Research Center Clinic for Advanced Literacy Studies Research Research Research conducted in teacher preparation and educational achievement particularly in culture and curriculum Journal Editorship Certificates Reading Specialist Teacher Certification Graduate Certification Program STEM Certificate Education and Social Sciences Advanced Research Methods Certificate About TLAC About TLAC TLAC’s Vision & History Climate & Diversity Administration Endowed Chairs Employment Contact Us THE DEPARTMENT OF TEACHING, LEARNING & CULTURE Teaching, Learning and Culture (TLAC) encompasses students, faculty and staff whose efforts and interests center on the many different aspects of academics, teaching and classroom education. TLAC’s mission is to create experiences that advance teaching, research and service through the application of knowledge in the preparation and development of quality educators; placing high value on collaboration, diversity, critical thinking, creativity, democratic governance and global leadership. Undergraduate Programs in Education Graduate Programs in Curriculum & Instruction Online Graduate Programs in Curriculum & Instruction How to Apply Having two highly-ranked graduate programs within one department serves as an index of the world-class academic programs and faculty who are committed to a culture of excellence in research and discovery, and the scholarship of teaching. -Dr. Michael de Miranda, Department Head Read more about TLAC rankings Former Student Highlight Merrari Boffil First-generation student Merari Boffill ’18 hopes to become a teacher and share the importance of education. Watch her amazing story! PROGRAMS Master’s → Doctoral → Bachelor’s → Online → Certificates → FROM OUR FORMER STUDENTS “One of the things that set this program apart is that it is located within the Teaching, Learning & Culture Department at Texas A&M. There’s more to teaching than just delivering a curriculum or instructional strategy; we have to consider the influence that culture has one what we do.” Dr. Byron William Online Ed.D in Curriculum & Instruction Online Ed.D. TLAC PROGRAMS UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES TLAC offers a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Education, with one of three focuses. Undergraduate Studies Graduate Programs The Culture and Curriculum program offers students the opportunity to learn and grow in many areas. Graduate Programs GLOBAL ONLINE EDUCATION Providing greater opportunities and flexibility for students, TLAC offers online degree programs, in addition to many individual Web-based classes. Online Education Certificates TLAC offers several types of certificates for students as well as Texas Teacher Certifications Certificates Teaching, Learning & Culture Academic Programs aggieTEACH Teaching, Learning & Culture THE DEPARTMENT OF TEACHING, LEARNING & CULTURE Teaching, Learning and Culture (TLAC) encompasses students, faculty and staff whose efforts and interests center on the many different aspects of academics, teaching and classroom education. TLAC’s mission is to create experiences that advance teaching, research and service through the application of knowledge in the preparation and development of quality educators; placing high value on collaboration, diversity, critical thinking, creativity, democratic governance and global leadership. Undergraduate Programs in Education Graduate Programs in Curriculum & Instruction Online Graduate Programs in Curriculum & Instruction How to Apply Having two highly-ranked graduate programs within one department serves as an index of the world-class academic programs and faculty who are committed to a culture of excellence in research and discovery, and the scholarship of teaching. -Dr. Michael de Miranda, Department Head Read more about TLAC rankings Former Student Highlight Merrari Boffil First-generation student Merari Boffill ’18 hopes to become a teacher and share the importance of education. Watch her amazing story! PROGRAMS Master’s → Doctoral → Bachelor’s → Online → Certificates → FROM OUR FORMER STUDENTS “One of the things that set this program apart is that it is located within the Teaching, Learning & Culture Department at Texas A&M. There’s more to teaching than just delivering a curriculum or instructional strategy; we have to consider the influence that culture has one what we do.” Dr. Byron William Online Ed.D in Curriculum & Instruction Online Ed.D. TLAC PROGRAMS UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES TLAC offers a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Education, with one of three focuses. Undergraduate Studies Graduate Programs The Culture and Curriculum program offers students the opportunity to learn and grow in many areas. Graduate Programs GLOBAL ONLINE EDUCATION Providing greater opportunities and flexibility for students, TLAC offers online degree programs, in addition to many individual Web-based classes. Online Education Certificates TLAC offers several types of certificates for students as well as Texas Teacher Certifications Certificates Contact TLAC 308 Harrington Tower College Station, TX 77843 Call: (979) 845-8384 Contact Us CEHD Links College of Education & Human Development Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Educational Psychology Health & Kinesiology Teaching, Learning & Culture Resources Department Faculty Differential Tuition Tuition Calculator Instructional Design Services Quick Links Climate & Diversity Online Degree Programs Bachelor’s Degree Programs Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Programs CEHD Staff Kudos ©2022 The College of Education and Human Development TAMU Accessibility CEHD Web Team Site Policies Sitemap