Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home About Overview Mission History Leadership Faculty Unique Capabilities Diseases We Investigate Scientific Discoveries Animal Care Nonhuman Primate Species Behavioral Management Oversight FAQ Divisions Comparative Pathology Immunology Microbiology Veterinary Medicine Research Core Services Veterinary Medicine Services Research Programs Pilot Research Program Collaborative Research Quality Program Education and Training Graduate Program Postdoctoral Training Veterinary Preceptorship Veterinary Residency Mentoring Visiting Scientist Program Summer Research Program Summer Veterinary Program Outreach About Animal Research Educational Resources Community Advisory Board Contact Main Contacts Employment Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Chad J. Roy, PhD Chad J. Roy, PhD Professor of Microbiology and Immunology Director of Infectious Disease Aerobiology and Biodefense Research Programs croy@tulane.edu 18703 Three Rivers Road Covington, Louisiana 70433 985.871.6417 School of Medicine Education MSPH, Environmental Health Sciences, Tulane University; PhD, Preventive Medicine, University of Iowa College of Medicine Biography Research Programs Infectious Disease Aerobiology and the Communicability of Airborne Disease Aerosol Ecology & Transmission of Infectious Diseases Animal Models of Aerosol Infection Vaccine and Therapeutics Evaluation using Advanced Aerosol Infection Models Learn More Research Interests Dr. Roy presently is an Professor of Microbiology and Immunology and a core scientist at the Tulane National Primate Research Center, Division of Microbiology. His primary faculty appointment is within the Tulane University School of Medicine Department of Microbiology and Immunology. He also serves as the Director of the Infectious Disease Aerobiology scientific core located within the Division of Microbiology at the TNPRC. Dr. Roy is a career aerobiologist focused on respiratory health and the aerobiology of airborne infectious diseases; specifically on gaining a better understanding of aerosol infection in the context of the development and application of preclinical disease models; the majority of efforts are directed in the use of the nonhuman primate for this purpose. The practical application of this research has been and continues to be enabling advanced pathogenesis studies as well as medical product evaluation. His laboratory works with a diverse array of infectious and highly toxic agents considered biological threat agents rather than a singular focus on a particular class or agent. Essentially all of the research in the Roy laboratory is performed within a high containment (BSL-3) environment. The inclusion of such a wide number of biological threat agents in the research program has been the result of extensive, highly collaborative studies between a number of extramural laboratories and the Roy laboratory. His current research portfolio includes evaluation studies of antivirals in aerosol-induced poxviral infections, and evaluation of optimized monoclonal antibodies as therapeutic agents for toxin (SEB and ricin) exposure. He is also involved in investigation of the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of virally-vectored vaccines against aerosol-initiated alphaviral disease. There are also significant efforts ongoing in his laboratory to develop disease models for biothreat agents such as Burkholderia pseudomallei in the nonhuman primate. Publications View Dr. Roy's publications in PubMed Editorial Responsibilities Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology Associate Editor Journal of Medical Primatology Member, Editorial Board Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane National Primate Research Center 18703 Three Rivers Road Covington, LA 70433 (985) 892-2040 tnprc@tulane.edu Facebook Twitter News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University