Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech Researchers Looking for Sustainable Solutions to Water Shortages Allen Ramsey May 16, 2022 Professors from Davis College are working to aid farmers in semi-arid regions. Texas Tech University researchers are working to help farmers in semi-arid regions deal with a dwindling water supply. Three professors in the Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources recently received a $294,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) to study the integration a resilient cropping system and precision conservation for sustainable agriculture in a semi-arid region. “The overall challenge in this region is the lack of water, and now the water from the Ogallala Aquifer is actually running out,” said principal investigator Wenxuan Guo, an assistant professor of crop ecophysiology and precision agriculture in the Department of Plant and Soil Science. Guo and his team will use predictive modeling techniques to gain a better understanding of which crops will work best in rotation depending on the amount of water available in the future. “We want to know, with limited rainfall, if the agricultural production in this region is resilient or not,” Guo said. “We'll look at different climate change scenarios - a modest one, an extreme one and something in between - and we'll use this model to predict what we need to do to adapt to that new environment.” Guo's focus is on producing models for sustainable cropping systems, but he is joined on the project by Chenggang Wang, an associate professor in the Department of Agricultural and Applied Economics who will help determine which of the cropping systems show the most promise economically. “The economic analysis in this project will be focused on evaluating the economic performance of alternative cropping systems selected by scientists on our team,” Wang said. “This involves not only measuring profitability but also quantifying risk. “Farming communities in the Southern High Plains of Texas are dealing primarily with two types of risk: the weather risk and the risk of dwindling water supply. A cropping system may be best suited for the soil condition in a region, but it has to be able to generate stable income for farmers in order to be valuable.” The project also is joined by plant and soil science department chair Glenn Ritchie, who focuses his research on economical water management. “Maximizing the value of our limited water resources is critical to successful agriculture in the Southern High Plains,” Ritchie said. “This research is timely and important to the continued success of agriculture in semi-arid regions around the world.” Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Research, Stories, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources is made up of six departments: Agriculture and Applied Economics Agricultural Education and Communications Animal and Food Science Landscape Architecture Plant and Soil Science Natural Resources Management Twitter Facebook YouTube Department of Plant & Soil Science The mission of the Department of Plant & Soil Science is to improve plants for human use, increase knowledge about our environment, and enhance sustainable practices in plant production and value-added processing through education, research, and outreach. The department is a comprehensive academic department conducting research and offering coursework and academic programs in all areas of the plant and soil sciences. Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 17, 2022 11:25 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index