Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Renowned Playwright Rebecca Gilman Joins School of Theatre & Dance Amanda Castro-Crist August 20, 2019 A prolific playwright and educator, Gilman was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for “Glory of Living.” The Texas Tech University School of Theatre & Dance, part of the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts (TCVPA), has hired renowned playwright and educator Rebecca Gilman to lead the school's Master of Fine Arts (MFA) and doctoral degree programs in playwriting. She will begin in the role this fall. Gilman previously served as a faculty member at Northwestern University's competitive playwriting program, where she was awarded the Charles Deering McCormick Professor of Teaching Excellence by the university in 2014. In 2001, she was named a Pulitzer-Prize finalist for her play "The Glory of Living." "Hiring a playwright such as Ms. Gilman is a program director's dream," said Mark Charney, director of the School of Theatre & Dance. "We have a long-standing MFA program in playwriting, one that encourages full productions and evenings of one-act plays annually, so for decades, we've committed to play development. Our doctoral program in interdisciplinary studies also offers a playwriting focus, one that asks students to write two plays. We produce one, then find the research that links the two. Now, with the WildWind Performance Lab, each June we develop six to eight plays, some professional, some from the Kennedy Center and others from playwrights at Texas Tech. "We need a strong playwright to further education and to better our understanding of how playwriting can affect and transform the environment. Ms. Gilman will transform our playwriting program." Gilman is one of the most significant playwrights in the country. From "Spinning into Butter," which was adapted into a 2007 feature-length film starring Sarah Jessica Parker, to "Boy Gets Girl," Gilman's writing not only reflects contemporary issues, but also addresses uncomfortable realities. In addition to serving as a member of the Council of the Dramatists Guild of America and a board member of the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois, Gilman is an artistic associate at the Goodman Theatre, a professional theater company in Chicago. She completed her bachelor's degree at Birmingham-Southern College and her master's degree at the University of Virginia, both in English, followed by her doctoral degree in playwriting at the University of Iowa. Gilman is the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, and her list of accolades includes The Harold and Mimi Steinberg American Theatre Critics Association New Play Award, The Harper Lee Award, The Scott McPherson Award, The Prince Prize for Commissioning New Work, The Roger L. Stevens Award from the Kennedy Center Fund for New American Plays, The Evening Standard Award for Most Promising Playwright, The George Devine Award, The Theatre Masters Visionary Award, The Great Plains Playwright Award and an Illinois Arts Council playwriting fellowship. "This is the program of every playwright's dreams," Gilman said of her appointment at Texas Tech. "The school has a brand new, state-of-the-art facility that includes lab and studio spaces. The students here are so well supported, both financially and artistically, that they are able to focus solely on developing their artistic visions and voices during their time here. And the voices at Texas Tech are amazing – diverse, strong and dedicated to making theater that speaks to the world around us." tags: Academics, College of Visual and Performing Arts, Faculty, Graduate School, Stories, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts at Texas Tech offers a diverse array of programs and courses in art, music, theatre and dance. The college seeks to prepare students who will be leaders in the profession by employing the highest standards in performance, teaching, research, and artistic and creative vision. The college includes the: School of Art School of Music School of Theatre and Dance Fine Arts Doctoral Program Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube School of Theatre & Dance Texas Tech School of Theatre & Dance is part of the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts. It is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre, and fosters the highest standards of scholarship and creative activity, providing opportunities for students and faculty to work actively in both areas. It champions training and education in a breadth of specialized programs, encourages students to cross boundaries between them, and prepares them for careers in both practice and pedagogy. By integrating theory, artistry, performance and scholarship, and striving to promote an inclusive and equitable environment, the school serves as a vital force in the cultural and intellectual life of our communities. The university is one of two in Texas to offer all traditional degrees in theatre, and one of only three in the southwest to offer a Ph.D. in fine arts. Students in the School of Theatre & Dance pursue a core curriculum that includes training in the areas of design, acting, directing, dance, stage management, history and playwriting. Prospective Students Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 12:58 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index