Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law Bulletin - Summer 2020 Table of Contents Features When Voting Is a Risky Choice The November 2020 general election was shaping up to be one of the most highly anticipated, nerve-wracking and deeply contested elections in American history, with most onlookers expecting record-breaking voter turnout. Then a pandemic hit. Continue Reading A Killing in Broad Daylight In the wake of the killing of George Floyd, legal scholars see a moment of reckoning. Continue Reading How Do You Prepare for a Pandemic? David Beck ’91, senior vice president and chief legal counsel at Boston Medical Center, shares what it took to get the safety-net hospital ready for the coronavirus and the most challenging month in its history—and what might come out of this difficult season. Continue Reading Must We Allow Symbols of Racism on Public Land? A legal historian who has focused on the history of U.S. slavery puts the push to remove Confederate statues in context. Continue Reading Distance Learning Up Close Teaching and learning at Harvard Law School in the first months of the pandemic Continue Reading Making History in Environmental Law In his new book “The Rule of Five,” Richard Lazarus goes behind the scenes of the biggest environmental law case in Supreme Court history. Continue Reading Departments Inside HLS: News and Views From Campus Alumni Notes & Newsmakers Writ Large: Faculty Books Letters From the Dean In Memoriam Class Notes Browse Issue → Submit A Class Note Submit A Letter Submit an Obituary Contact Us Bulletin Archives The Urgency of the Moment From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond A Year Unlike Any Other This has been a year unlike any other, a year with so many challenges and hardships here in the United States and around the world. It has also been a year of inspiring efforts by members of the global Harvard Law School community to respond with creativity and determination, finding […] Continue Reading Continue Reading » Featured Stories When Voting Is a Risky Choice The November 2020 general election was shaping up to be one of the most highly anticipated, nerve-wracking and deeply contested elections in American history, with most onlookers expecting record-breaking voter turnout. Then a pandemic hit. How Do You Prepare for a Pandemic? A Killing in Broad Daylight Distance Learning Up Close Must We Allow Symbols of Racism on Public Land? Making History in Environmental Law In a new book, Lazarus goes behind the scenes of the biggest environmental law case in Supreme Court history In his new book “The Rule of Five,” Richard Lazarus goes behind the scenes of the biggest environmental law case in Supreme Court history. Continue Reading Continue Reading » Dean's Letter John F. Manning '85 A Year Unlike Any Other This has been a year unlike any other, a year with so many challenges and hardships here in the United States and around the world. It has also been a year of inspiring efforts by members of the global Harvard Law School community to respond with creativity and determination, finding solutions and advocating for the most vulnerable and marginalized members of our society. Continue Reading Writ Large Popular Opinion In the ongoing debate over the ways justices interpret the Constitution, Mark Tushnet offers a different perspective: Let the people decide Tushnet advocates for a new constitutional order that would move away from “judicial supremacy" and instead focus on empowering ordinary people to shape Americans’ understanding of the meaning of the Constitution. Continue Reading For the Sake of Argument Joseph Singer writes on how to use persuasion to break through a divide Singer seeks to help lawyers and the general public make reasoned arguments, promote civil discourse, and consider alternative perspectives. Continue Reading Getting the Law of Wrongs Right John Goldberg on reforming how we think about tort law, including in the age of COVID-19 In “Recognizing Wrongs,” Goldberg and his co-author argue that much of the criticism of tort law comes from failing to appreciate its character and purposes. Continue Reading Faculty Books in Brief: Summer 2020 From human rights in a time of populism to a comparative look at capital punishment to a focus on disability, healthcare and bioethics Continue Reading See All » Enduring Lessons Four Harvard Law School faculty who retired this year are celebrated by former students Read the tributes » Retiring Professors Robert Clark, Mary Ann Glendon Laurence Tribe and Mark Tushnet are celebrated by former students. Continue Reading Read the tributes » Alumni Notes and Newsmakers A Justice Reflects on Law and Life In a book featuring speeches and writings over the course of his 30 years in the law, Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch ’91 offers “personal reflections on our Constitution, its separation of powers, and some of the challenges we face in preserving and protecting our republic today.” No Time Like the Present Coming Full Circle Double Take HLS Authors: Selected Alumni Books Summer 2020 Pivot Point A Sense of Place A Case for Compassion Looking Back, Looking Forward Gallery Pomp and Circumstance Separated by a pandemic, the resilient Class of 2020 still found ways to connect On May 28, 2020, Harvard Law students gathered to celebrate their graduation. The gathering did not take place at the foot of Langdell Hall, but rather in living rooms and backyards worldwide, from Cambridge to California, from New Zealand to the Netherlands, at all hours of the day and night. Continue Reading Continue Reading » In Memoriam Lila Fenwick ’56, the first black female graduate of Harvard Law, dies at 87 John ‘Jack’ Cogan Jr. ’52 (1926-2020) See the full list of HLS alumni obituaries » Letters to the Editor David Shapiro, teacher, mentor and friend Michael H. Levin ’69 Washington, D.C. Your remembrance of David Shapiro was excellent on the professional ledger but for me did not convey his full measure on the human side. He carried his learning lightly and was humble, funny, and brave. Continue Reading We need answers as well as questions Don Bergmann ’66 Westport, Connecticut As described in your article, the Social Media and the Law course at Harvard Law School appears to be an initial effort to come to grips with the phenomenon of "surveillance capitalism" and comparable, generally undesirable, progeny. Continue Reading Kudos Steve Susman ’60 Denver I’ve so enjoyed the marvelous Winter 2020 edition of the Harvard Law Bulletin: the content (scholarly articles, not too lengthy; profiles of current students with unusual backgrounds; new undertakings at the School), beautiful artwork and formatting. This edition is “coffee-table quality.” Continue Reading See All » Class Notes are online! Class Notes for the Summer 2021 Bulletin issue are available online through Amicus, our secure HLS community-building platform. Learn how to access Amicus and view Class Notes. Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.