Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Associate Professor of History Selected as 2019 Piper Professor Amanda Bowman May 1, 2019 Aliza Wong is one of only 10 selected in the State of Texas. Texas Tech University's Aliza Wong, an associate professor in the Department of History and the associate dean of the Honors College, was selected as a 2019 Piper Professor by the Minnie Stevens Piper Foundation. She is one of only 10 selected in the State of Texas. The Piper Professor Program began in 1958 to recognize outstanding professors from public and private two- and four-year colleges and universities in Texas. Each university selects one professor for the nomination. This year, it was Wong's name that was recognized. "I am very honored and humbled to be chosen as a Piper Professor," Wong said. "It's been several years since someone from Texas Tech was selected, so I am very fortunate to have been the candidate put forward for consideration and even more privileged to have been chosen as a Piper Professor." Sean Cunningham, an associate professor and chairman of the history department, wrote one of the recommendation letters endorsing Wong for the award. "There is no one more deserving of this recognition than Aliza Wong," Cunningham said. "I've been on faculty at Texas Tech since 2007, and consistently – each year – Aliza Wong is the most active, amiable, engaged, caring and productive educator I know. Students love her, even when she challenges them. She's an asset to Texas Tech, and I'm glad the Piper Program sees it that way, too." Wong said she was fortunate to have people like Cunningham, as well as Michael San Francisco, dean of the Honors College, nominate her. San Francisco echoed Cunningham's sentiments on Wong. "I cannot think of a more deserving scholar for this very prestigious Piper Professor award," San Francisco said. "Dr. Wong is a consummate scholar, administrator and educator. She dedicates her efforts to the academic mission wholeheartedly." In recognition of being named a Piper Professor, Wong will receive a $5,000 honorarium, a gold pin and a certificate commemorating the award. "The monetary award is very generous and will be put to good use in both my research and teaching," Wong said. "The pin and certificate are badges of honor, but I think the real reward of being named a Piper Professor is the honor of standing amongst faculty who I know are really committed to pedagogy and who are really committed to not only the educative side, but also the mentoring, research, sponsoring leadership and nurturing side." Wong also notes that her students have impacted her as much as she has them. "I think it's the students who make the teacher," she said. "I have been very privileged and extremely fortunate to work with diverse, intelligent and incredibly generous students who have taught me how to teach." Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Achievements, Faculty, Research, Stories, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Honors College <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Honors College at Texas Tech is dedicated to providing students with a broad education that prepares them for a lifetime of learning. Honors Sciences and the Humanities (HSH), formerly known as Honors Arts and Letters (HAL), is a major and minor degree program offered by the Honors College. HSH integrates the seemingly disparate sciences and humanities, instilling critical thinking skills and communication literacy through reading and writing-intensive courses while simultaneously preparing students for STEM-based careers and rigorous post-graduate programs like law and medical school. Within the HSH major, students may choose to pursue degree concentrations in Medicine, Global Health & the Humanities; Humanities Driven STEM; Environmental Science & the Humanities, or Politics, Philosophy, Economics & Law. Twitter Facebook Instagram Department of History The Department of History is a vibrant community of scholars who seek to understand the past and teach courses that introduce students to the processes of historical thinking and analysis critical for the development of an informed citizenry. The department offers strong undergraduate and graduate programs taught by a diverse faculty who are well-respected in their individual fields and in the historical community in general. Learn more about the faculty, students, courses, and what makes the history department exemplary. Twitter Facebook Instagram Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 28, 2022 1:40 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index