Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Campus Life Center For Teaching Excellence Celebrates Montague Scholars The Montague-CTE Scholars Award is named in honor of Kenneth Montague ’37. By Sherrie MacWillie, Texas A&M University Center for Teaching Excellence November 12, 2021 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Interim Provost and Executive Vice President Tim Scott Texas A&M University’s Center for Teaching Excellence celebrated two classes of scholars this week at the Bethancourt Ballroom in the Memorial Student Center. The event acknowledged award recipients from 2021-22, alongside the 2020-21 awardees, who were not able to celebrate last year as a result of Covid-19 social distancing policies. The Montague-CTE Scholars Award is named in honor of Kenneth Montague ’37, a distinguished alumnus and outstanding trustee of Texas A&M University Development Foundation, who had a long and storied career in the Texas oil industry. Ken and Judy Montague endowed a gift in 1991 to benefit Aggies who are life-long learners and contributors to their communities. Each year, one tenure-track assistant professor from each college is chosen to receive the Montague-CTE Scholars Award, which includes a $6,500 grant to encourage further development in teaching within their respective fields. This award has now been granted to 289 faculty. CTE officials said they are deeply appreciative for the generosity of Jim and Vicki Montague, who continue the legacy of supporting a community of faculty leaders and innovative educators. Among the distinguished guests, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President Tim Scott, opened the ceremony by providing an address to the crowd of awardees, guests, deans and department heads. “The art of teaching is in its renaissance at Texas A&M,” Scott said. “Across our campus we have faculty, like our Montague-CTE Scholars, working on course redesigns and innovations that are resulting in student learning and performance increases across the board for all demographics, including first-generation students, historically underrepresented groups and Pell-eligible students.” The keynote speaker, Dr. Ashley Saunders, a 2009-10 Montague-CTE Scholar and professor of cardiology at the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, said her award supported the creation of the MurMur Learner. This module, which helps students learn how to hear heart abnormalities in small animals, is currently used not only by Texas A&M, but also by veterinarians in continuing education courses, and other veterinary schools. The vast impact of scholars’ many projects, innovations and classroom activities on learners is extraordinary, CTE officials said. The 2020-2021 scholars are: Janie McClurkin Moore, College of Agriculture & Life Sciences, Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering Alejandro Borges, College of Architecture, Department of Architecture Daniel Bowen, College of Education & Human Development, Department of Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Matt Pharr, College of Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering Kathryn Shamberger, College of Geosciences, Department of Oceanography Defne Över, College of Liberal Arts, Department of Sociology Jon Stauffer, Mays Business School, Department of Information and Operations Management Jonathan Sczepanski, College of Science, Department of Chemistry Sarguru Subash, College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences, Department of Veterinary Pathobiology Cassia Bömer Galvao, Galveston Campus, Department of Maritime Administration 2021-2022 scholars (front l-r): Jon Stauffer, Daniel Bowen, Sarguru Subash, Kathryn Shamberger, and Janie McClurkin Moore. (Back l-r) Vicki Montague, Alejandro Borges, Defne Över, Cassia Bömer Galvao, Matt Pharr, and Jim Montague. The 2021-2022 scholars are: Anjel Helms, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Department of Entomology James Michael Tate, College of Architecture, Department of Architecture Idean Ettekal, College of Education & Human Development, Department of Educational Psychology Theodora Chaspari, College of Engineering, Department of Computer Science and Engineering Christina Belanger, College of Geosciences, Department of Geology and Geophysics Sarah McNamera, College of Liberal Arts, Department of History Bradford Hepfer, Mays Business School, Department of Accounting Quentin Michaudel, College of Science, Department of Chemistry Ashley Ross, Galveston Campus, Department of Marine and Coastal Environmental Science 2020-2021 scholars (front l-r): Quentin Michaudel, James Michael Tate, Christina Belanger and Ashley Ross (back l-r): Vicki Montague (accepted for Sarah McNamara), Theodora Chaspari, Idean Ettekal, and Jim Montague. For more information on the Montague-CTE Scholars program, visit the center’s website at cte.tamu.edu or contact smacwillie@tamu.edu. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Related Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Health & Environment Texas A&M Health Faculty Rank Among Top 2 Percent Of Scholars Worldwide Twenty-six faculty members appear in Stanford University’s “World’s Top 2% Scientists” list. Campus Life 92 Texas A&M Instructors Earn Credentials Through Instructional Excellence Project Texas A&M's Center for Teaching Excellence recognized newly credentialed faculty at a ceremony this month. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Email Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top