Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech Celebrates School of Veterinary Medicine with Official Ribbon Cutting Weston Brooks April 22, 2022 (VIDEO) Governor Greg Abbott was on hand to help celebrate Texas’ first new veterinary school in more than a century. Gov. Greg Abbott The excavation of an enormous foundation in early 2020 marked the beginning of construction on a state-of-the-art home for Texas Tech University's School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo. Today the facilities are complete and occupied by the pioneering students, staff and faculty of the first new veterinary school in Texas in more than a century. The transformative accomplishment was made possible by the support and generosity of the city of Amarillo, individuals and communities across Texas, and the commitment of the state's elected officials. “The Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine, like Texas Tech University, was established to fill a vital need,” said Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec. “As the first century of Texas Tech University comes to an end, we can be proud that the School of Veterinary Medicine strengthens the foundation and expands the capability of our university to serve West Texas, our state and the nation for the next 100 years and beyond.” To celebrate this historic achievement, the School of Veterinary Medicine brought together Texas Tech officials, state officials, donors, veterinarians from across the state, and the community to officially cut the ribbon and let them see 185,000 square feet of world-class facilities that generations of veterinary students will proudly call home. “Being a part of something historic like this is a once-in-a-generation – maybe even a one-in-many-generations – opportunity,” said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. “Visionary leaders at Texas Tech, here in Amarillo and across Texas made this possible. It has been a privilege to learn from these inspiring people. “Now I get to work with a community of students, staff and faculty that is second to none. I am so very thankful for what everyone has contributed to make this possible and the opportunity to be a part of our wonderful community.” Local supporters and dignitaries from across Texas and New Mexico, along with Raider Red and the Masked Rider, packed the Robert L. Duncan Plaza at the Amarillo campus to celebrate the ribbon cutting. Speakers for the event included Governor Greg Abbott, Schovanec, Loneragan, Texas Tech University System Board of Regents Chairman J. Michael Lewis, Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., Amarillo Mayor Ginger Nelson and veterinary medicine student Cassidy Snow. “This is a historic day for Texas Tech and everyone who loves animal agriculture,” Governor Abbott said. “I am proud to stand by Texas Tech as you open this first-rate, state-of-the-art veterinary school.” Following the ribbon cutting, guests toured the campus and got a first-hand look at the interactive classrooms, state-of-the-art research laboratories, teaching laboratories, student support areas and much more. “Opening the vet school is like opening a wide gate to opportunity for students and for our economy,” Nelson said. “The benefits will multiply across our state and its agriculture economy for decades to come.” About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation, from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE). The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with deep life experiences in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Video resources for media can be found here. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Feature Stories, President, Research, Stories, TTU Features, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, Videos, provost Texas Tech University System Established in 1996, the Texas Tech University System is one of the top public university systems in the nation, consisting of five universities – Texas Tech University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Angelo State University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso and Midwestern State University. Headquartered in Lubbock, Texas, the TTU System is a $2.5 billion enterprise focused on advancing higher education, health care, research and outreach with approximately 21,000 employees, more than 63,000 students, nearly 370,000 alumni and an endowment valued at $1.7 billion. In its short history, the TTU System has grown tremendously and is nationally acclaimed, operating at 24 academic locations in 21 cities (19 in Texas, 2 international). During the 87th Texas Legislature under the leadership of Chancellor Dr. Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., the TTU System welcomed MSU Texas as its fifth member institution during the 25-year anniversary of the system. MSU Texas is the only Texas university to become a member of the Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges. Students at MSU Texas choose from more than 60 majors and several pre-professional programs, are active in more than 100 student organizations and bring a spirit of competition to 13 NCAA Division II athletics programs. In addition, the TTU System is one of only nine in the nation to offer programs for undergraduate, medical, law, nursing, pharmacy, dental and veterinary education, among other academic areas. For Texas Tech University System news and updates, follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 22, 2022 9:33 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index