Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The University of Kansas Search form Search this site Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Menu Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Search Search form Search this site Home Adaptable, at-home COVID testing device developed at KU receives funding boost Contact Cody Howard School of Engineering 785-864-2936 codyh@ku.edu Adaptable, at-home COVID testing device developed at KU receives funding boost Fri, 02/25/2022 LAWRENCE — An at-home COVID-19 testing device developed by a University of Kansas professor is another step closer to hitting the market. BioFluidica, a company co-founded by Steven Soper, announced in early February it has received $6 million in Series B2 financing to help bring its LiquidScan instrument to production. Soper — who is a Foundation Distinguished Professor with appointments in the School of Engineering and Department of Chemistry — has spent much of the last two years repurposing “lab on a chip” technology he had previously developed to give doctors simple tools to more easily and quickly diagnose conditions ranging from stroke to different cancers. The financing should help BioFluidica fund some of the next steps in the process, including testing and FDA approval, as well as marketing. “Doing something in the research lab is hard and challenging. Taking it to the next level of a consumer product is daunting,” Soper said of the funding announcement. “All of these things have to be in place, and that’s a major undertaking.” Production, he said, could begin this summer. The LiquidScan device will be able to fit in the palm of a user’s hand — it measures about 8 inches long, 3 inches wide and 3 inches deep. At-home users would put saliva on the test chip, then use a hand-held electronic reader to analyze the results. The whole process would take around 15 minutes. Users would be able to buy a test for about $10, and the reader, which can be reused many times over, for about $50. The emergence of new COVID variants like Delta and Omicron shows that there will be a continued need for such technology, Soper said. “Testing will never go away. It’s now becoming more important,” he said. The LiquidScan device should be adaptable, he said. “It’s easily tuned to accommodate new viruses, and there’s going to be new variants that pop up every year. We’ll be able to take this test and screen for that,” Soper said. That versatility means the device will also have other uses. Soper said collaborators at KU Medical Center, including cancer researcher Andrew Godwin, are looking to use it to screen patients for the early detection of ovarian cancer, while others hope to use it as a way to quickly diagnose people experiencing ischemic strokes. “I have a lot of hope for this technology. This never could’ve been realized without several things — including, number one, the resource capabilities at KU,” Soper said, referring to the Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility at Gray-Little Hall. KU Medical Center has also been instrumental, providing samples for Soper’s team to use as it fine-tunes the device. “An instrument is no good unless you can test it on real clinical samples,” he said. “This is a great example of teamwork between KU-Lawrence and KUMC.” Soper earned his doctorate in bioanalytical chemistry from KU in 1989 and returned to the university as a faculty member in 2016. Funding to develop the COVID-19 test comes from the National Institutes of Health RADx Program. The University of Kansas is a major comprehensive research and teaching university. The university's mission is to lift students and society by educating leaders, building healthy communities and making discoveries that change the world. The KU News Service is the central public relations office for the Lawrence campus. kunews@ku.edu | 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Suite 37, Lawrence, KS 66045 Hometown news Graduation and honor rolls KU News Service podcast KU researchers share their expertise on today's most pressing topics, including COVID-19. Search all KU News Search All KU News Search options » Subscribe to KU Today KU in the news The Washington Post — Tue, 05/24/2022 Americans aren’t asking for transgender sports bans. So why pass them? The Economist — Mon, 05/23/2022 Politicians have long told the poor that they’re not doing poverty right “There are as many coaching cues as there are coaches, but there is a lack of scientific literature focused on exam… https://t.co/28dm2j2i0W «» Follow us on Twitter » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » KU Today Contact The University of Kansas 785-864-2700 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Foursquare Pintrest All social media at KU » Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Contacts CMS Login Giving Jobs Maps