Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Business ‘We want to show students how to be entrepreneurs’ In a Harvard Law School reading group, entrepreneurs and legal operation specialists are sharing a road map for using technology to change the legal profession. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Intellectual Property Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Association for Law and Business, Harvard Journal of Law and Technology Steve Kerr holds court at Harvard Law Steve Kerr, head coach for the Golden State Warriors, discusses leadership and basketball as part of the Dream Big speaker series at Harvard Law. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Business, International, Sports & Entertainment Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Association for Law and Business, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Training future women presidents of Africa With the Women Heads of State Initiative virtual summit, Teresa Clarke J.D. ’87/M.B.A. ’88 and Professor Ruth Okediji LL.M. ’91 S.J.D. ’96 brought together four female African heads of state to explore opportunities for the continent’s future advancement. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International, Legal History, Public Policy Tackling issues at the intersection of technology, democracy, and human rights Susan Hendrickson ’93, the new executive director of the Berkman Klein Center, recently spoke with Harvard Law Today about her career path, her advice for law students, what keeps her up at night and why, nevertheless, she continues to be optimistic about tech. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Public Service, Science & Technology The Institute for Rebooting Social Media announces its inaugural cohort of visiting scholars The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University has announced its Institute for Rebooting Social Media’s inaugural cohort of Visiting Scholars. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Science & Technology Digital Treasury accounts would expand banking access for financially vulnerable In recent paper, Howell Jackson and Timothy Massad propose that the U.S. Treasury Department implement a new mechanism to improve financial services for financially vulnerable households and expedite delivery of government benefits. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Business, Family, Gender & Children, Fiduciary Law, Public Policy The Crypto of the Realm A Harvard Law class explores possibilities for a U.S. central bank digital currency, which would be sheltered from the wild fluctuations in value for which crypto is known. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Science & Technology ‘Maybe I will do something bigger that hopefully impacts the world’ At an HLS talk, Byron Allen — owner of the most successful Black-owned media group in history — shared his career history and experiences with the law. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Civil Rights Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Black Law Students Association Purpose-driven Three Harvard Law alumni collaborate on a major research study on opportunities for social enterprises in Ibero-America. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Business, International Family matters Harvard Law Today caught up with two pairs of identical twins on campus to find out what life is like with a double. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Business, International, Sports & Entertainment Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard International Law Journal, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Loop navigation Page 1 of 55 First Previous 1 2 3 … 55 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.