Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today International Recognition for The Institute of Environmental and Human Health Professor Paul Tubbs May 27, 2022 Ronald Kendall receives 2021 Founders Award from the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. Just five months after being selected to receive the Founders Award from the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC), Ronald Kendall now has the award in hand. The professor of environmental toxicology at Texas Tech University received the award earlier this month from SETAC during their Global Awards presentation in Copenhagen, Denmark. Ron Kendall The annual award is the highest honor SETAC can bestow on a member who has made outstanding contributions to scientific development. Kendall's career has focused a great deal of attention on the ecological impact of environmental contaminants on wildlife and an ecological approach to environmental risk assessment. “To be invited to Copenhagen by SETAC and be featured at the awards ceremony was a humbling experience,” Kendall said. “To be asked to take the stage to address the close-to-filled auditorium as well as hundreds of members online was a true highlight of the trip that I appreciated very much.” Kendall not only is a charter member of SETAC, serving as president from 1992-1993, but is the founding director of The Institute of Environmental and Human Health (TIEHH) at Texas Tech as well as the founding chairman of the Department of Environmental Toxicology. Kendall's contributions have been key to large strides both TIEHH and SETAC have made over the years. “I believe a global award of this level not only recognizes my long-term contribution to the environmental sciences, but also brings significant recognition to our Environmental Toxicology program at Texas Tech and recognizes Texas Tech as a leader in the field of environmental toxicology,” Kendall said. Kendall's colleagues agree. “This entire institute was his creation,” said Steven Presley, director of TIEHH. “I have the utmost respect for Dr. Kendall as a professional. To take a program that he is so passionate about and turn it into something that's still here 22 years later and still productive. – my hats off to him and congratulations.” Kendall's work continues to evolve from a founder and leader to innovator. “Twenty-five years later, I feel like I have come full circle academically and in the field of environmental toxicology in being recognized with the Founders Award,” Kendall said. “I am thrilled to not only achieve this personally, but also for my university.” About the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry The Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) is an international nonprofit organization with more than 5,000 members in 90 countries dedicated to the advancement of environmental research and education. About the Institute for Environmental and Human Health The Institute of Environmental and Human Health was created in 1997 as a joint venture between Texas Tech and the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center to assess the impact of toxic chemicals and diseases on the physical and human environments, including air, water, soil and animal life. Researchers investigate elements in the environment, both those that are naturally occurring such as disease and those caused by humans, such as nuclear activity, pollution or chemical or bioterrorism, which negatively impact the environment. It is one of the few labs in the country dedicated to environmental toxicology. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Achievements, Faculty, Institute of Environmental and Human Health, Research, Stories, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater.Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile TIEHH <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Institute of Environmental and Human Health was created in 1997 as a joint venture between Texas Tech and the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center to assess the impact of toxic chemicals and diseases on the physical and human environments, including air, water, soil and animal life. Researchers investigate elements in the environment, both those that are naturally occurring such as disease and those caused by humans, such as nuclear activity, pollution or chemical or bioterrorism, which negatively impact the environment. It is one of the few labs in the country dedicated to environmental toxicology.Facebook YouTube Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university.Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 27, 2022 9:20 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index