Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Science & Tech Two Texas A&M Faculty To Join National Academy Of Engineering Membership is considered to be one of the highest honors for professional engineers. By Texas A&M University Faculty Affairs March 1, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Two Texas A&M University faculty members have been elected to the National Academy of Engineering (NAE). Mladen Kezunovic and Vijay Singh are among 111 new members and 22 international members who will be inducted in October. NAE members are elected by peers, who are current NAE members. Once inducted, Texas A&M will be home to 30 NAE members among the current faculty. Membership is one of the highest global professional honors an engineer can receive in their career. As component of The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, NAE began under the same congressional act President Lincoln signed in 1863 to establish the National Academy of Sciences. Under this act, NAE is directed “whenever called upon by any department or agency of government, to investigate, examine, experiment, and report upon any subject of science or art.” The National Academy of Engineering was established in 1964 under the same congressional charter. The 2022 NAE elections bring the total number of U.S. members to 2,388 and 310 international members. A reception for Kezunovic and Singh will be held Tuesday, March 1 at the Bethancourt Ballroom in the Memorial Student Center. Those who would like to join in the celebration are invited to attend the event at 6:15 p.m. via livestream. Mladen Kezunovic, College of Engineering, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Kezunovic is a Regents Professor and Eugene E. Webb Professor. He was elected to the NAE for his contributions to automated analysis of power system faults and leadership in education in protective relaying. Read more about his accomplishments on the College of Engineering website. Mladen Kezunovic. Texas A&M Engineering Vijay Singh, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences; College of Engineering, Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering Singh is a University Distinguished Professor, Regents Professor and Caroline & William N. Lehrer Distinguished Chair. He was elected to the NAE for his contributions to wave modeling and development of entrophy-based theories of hydrologic processes and hydroclimatic extremes. Read more about Singh on the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences website. Vijay P. Singh. Laura McKenzie/Texas A&M AgriLife Communications Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Related Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Health & Environment Texas A&M Health Faculty Rank Among Top 2 Percent Of Scholars Worldwide Twenty-six faculty members appear in Stanford University’s “World’s Top 2% Scientists” list. Campus Life 92 Texas A&M Instructors Earn Credentials Through Instructional Excellence Project Texas A&M's Center for Teaching Excellence recognized newly credentialed faculty at a ceremony this month. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Name Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top