Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law Bulletin - Fall 2020 Table of Contents Features ‘This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for change’ HLS faculty on COVID-19 and the pressing questions of racism, racial injustice, and abuse of power that have driven this difficult year—and that are the focus of three new lecture series at the school. Continue Reading How It All Adds Up Lawrence Lessig discusses institutional threats to representative democracy. Continue Reading An Election for the History Books? Harvard professors place the 2020 presidential race in historical context and consider its impact on our future. Continue Reading Reforming the Presidency Jack Goldsmith speaks with the Bulletin about the most effective approach to regulating the executive branch, “the absolute low point” of presidential relations with the press, and the one issue on which he, an independent, and his co-author, a Democrat, could not agree. Continue Reading Departments Inside HLS: News and Views From Campus Alumni Notes & Newsmakers Writ Large: Faculty Books Letters In Memoriam Browse Issue → Submit A Class Note Submit A Letter Submit an Obituary Contact Us Bulletin Archives An Election for the History Books? Harvard professors place the 2020 presidential race in historical context and consider its impact on the future of our democracy Harvard professors place the 2020 presidential race in historical context and consider its impact on our future. Continue Reading Continue Reading » Other Featured Stories ‘This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for change’ How It All Adds Up Reforming the Presidency On the Front Lines of History Writ Large A Movement that Mattered Despite the tragedies that followed it, the Arab Spring provided lessons and hope for a better future, Noah Feldman argues in a new book In “The Arab Winter: A Tragedy,” Feldman writes: “People whose political lives had been determined and shaped from the outside tried politics for themselves, and for a time succeeded. That this did not lead to constitutional democracy or even to a more decent life for most of those affected is not a reason to believe that the effort was meaningless.” Continue Reading Books in Brief: Fall 2020 New works on redeeming the administrative state, navigating parenting in a world in which children are immersed in technology, and understanding the importance of understanding how much information you need. Continue Reading Reforming the Presidency In a new book, Jack Goldsmith and Bob Bauer analyze the Trump administration and propose the first major reform agenda for the nation’s highest office since Watergate Jack Goldsmith speaks with the Bulletin about the most effective approach to regulating the executive branch, “the absolute low point” of presidential relations with the press, and the one issue on which he, an independent, and his co-author, a Democrat, could not agree. Continue Reading See All » Alumni Notes and Newsmakers The Jury Is Out—of the Courthouse By March 17, just two weeks after Texas reported its first case of COVID-19, Judge Emily Miskel ’08 was back on the figurative bench, presiding over a one-hour virtual temporary restraining order hearing from home. Hidden History For Duckenfield, it was about learning about the past but also connecting it to the present. The people buried in these cemeteries deserve respect and attention, he says—no different from African Americans living now whose stories are often unknown and unseen by the larger population. HLS Authors: Fall 2020 Alumni books that shed light on what formed a president, a vice-presidential candidate, and a barrier-breaking empire builder, among other topics. Class Notes Sampler Send in your class notes and learn how to access all class notes in Amicus. See All » James Friedlander – 1966 October 15, 2020 James Friedlander ’66 writes: “Retirement is not what it used to be. Have taken on two part-time general counsel roles this year. One is with a new cannabis company involved in the cultivation, processing, and sale and distribution of CBD oil and other cannabis products. The other is general counsel with a new company treating mentally ill patients in the U.K. with drugs and therapies. In addition to many hours of walking each week.” Continue Reading Christopher A. Edwards – 1998 October 15, 2020 Christopher A. Edwards ’98 has been promoted from counsel to the New Jersey attorney general to executive assistant attorney general (for the state of New Jersey). He advises the attorney general on the office’s most sensitive and significant legal matters, and oversees the state’s defensive litigation docket. Continue Reading Grace Nosek – 2014 October 15, 2020 Grace Nosek ’14 is the author of “American voters in Canada could hold the key to our climate future, and many don’t even know it,” an op-ed published by the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. on September 25, 2020. The piece explores how inextricably linked the U.S. and Canada are when it comes to the climate crisis and the profound gap between the climate plans of President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. Continue Reading Gallery Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Harvard Law: A 64-year journey The late U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was enrolled at HLS from 1956 to 1958. In the years since, Ginsburg returned to Harvard Law School many times. See the full gallery of photos. Credit: Martha Stewart. Credit: Harvard Law School Yearbook. Credit: Harvard Law School Historical & Special Collections. Credit: Bradford Herzog. Credit: HLS Historical & Special Collections. + 26 More » + 23 More » Letters And I thought I knew con law: Pigeons, corn pellets and the transformative effect of Larry Tribe’s teaching Ivan Orton ’77 Seattle, Washington The first lesson Larry Tribe taught me in his Constitutional Law fall 1975 class at the start of my second year at HLS concerned pigeons and corn pellets. Continue Reading Fond Forum memories and congrats to Jerry Rappaport Edmund R. Rosenkrantz ’54 Montclair, New Jersey Julia Hanna’s article about the new Law School Rappaport Forum (“Coming Full Circle”) awakened some nice memories. Continue Reading Submit a letter Write to the Harvard Law Bulletin—send letters in response to this issue. Continue Reading See All » In Memoriam In Memoriam Bulletin Fall 2020 View the complete Fall 2020 In Memoriam. See All » ‘We have lost a giant’: Ruth Bader Ginsburg (1933–2020) September 18, 2020 U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg ’56-58, whose lifelong fight for equal rights helped pave the way for women to take on high-profile roles in business, government, the military, and the Supreme Court, died on Sept. 18. She was 87. Continue Reading A tireless advocate for access to justice, Ralph D. Gants ’80 (1954-2020) September 16, 2020 Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Chief Justice Ralph D. Gants ’80, a tireless advocate for access to justice, died on Sept. 14. Renowned for his intelligence and his integrity, Gants used his leadership role in the commonwealth’s court system to press for fairness, equality under the law, and justice for all. Continue Reading ‘The scholar, teacher, and colleague we should all hope to be’: Anne Fleming ’05 (1979-2020) September 2, 2020 Anne Fleming ’05, a former HLS Climenko Fellow, a legal historian and a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, died suddenly Aug. 26 from an embolism. Her research interests included contract and commercial law, consumer finance, and American legal history, with a focus on the relationship between law and poverty. Continue Reading Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.