Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Teaching & Learning, Student Spotlights, Faculty Scholarship Inspiring change By HLS News Staff, April 22, 2022 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Credit: Getty Images/Trifonov_Evgeniy Harvard Law students, scholars, clinics, and programs work throughout the year to address some our most pressing environmental issues. On Earth Day, we highlight some of their research and projects. Harvard Law students track environmental laws and regulations across administrations Credit: Brett Monroe Garner/Getty Images Harvard Law School’s Environmental and Energy Law Program’s (EELP) regulatory tracker is an invaluable resource for journalists, policymakers, advocates, and legislators — as well as a learning tool that gives its first-year law students hands-on experience with the real-world application of energy and environmental regulation. Read More “The regulatory tracker work has expanded my horizons as I think about the ways that I’ll be able to use my legal skill set in the environmental space.” — Kipper Berven ’24 CleanLaw Podcast: Jody Freeman and Richard Lazarus on West Virginia v. EPA, What’s Next? CleanLaw: Harvard Environmental & Energy Law · 67-Power Plant Greenhouse Gas Emissions and West Virginia v. EPA, What’s Next? Harvard Law Professors Jody Freeman LL.M. ’91 S.J.D. ’95 and Richard Lazarus ’79 discuss the Supreme Court case West Virginia v. EPA. The Court’s decision in this case will address the scope of EPA’s authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector, potentially impacting future EPA rules. Read More “We don’t have forever to wait to bring down these emissions. We need to as quickly as possible, and a loss in the Supreme Court would hurt that.” — Richard Lazarus ’79 Current electric vehicles subsidies fail to reduce overall emissions, says Harvard Law study A new study led by Ashley Nunes, Ph.D., a fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program, says that because many buyers of new EVs — usually more affluent households — don’t use them as their primary vehicle nor keep them for very long, the miles driven by the car’s subsequent owners are necessary to attain an overall reduction in emissions. Read More “By subsidizing richer households and not secondhand buyers, we are rewarding those who aren’t always helping to reach emissions targets, while ignoring those who actually do. It’s a situation that is both unfair and detrimental to our climate goals.” — Ashley Nunes Electric slide Credit: iStock/DrAfter123 How the Emmett Environmental Law & Policy Clinic at Harvard Law School is helping Massachusetts cities and towns lead the country to reach net zero by 2050. Read More “It’s exciting because it allowed us and our clients to be really creative and forward-thinking in drafting the law. We got to speak with a lot of legislators and leaders in the energy sector, and Massachusetts has an opportunity to lead the way for other states that are inevitably thinking about transitioning to geothermal and other renewable energy sources as well.” — Ytran Hoang ’22 Figueres receives 2022 Great Negotiator award at HLS Credit: Martha Stewart Christiana Figueres (center) with Program on Negotiation Managing Director Nicole Bryant and PON Faculty Chair Guhan Subramanian. On April 14, Christiana Figueres received the Great Negotiator Award, an honor bestowed each year by the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School. Figueres, former executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, was an architect of the 2015 Paris Agreement. Read More “Climate change is something we have all collectively caused. Therefore, it is something we have to all collectively do something about.” — Christina Figueres Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Topics: Environmental People: Jody Freeman, Richard Lazarus Research Programs: Environmental and Energy Law Program, Labor and Worklife Program, Program on Negotiation Clinics & SPOs: Emmett Environmental Law and Policy Clinic Tags: Editor's Pick Further Reading: Supreme Court preview: West Virginia v. EPA February 28, 2022 Evaluating President Biden’s first 100 days: Climate change policy April 29, 2021 Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.