Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Assistant Professor Looking to Reduce Economic Losses in Dairy Cattle Industry Allen Ramsey May 10, 2022 Clarissa Strieder-Barboza received a grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to study the effects of ketosis in dairy cattle. Texas Tech University's Clarissa Strieder-Barboza received a $300,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) Cooperative Research Ed & Extension Service for the purpose of understanding the mechanisms leading to the development of ketosis dairy cows. Strieder-Barboza, an assistant professor with a dual appointment in the Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Department of Veterinary Sciences and the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, aims to improve production in dairy cows by reducing the impact of ketosis, the natural metabolic process of burning fat cells to produce energy when carbohydrates are not available. “Our ultimate goal is to reduce economic losses associated with decreased milk production, reproductive performance and welfare in cows that develop ketosis after calving,” Strieder-Barboza said. By obtaining fat tissue from early lactation cows, both with and without ketosis present, and using novel genomics techniques such as single-cell RNA sequencing analysis, Strieder-Barboza believes her research can form the basis for developing new methods of preventing metabolic diseases. “We expect to reveal how ketosis affects specific cell subtypes in adipose tissues using highly innovative techniques,” she said. “This work will be the basis for developing new nutritional and therapeutic interventions to prevent metabolic disease.” According to Strieder-Barboza, ketosis may affect up to 80% of early lactation dairy cows. Understanding how ketosis affects fat tissue function, including its ability to break down during energy shortage, is crucial in developing preventative measures to help offset economic losses. “The first step toward developing tissue- and cell-specific therapies against ketosis is identifying which cell subtypes are involved in fat tissue dysfunction,” she explained. “It's similar to what is being developed in human medicine to prevent and treat obesity and Type 2 diabetes.” About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE) and welcomed its first cohort of students in August 2021. The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with a passion to serve rural and regional communities. Its curriculum focuses on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Faculty, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources is made up of six departments: Agriculture and Applied Economics Agricultural Education and Communications Animal and Food Science Landscape Architecture Plant and Soil Science Natural Resources Management Twitter Facebook YouTube School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 10, 2022 2:47 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index