Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech, College of Engineering Grant Tuition for Make-A-Wish Student Allen Ramsey May 19, 2022 (VIDEO) Matthew’s dream of attending college with his tuition paid will be fulfilled. Texas Tech University and the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering partnered with Make-A-Wish North Texas to turn a dream into reality. Matthew, an 18-year-old high-school senior battling a brain tumor, wished to have his college tuition paid for. That wish has been granted, with Texas Tech and Make-A-Wish each giving Matthew $5,000 scholarships and the College of Engineering adding a $2,000 scholarship. The $12,000 total scholarship gives him the ability to attend Texas Tech tuition-free for the next school year. Matthew received the scholarships Wednesday during an event at the Frazier Alumni Pavilion and, though he knew about the Make-A-Wish scholarship, he was surprised to learn that he'd also receive scholarships from the university and the college. “Today I got a pleasant surprise, with a lot of support from this campus,” Matthew said. “I was happy to attend before and now I'm even more excited because I already can see how loved I'll be here.” Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec, College of Engineering Dean Al Sacco Jr and Texas Tech head football coach Joey McGuire attended the event, with McGuire bringing Red Raider football tickets and an autographed ball for Matthew. “As we go about our daily business and all the issues that come up, it's a moment like this that makes you realize why we are in the business of education,” Schovanec said. “That this young man would give us this chance to be a part of his life is humbling.” Matthew has enrolled in Red Raider Orientation and, along with the scholarships for tuition, was presented with a scholarship to attend Red Raider Camp later this summer. He also was offered an on-campus job for the fall semester. “It's amazing,” Matthew's father Shane said. “It's going to allow him to not worry as much. The first year, you don't want to worry about your money and getting jobs and the hard times. “I did the full-time work and the full-time college. Now his first year let him get in the swing of things. This is just going to take so much of the load off.” Matthew has a passion for computers and will pursue a degree from the Department of Computer Science. Make-A-Wish's North Texas chapter is one of 59 chapters across the U.S. and the Make-A-Wish organization has fulfilled wishes for more than 340,000 children since 1980. The North Texas chapter encompasses 161 of the 254 counties in Texas and has granted more than 11,500 wishes since 1982. Photo Gallery Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Engineering, Feature Stories, Research, Stories, TTU Features, Vice President for Research, Videos, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater.Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Whitacre College of Engineering<!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering has educated engineers to meet the technological needs of Texas, the nation and the world since 1925. Approximately 4,646 undergraduate and 1,040 graduate students pursue bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees offered through seven academic departments: civil, environmental and construction; chemical; computer science; electrical and computer; industrial, manufacturing and systems; mechanical; and petroleum.Twitter Facebook YouTube Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university.Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index May 19, 2022