Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Science & Tech Texas A&M Launches Newest Engineering Academy At Tarrant County College The academy allows students to pursue one of 22 majors within the College of Engineering at Texas A&M. By Texas A&M Engineering May 25, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Isabel Garcia, who enrolled in an Engineering Academy and is now studying electrical engineering in College Station, helped announce the new partnership with Tarrant County College. (l-r): Interim Dean of the College of Engineering John E. Hurtado, Texas A&M System Chancellor John Sharp, Garcia and Ed Bassett, director of Texas A&M engineering academies. Photo courtesy of Rose Bassett Texas A&M University and Tarrant County College have launched the Texas A&M Engineering Academy at Tarrant County College and will enroll the first cohort of students in fall 2022. The program will accept applications for the fall through July 31. The innovative co-enrollment partnership was developed to address the state’s growing need for engineers. Qualified students will be admitted to the Texas A&M College of Engineering, complete the first two years of coursework at Tarrant County College and finish their engineering degrees in College Station, Texas. “We are pleased to offer students in Fort Worth a unique pathway toward a first-rate degree from an engineering college ranked among the top 10 in the world,” said Texas A&M University System Chancellor John Sharp. “Our goal is to attract the very best students to Texas A&M Engineering, even if circumstances require them to stay close to home for the first part of their college career.” The Texas A&M Engineering Academy at Tarrant County College allows students to pursue one of 22 majors within the College of Engineering at Texas A&M. “The Engineering Academy program is the first engineering transition program of its kind in the country,” said Dr. John E. Hurtado, interim vice chancellor and dean of engineering at Texas A&M. “Students benefit by saving money while still receiving a world-class education that prepares them for a high-demand career. We welcome these students as proud Aggies from day one.” By offering opportunities like the engineering academies, Texas A&M is able to better serve Texans. Students will save an estimated $4,200 in tuition and fees each semester they are enrolled in an Engineering Academy before transitioning to the Texas A&M campus. “This partnership is an innovative solution to addressing the need for more high-quality engineers in Texas,” said Tarrant County College Acting Chancellor Elva LeBlanc. “Under this partnership, students in Tarrant County will have an affordable pathway to a four-year engineering degree at Texas A&M University. Tarrant County College is committed to providing pathways for students that help them to achieve their educational goals.” In Texas, the projected need for engineers in the workforce is 51,000 by 2028. To meet this need, universities and two-year colleges must work together to bridge the gap and attract and retain students who are interested in STEM fields. Students in the Engineering Academy enroll in math, science and core curriculum courses through Tarrant County College and have the unique opportunity to enroll in engineering courses taught by Texas A&M faculty on the Tarrant County College campus. This newest Engineering Academy in Tarrant County is part of a broader vision of The Texas A&M University System’s Board of Regents and Chancellor John Sharp. A&M System leaders have been working with North Texas elected officials to create “Aggieland North,” which will help strengthen the area’s employment base and bring a top-tier research university to the area. The members of the Board of Regents are expected to take a major step in the creation of “Aggieland North.” At the upcoming board meeting, they will consider adding two facilities – the Texas A&M System Research and Innovation Center and Education Alliance Building – to the System’s Capital Plan. Visit the Engineering Academy program webpage for more information, including how to apply. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Media contact: Amy Klinkovsky, 979-458-8437, amyk@tamu.edu Related Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Appoints Intercollegiate School Of Engineering Medicine Dean The school is expected to be the largest engineering-based medical degree program in the nation. Campus Life Two Texas A&M Faculty Receive Prestigious TAMEST Edith And Peter O’Donnell Awards The annual awards recognize rising science and engineering stars in the Texas research community. Science & Tech Biden Names Texas A&M Engineer To Prestigious Advisory Panel Nuclear security expert Marvin L. Adams will help steer the United States' path on science, technology and innovation. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Name Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top