Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Immerse Ashley Rodgers May 25, 2022 The center at Junction offers Texas Tech University courses in three 15-day sessions. Students can earn 3-4 credit hours in course offerings such as Field Ecology, Field Geography, Photography, Interactive Experiences in the Wild, Mammalogy, Ornithology, Herpetology and Wildlife Techniques. These classes offer unique and transformative experiences for undergraduate and graduate students to work and conduct research in the field alongside professors and industry professionals. The intense nature and immersive education unites these students, creating a bond that lasts a lifetime. For more information, visit Texas Tech University at Junction. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Feature Stories, Stories, TTU Features Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater.Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Texas Tech Regional Sites You don't have to live in Lubbock to pursue a degree from Texas Tech University. With recognized unique regional teaching sites extending our reach across the state, your educational goals can be achieved from anywhere! The degrees earned from Texas Tech regional sites are the same as those earned on the main campus in Lubbock. In other words, your diploma will read the same as those graduating from the on-campus degree programs in Lubbock. Take a course, or pursue a degree or certificate through one of Texas Tech's regional sites: Collin El Paso Fredericksburg Highland Lakes Hill College Junction Rockwall Waco Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university.Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 27, 2022 9:42 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index