Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Governor To Join Ribbon Cutting Ceremony at Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Weston Brooks April 15, 2022 The school will celebrate the official opening of its state-of-the-art facilities. WHAT: Texas Tech University's School of Veterinary Medicine will host a ribbon-cutting to celebrate the completion of its state-of-the-art, $90 million facilities. WHEN: 2 p.m. Friday (April 22) WHERE: School of Veterinary Medicine, 7671 Evans Drive, Amarillo, Texas 79106 EVENT: The School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo is the first new veterinary program established in the state of Texas in more than a century. Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and other communities across Texas and the commitment of Governor Abbott and state legislators, Texas Tech began construction on the School of Veterinary Medicine in 2020. The ribbon cutting will bring together the community, donors, Texas Tech officials, elected leaders and veterinarians from Texas and beyond to celebrate the school's completed facilities as well as those who have contributed and advocated to make this dream a reality. Scheduled speakers include Governor Greg Abbott, Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec, Texas Tech University System Board of Regents Chairman J. Michael Lewis, Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., Amarillo Mayor Ginger Nelson, School of Veterinary Medicine Dean Guy Loneragan, veterinary student Cassidy Snow. For those who cannot attend in person, the event will be streamed live at TTU.edu/livestream. MEDIA – Select event speakers will be available for interviews following the ceremony in room 113 of the School of Veterinary Medicine. CONTACT: Weston Brooks Director, Media and Communications, Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine, Texas Tech University wesbrook@ttu.edu (806) 834-8323 Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: News Releases, Veterinary School, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 15, 2022 1:28 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index