Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Clinical Practice Cara Mund receives the Kristin P. Muniz Memorial Award Cara Mund ‘22 is the winner of the second annual Kristin P. Muniz Memorial Award. Mund is recognized for her commitment to justice, her advocacy, compassion for her clients, and stellar representation of each of those clients. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Criminal Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Law School Mock Trial Association, Harvard Women's Law Association, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Henry Beshar and Stacey Menjivar receive 2022 Clinical Legal Education Association Awards Henry Beshar and Stacey Menjivar are the recipients of the 2022 Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA) Awards. The awards are presented annually to students from each law school for outstanding clinical coursework and contributions to the clinical community. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Comparative Law, Cyberlaw, Human Rights, Public Policy Brianna Banks named winner of Stuntz Memorial Award This year, Brianna Banks was named the 2022 winner of the William J. Stuntz Memorial Award for Justice, Human Dignity, and Compassion, which recognizes a graduating student who has demonstrated an exemplary commitment to the principles of justice, human dignity, and compassion while at Harvard Law School. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Civil Rights, Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Women's Law Association, Harvard Black Law Students Association A haven for taxpayers Harvard Law’s Federal Tax Clinic helps low-income taxpayers shed their debts — and stress. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice, Public Policy, Public Service, Taxation and Finance Harvard Representation Initiative supports members of the Harvard community affected by the crisis in Ukraine The Harvard Representation Initiative is supporting some Ukranian members of the Harvard community by providing immigration legal representation and social work support, offering options to keep them and their families safe. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International Life imitating art As an LL.M. student at Harvard Law School who is about to launch both a solo show and a collective exhibition with other Black artists across Harvard, Suleyman Wellings-Longmore LL.M. ’22 says he can finally see how his legal and artistic passions inspire and fuel one another. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Human Rights, International, Mediation & Negotiation Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Prison Legal Assistance Project, HLS Advocates for Human Rights Cravath Fellows explore international, foreign, and comparative law abroad During Winter Term, Cravath International Fellows pursued independent clinical placements or research projects, exploring legal frameworks and practices in six countries. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Comparative Law, Constitutional, Family, Gender & Children, Housing Law, Human Rights, International ‘Grateful for it all’ Harvard Law alum Esther Mulder ‘14 discusses her journey from foster care to a career in public defense. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Clinical Practice, Public Service Meredith D.L. Boak named assistant dean for Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Meredith D.L. Boak ’12 has been appointed Harvard Law School’s assistant dean for Clinical and Pro Bono Programs, replacing Lisa Dealy, who retired in May after 30 years at the law school. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice Uplifting children’s voices in the Child Advocacy Clinic In Harvard Law School’s Child Advocacy Clinic, students practice a variety of legal skills in order to amplify the voices of their most vulnerable clients: children. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children Loop navigation Page 1 of 34 First Previous 1 2 3 … 34 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.