Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: International Brianna Banks named winner of Stuntz Memorial Award This year, Brianna Banks was named the 2022 winner of the William J. Stuntz Memorial Award for Justice, Human Dignity, and Compassion, which recognizes a graduating student who has demonstrated an exemplary commitment to the principles of justice, human dignity, and compassion while at Harvard Law School. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Civil Rights, Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Women's Law Association, Harvard Black Law Students Association Gina Starfield wins 2022 David A. Grossman Exemplary Clinical Student Award Gina Starfield, a committed advocate for immigrant rights, is the recipient of the 2022 David Grossman Exemplary Clinical Student Award. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Civil Rights, Human Rights, International Anoush Baghdassarian receives the 2022 Andrew L. Kaufman Pro Bono Award Anoush Baghdassarian ’22, whose connection to her Armenian heritage sparked a mission to address human rights violations, is the recipient of the 2022 Andrew L. Kaufman Pro Bono Award. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Human Rights, International Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard International Law Journal, Harvard Human Rights Journal, La Alianza LGBTI communities from around the world affirm their right to health At a recent public consultation, the U.N. Independent Expert on sexual orientation and gender identity Victor Madrigal-Borloz, a senior visiting researcher at Harvard Law School’s Human Rights Program, gathered testimonies on the well-being of LGBTI communities around the world. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Family, Gender & Children, International, Public Service ‘Democracy and open society, human dignity, doesn’t necessarily win — we have to work for it’ The Harvard International Law Journal recently hosted a discussion with Stavros Lambrinidis, ambassador of the European Union to the United States. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Human Rights, International Steve Kerr holds court at Harvard Law Steve Kerr, head coach for the Golden State Warriors, discusses leadership and basketball as part of the Dream Big speaker series at Harvard Law. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Business, International, Sports & Entertainment Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Association for Law and Business, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Training future women presidents of Africa With the Women Heads of State Initiative virtual summit, Teresa Clarke J.D. ’87/M.B.A. ’88 and Professor Ruth Okediji LL.M. ’91 S.J.D. ’96 brought together four female African heads of state to explore opportunities for the continent’s future advancement. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International, Legal History, Public Policy Tackling issues at the intersection of technology, democracy, and human rights Susan Hendrickson ’93, the new executive director of the Berkman Klein Center, recently spoke with Harvard Law Today about her career path, her advice for law students, what keeps her up at night and why, nevertheless, she continues to be optimistic about tech. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Public Service, Science & Technology The Institute for Rebooting Social Media announces its inaugural cohort of visiting scholars The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University has announced its Institute for Rebooting Social Media’s inaugural cohort of Visiting Scholars. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Science & Technology Harvard Representation Initiative supports members of the Harvard community affected by the crisis in Ukraine The Harvard Representation Initiative is supporting some Ukranian members of the Harvard community by providing immigration legal representation and social work support, offering options to keep them and their families safe. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International Loop navigation Page 1 of 91 First Previous 1 2 3 … 91 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.