Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law Bulletin - Summer 2021 Table of Contents Features Oh, what a tangled web we weave Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. If a healthy democracy relies on an informed populace — or at least one not deliberately disinformed by malicious actors — then the prevalence of disinformation is an existential threat. What, if anything, can or should be done? Continue Reading ‘What can we do to help create 150 years of change in 10 years?’ Andrew Manuel Crespo ’08 and Premal Dharia, leaders of the ambitious new Institute to End Mass Incarceration, take aim at ‘one of the defining civil rights issues of our time’ Continue Reading Off the bench and into the breach Merrick Garland ’77 made the unusual choice to leave a lifetime appointment on the nation’s second most influential court to instead lead a federal agency with roughly 115,000 employees. Unusual, but not surprising, say those who know him well. Continue Reading Katherine Tai represents In her new role as U.S. trade representative, Tai ’01 brings legal expertise, political savvy, and a deep commitment to American workers. Continue Reading Departments Inside HLS: News and Views From Campus Alumni Notes & Newsmakers Writ Large: Faculty Books Letters From the Dean Gallery In Memoriam Class Notes Browse Issue → Submit A Class Note Submit A Letter Submit an Obituary Contact Us Bulletin Archives Download PDF Oh, what a tangled web we weave Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. If a healthy democracy relies on an informed populace — or at least one not deliberately disinformed by malicious actors — then the prevalence of disinformation is an existential threat. What, if anything, can or should be done? Continue Reading Continue Reading » More Featured Stories ‘What can we do to help create 150 years of change in 10 years?’ Katherine Tai represents Off the bench and into the breach The battle for the ballot box Gallery The Pentagon Papers case today Does the First Amendment still protect the press when it lawfully receives classified information unlawfully obtained? Does the First Amendment still protect the press when it lawfully receives classified information unlawfully obtained? Continue Reading Continue Reading » Writ Large A Sense of Place Vice Age HLS Film The Crits! A film by Jeannie Suk Gersen highlights the drama and import of the Critical Legal Studies movement Inside HLS An activist at home in the world Ais has been immersed in a blend of advocacy, legal scholarship, and community building. Breyer cautions against the ‘peril of politics’ To retain the public’s trust, Justice Breyer argued, changes should come not from political reform, but in recommitment to ideals within the Court itself and in the American people. Paying tribute Retiring faculty Betsy Bartholet and Jerry Frug are celebrated by former students. Alumni Notes and Newsmakers Finding her voice From her early years to the formation of her opera company, Cerise Lim Jacobs ’81 has charted an unexpected path. The battle for the ballot box ‘I’m still trying to understand my role in this complex place’ A presidential journey HLS Authors: Selected Alumni Books Summer 2021 In Memoriam Wendy Jacobs: 1956-2021 Wendy Jacobs, one of the nation’s most highly celebrated environmental law experts, was the founding director of the first-ever environmental law and policy clinic at Harvard Law School. Susan Cole: 1948-2021 Harvard Law School Lecturer on Law Susan Cole made it her life’s work to help schools and policymakers understand the impact of trauma on learning. David Cope: 1948-2021 A brilliant intellect and devoted, compassionate teacher, Harvard Law School Lecturer on Law David Cope taught at the school for more than 20 years. Gustave M. Hauser: 1929 – 2021 Gustave Hauser ’53 was a cable television pioneer and, with his wife Rita Hauser ’58, a dedicated supporter of Harvard Law School. Class Notes Class Notes are online! Class Notes for the Summer 2021 Bulletin issue are available online through Amicus, our secure HLS community-building platform. Learn how to access Amicus and view Class Notes. Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.