Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Culture & Society Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. May 27, 2022 Culture & Society The Science Behind Texas Barbecue Texas A&M AgriLife elevates the barbecue industry through meat science teaching, research and outreach. May 16, 2022 Culture & Society Meeting Putin, Working For Gorbachev, And More Lessons From Russia Against the backdrop of the recently collapsed Soviet Union, Texas A&M School of Law Dean Robert Ahdieh crossed paths with numerous familiar political figures during his undergraduate studies and research in Moscow. May 10, 2022 Culture & Society Texas A&M To Offer Courses On Responsible A.I. The university is among 16 institutions accepted into an artificial intelligence ethics initiative backed by the National Humanities Center (NHC) and Google. April 19, 2022 Culture & Society Could Putin Be Held Accountable For War Crimes In Ukraine? A Texas A&M expert says the mechanisms are in place, but the question is whether Russian President Vladimir Putin or his associates will ever stand trial. April 19, 2022 Culture & Society In Ukraine Conflict, Nuclear Escalation Is Possible, But Not Likely, Expert Says Russia’s nuclear arsenal gives it significant leverage — but even using a small atomic bomb would be tremendously costly for Putin and his government, says Texas A&M political science professor Matthew Fuhrmann. April 13, 2022 Culture & Society ‘It’s Unspeakable, What’s Happening’: Texas A&M Law Student Shares Experience Working With Refugees In Poland Allison Byrd flew to Warsaw last month to educate people fleeing Ukraine on how to avoid human trafficking. April 8, 2022 Culture & Society Panel Highlights Achievements Of Three Feminist Activists The discussion served as an introduction to the Department of Liberal Arts’ history conference “The Second Wave: Revolutionary Women of Color.” March 29, 2022 Culture & Society What’s Next For Ukraine? Ambassador William Taylor Lays Out Three Scenarios In a discussion hosted by the Scowcroft Institute of International Affairs, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine gave his assessment of the conflict and explained how he thinks it could end. March 16, 2022 Culture & Society ‘No-Fly Zones,’ Explained, And Why We’re Unlikely To See One Over Ukraine Texas A&M experts say the risks associated with direct military action against a nuclear-armed Russia are simply too great to ignore. March 15, 2022 First page Previous Page page 1 page 2 page … page 32 Next Page Last page Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top