Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Alumni Focus Recent coverage of alumni all over the world Commencement, redux Harvard Law School Classes of 2020 and 2021 return to campus to celebrate with family and friends. Themes: Alumni Focus ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Elizabeth Warren offered advice and encouragement at a special in-person Commencement celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Themes: Alumni Focus Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Harvard Law’s newest alumni share what they’ve been up to since they graduated, and offer a few words of advice for the Class of 2022. Themes: Alumni Focus Flashback For decades, joyful and candid moments have marked the occasion of students’ graduations from Harvard Law School. Here is a sampling of Commencement Day photos from the school’s extensive collection. Themes: Alumni Focus, Student Spotlights ‘We want to show students how to be entrepreneurs’ In a Harvard Law School reading group, entrepreneurs and legal operation specialists are sharing a road map for using technology to change the legal profession. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Intellectual Property Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Association for Law and Business, Harvard Journal of Law and Technology Ketanji Brown Jackson ’96 confirmed as U.S. Supreme Court justice Ketanji Brown Jackson, a 1996 graduate of Harvard Law School, was confirmed today as the 116th justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. With the Senate’s confirmation, Jackson will become first Black female justice in the Court’s 233-year history. Themes: Alumni Focus ‘There’s just no experience that replaces asking people for their vote’ The Harvard Law School Democrats recently hosted a Q&A with White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain ’87. who answered students’ questions on the administration’s agenda on voting rights, student loan debt, global vaccine inequities, the war in Ukraine, and other hot topics. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: National and International Security, Public Policy, Public Service Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Law School Democrats Eric Tong-Sheng Wu LL.M. ’77 S.J.D. ’91 awarded Taiwanese Cultural Collaboration Medal Eric Tong-Sheng Wu LL.M. ’77 S.J.D. ’91, a Taiwanese business executive, legislator, and philanthropist, has received the inaugural Taiwanese Cultural Collaboration Medal from the Republic of China’s Ministry of Culture. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: International Former secretary of housing and urban development Julián Castro named Klinsky Professor of Practice for Leadership and Progress Former San Antonio mayor and HUD secretary Julián Castro ’00 was named the Klinsky Professor of Practice for Leadership and Progress. He will teach a course next fall on leadership in urban communities. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: Housing Law, Local Government Law, Public Policy, Public Service Containing Russian aggression: Lessons from the Cold War 75 years later, the Truman Doctrine is as relevant as ever, says former diplomat and World Bank President Robert Zoellick. Themes: Alumni Focus Loop navigation Page 1 of 98 First Previous 1 2 3 … 98 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.