Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Information for Journalists The Office of Communications provides a range of services for journalists; we try to accommodate these requests as much as possible. Faculty Experts To learn more about Harvard Law School’s faculty experts, visit the faculty page. The Office of Communications fields requests from the media for interviews with members of the Harvard Law School faculty. To request an interview with one of Harvard Law School’s faculty experts, please contact the HLS Public Information Officer. Official Comment or General Inquiries To seek official comment from the Law School, or for other general inquiries, please ed-mail the HLS Public Information Officer. HLS Images To request professional-quality photos depicting current Harvard Law School faculty, student life, or campus buildings, from our extensive collection, please email your request to photo@lists.law.harvard.edu; include your deadline, the type(s) of images you need, and information about where the images will be used. For historical images, please contact Historical & Special Collections at the Harvard Law School Library,  (617) 495-4550 or specialc@law.harvard.edu. Permission to Photograph or Record Audio/Video on Campus Non-Harvard Law School affiliates must receive permission from the HLS Office of Communications before taking photos or recording audio/video on campus. This allows us to alert all applicable personnel, including Campus Police and Media Services, which will help ensure a smooth experience for all involved. To request permission, journalists and other non-Harvard Law School affiliates who wish to take photos or recordings on campus should submit the Harvard Law School Campus Photography/Recording Permission Request at least 24 hours before arriving on campus. Please contact us at photo@lists.law.harvard.edu for assistance with photography on campus, or e-mail the Public Information Officer with questions about audio/video recording. Please note these restrictions for photography/recording on the HLS campus: Students may not be photographed or filmed for any reason without express permission from the HLS Communications Office. For audio/video recording, we require signatures on Recording License Agreements (below) from each student, staff member and faculty member being filmed or recorded. The inside of buildings may not be photographed or filmed without express permission from the HLS Communications Office. Filming the exterior of buildings is permissible, as long as there is no disruption to the campus and no students are filmed without permission. Photographers and film crews should always notify the Office of Communications in advance by submitting the Harvard Law School Campus Photography/Recording Permission Request. The HLS Communications Office reserves the right to review photographs or recorded material prior to its publication and we reserve the right to use the media for our own promotional purposes on our web site or via other channels. All photography and recordings should be completed in a timely and unobtrusive manner, without disruption to the academic environment. Recording License Agreements Please ensure that anyone who will appear on the video or audio recording submits the following form prior to the event. Signed PDF versions of this form should be returned to the HLS Office of Communications. Recording License Agreement (web version) Recording License Agreement (PDF version) Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.