Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Teaching & Learning News from classrooms, clinics and campus ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ On Commencement Day, Harvard Law Today caught up with some family members of graduates to hear what the day means to them. Themes: Teaching & Learning Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ On Commencement Day, Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning ’85 urged the 833 graduating students of the Class of 2022 to use their power as Harvard lawyers to “to make our world better.” Themes: Teaching & Learning ‘Comfort is overrated’ Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch ’84 implores the class of 2022 to be ‘the change we have been waiting for.’ Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Administrative Law, Civil Rights, Criminal, Public Policy ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ The Class of 2022 made Professor Jon Hanson a four-time winner of the Sacks-Freund Award for Teaching Excellence at Class Day. The award recognizes teaching ability, attentiveness to student concerns and general contributions to student life. Themes: Teaching & Learning ‘Beware the urge to chase after other people’s dreams’ Kristi Jobson ’12, the assistant dean for admissions and chief admissions officer, received the Suzanne L. Richardson Staff Appreciation Award during Harvard Law School’s Class Day ceremony on May 25. Themes: Teaching & Learning Harvard Law School professors call potential abortion rights rollback ‘unprecedented’ The Petrie-Flom Center hosted ‘Roe in limbo: A town hall on the leaked Dobbs opinion.’ Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Constitutional, Ethics, Health Law & Policy, Legal History, Science & Technology On the bookshelf This spring, the Harvard Law School Library’s ongoing book talk series featured books by Tomiko Brown-Nagin, Joseph D. Kearney ’89 and Thomas W. Merrill, Anna Lvovsky, Mark Tushnet, and a volume co-edited by Michael Ashley Stein ’88. Themes: Teaching & Learning Staying rooted while branching out Stephen Ball ’10, Harvard Law’s new Dean of Students, encourages students to ‘take the time to learn the craft,’ ‘build lasting relationships,’ and ‘take risks.’ Themes: Teaching & Learning Spring to campus From Hastings to Hauser, pops of green and red leaves, and white, yellow and pink blossoms paint Harvard Law’s campus with true signs of spring. Themes: Teaching & Learning LGBTI communities from around the world affirm their right to health At a recent public consultation, the U.N. Independent Expert on sexual orientation and gender identity Victor Madrigal-Borloz, a senior visiting researcher at Harvard Law School’s Human Rights Program, gathered testimonies on the well-being of LGBTI communities around the world. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Family, Gender & Children, International, Public Service Loop navigation Page 1 of 132 First Previous 1 2 3 … 132 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.