Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech School of Law Ranks 12th in Job Placement Report Allen Ramsey May 11, 2022 The School of Law finished in elite company in the 2021 jobs rankings. Texas Tech University's School of Law ranks among the top law schools in the country when it comes to placing Juris Doctorate graduates. According to data released by the American Bar Association (ABA) and complied by Reuters, Texas Tech's law school ranks No. 12 in the country for the percentage of 2021 Juris Doctorate graduates hired into full-time, long-term, bar passage-required positions. “We are proud to be recognized as a top school for employment,” said Jack Wade Nowlin, the W. Frank Newton Professor of Law and dean of the law school. “We offer an exceptional legal education along with excellent career support and bar prep resources. Our students' hard work and practical training pays off with high-quality jobs.” Texas Tech is joined in the top 20 schools on the list by 10 of U.S. News and World Report's “T-14”, the 14 law schools traditionally ranked as the best in the nation, and is the only law school in Texas to earn a top-15 ranking. While the majority of Texas Tech law school graduates stayed in Texas to begin their legal careers, 20% joined organizations across the country. “Our class of 2021 was ready and eager, demonstrating their resilience after as much as half of their legal education was satisfied in virtual or hybrid settings,” said Paula Smith, the law school's assistant dean for career and professional development. “They also demonstrated a sense of urgency in finding a long-term setting. Ninety percent of this class accepted positions before the release of bar results and 95% were employed by the end of 2021. This is much earlier than in previous years.” A strong post-pandemic legal job market helped boost the placement numbers for Texas Tech law school graduates. A backlog of cases due to health precautions led to a robust market for legal-field hires as courthouses re-opened in both large metropolitan areas and smaller communities. The law school's Career & Professional Development Center proved to be a vital asset in helping graduates find careers. By using well-established relationships with employers who rely on Texas Tech's well-educated, practice-ready graduates and helping connect students with those employers, the Career Center provided a conduit for hiring. “Students received the news of important developments in the job market with enthusiasm and trust in the Career Center,” Smith said. “They took action to advance their individual career launch strategies, electing to apply earlier and with more confidence than other classes.” Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Achievements, School of Law, Stories, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Texas Tech School of Law <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Texas Tech School of Law is a leader among Texas law schools with a 16-year average pass rate of 90 percent on the State Bar Exam. A small student body, a diverse faculty and a low student-faculty ratio (15.3:1) promotes learning and encourages interaction between students and professors. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 11, 2022 10:31 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index