Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Leading Pharmaceutical Company Launches New Scholarship Program for Texas Tech Veterinary Students Weston Brooks November 12, 2021 Aurora Pharmaceuticals will provide $15,000 in scholarships to students of the School of Veterinary Medicine. The Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo (SVM) has received tremendous scholarship support for its inaugural class through various philanthropic efforts. Scholarships are essential in helping the school achieve its mission to provide access to world-class, affordable professional education. Scholarships enable student success and open the door to a professional career in very tangible ways. One donor who clearly understands the school's mission is Aurora Pharmaceutical Inc., headquartered in Northfield, Minnesota. After seeing Texas Tech University pursue and successfully develop a veterinary school, Aurora immediately jumped at the chance to be part of an extraordinary program by helping aid the next generation of veterinary students financially. Aurora launched its brand-new Texas Tech Inaugural Class Scholarship Program on Nov. 1, providing $15,000 in scholarships to SVM students in the inaugural class. Britt Conklin “When you start a new school, everything starts new, including scholarship resources,” said Britt Conklin, associate dean for clinical programs at the School of Veterinary Medicine. “We are thrilled Aurora was an early partner that understood our mission and is offering a program that will be transformational to the success of the school and the student recipients.” Aurora is offering four students each a $2,500 scholarship. Also, one student will receive an individual scholarship of $5,000. The deadline to apply is Jan. 14. Qualified applicants must be a first-year veterinary student at Texas Tech. Aurora will select recipients based on a combination of academic achievement, related work experience, community and university involvement, goals, essay and letters of reference. All applications will be judged by a committee of Aurora team members. “The costs associated with pursuing a degree in veterinary medicine can be daunting,” said Matt Klotz, equine technical service veterinarian at Aurora Pharmaceutical. “I am thrilled that Aurora has made the decision to support this group of students who are embarking in this program.” By creating this program, Aurora joins the SVM to make a difference in students' lives that will, in return, make a lasting impact on the profession of veterinary medicine. This program aids in the SVM's mission to serve the needs of rural and regional communities and provides access to affordable, world-class veterinary education. Program applications may be obtained by contacting scholarships@aurorapharmaceutical.com or by visiting AuroraPharmaceutical.com/scholarships About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE) and welcomed its first cohort of students in August. The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with a passion to serve rural and regional communities. Its curriculum focuses on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Research, Stories, Students, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:33 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index