Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Science & Tech Texas A&M Appoints Intercollegiate School Of Engineering Medicine Dean The school is expected to be the largest engineering-based medical degree program in the nation. By Texas A&M University Office of the Provost January 12, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Dr. Roderic Pettigrew Texas A&M Division of Marketing & Communications Texas A&M University today announced the appointment of Roderic I. Pettigrew, Ph.D., M.D. as the inaugural dean of the Intercollegiate School of Engineering Medicine. The new school expands efforts at Texas A&M University to train a new type of physician engineer, the “physicianeer,” who will be both a practicing physician and a trained engineer. The intercollegiate school is expected to be the largest engineering-based medical degree program in the nation and the only program that allows graduates to receive both a doctorate of medicine and master’s in engineering in four years, said Interim Provost and Executive Vice President Timothy P. Scott in an announcement to campus today. Pettigrew is a recipient of the 2020 Vannevar Bush Award bestowed by the U.S. President’s National Science Board, which “honors truly exceptional lifelong leaders in science and technology who have made substantial contributions to the welfare of the nation;” the 2019 National Academy of Engineering’s (NAE) Arthur M. Bueche Award for national and international leadership in science and technology and determining U.S. policy; and the inaugural Gold Medal of the Academy of Radiology Research. He is the Robert A. Welch Professor in the Texas A&M University College of Medicine and professor of biomedical engineering in the College of Engineering. Pettigrew is an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine, the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Inventors, and the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, and is a foreign member of the National Academy of Sciences, India. He previously served as CEO for engineering health for Texas A&M’s Health Science Center and College of Engineering and as executive dean for the Engineering Medicine (EnMed) collaboration between Texas A&M and Houston Methodist Hospital. He holds an adjunct professorship of nanomedicine at the Houston Methodist Academic Institute and was founding director of the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from 2002-17. He also served as acting chief officer for scientific workforce diversity for the National Institutes of Health from 2012-14. Pettigrew earned his bachelor’s degree in physics from Morehouse College and a master’s degree in nuclear science and engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He earned a Ph.D. in applied radiation physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.D. from the University of Miami Medical School. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Related Stories Campus Life Texas A&M To Establish Intercollegiate School Of Engineering Medicine EnMed leads the world in training “physicianeers” as medical inventors by offering medical doctorates and master’s degrees in engineering simultaneously. Health & Environment Texas A&M Medical Researcher Confronts Societal Ills That Science Can’t Solve Roderic Pettigrew’s vision includes developing scientists to innovate solutions to some of humanity’s most profound medical problems. Health & Environment Texas A&M’s Roderic Pettigrew Announced As Vannevar Bush Award Winner Pettigrew, an innovator in biomedicine and technology, is the 2020 recipient of the award honoring those who have made exceptional contributions to the nation's welfare through public service in science and technology. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Comment Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top