Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Family, Gender & Children Brianna Banks named winner of Stuntz Memorial Award This year, Brianna Banks was named the 2022 winner of the William J. Stuntz Memorial Award for Justice, Human Dignity, and Compassion, which recognizes a graduating student who has demonstrated an exemplary commitment to the principles of justice, human dignity, and compassion while at Harvard Law School. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Civil Rights, Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Women's Law Association, Harvard Black Law Students Association LGBTI communities from around the world affirm their right to health At a recent public consultation, the U.N. Independent Expert on sexual orientation and gender identity Victor Madrigal-Borloz, a senior visiting researcher at Harvard Law School’s Human Rights Program, gathered testimonies on the well-being of LGBTI communities around the world. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Family, Gender & Children, International, Public Service Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Across major news outlets, Harvard Law scholars weighed in on the implications —for the Court and country — of a leaked draft of a majority Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Legal History, Local Government Law Training future women presidents of Africa With the Women Heads of State Initiative virtual summit, Teresa Clarke J.D. ’87/M.B.A. ’88 and Professor Ruth Okediji LL.M. ’91 S.J.D. ’96 brought together four female African heads of state to explore opportunities for the continent’s future advancement. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International, Legal History, Public Policy Harvard Representation Initiative supports members of the Harvard community affected by the crisis in Ukraine The Harvard Representation Initiative is supporting some Ukranian members of the Harvard community by providing immigration legal representation and social work support, offering options to keep them and their families safe. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International Current electric vehicles subsidies fail to reduce overall emissions, says Harvard Law study Subsidies offered by the federal government for the purchase of new electric vehicles (EVs) may actually increase total greenhouse gas emissions without similar aid for secondhand buyers, concludes a new study led by Ashley Nunes, Ph.D., a fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Environmental, Family, Gender & Children, Science & Technology Limiting lessons Alexander Chen of Harvard Law’s LGBTQ+ Advocacy Clinic says Florida’s Parental Rights in Education bill likely will face First Amendment and Equal Protection Clause challenges. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Family, Gender & Children Digital Treasury accounts would expand banking access for financially vulnerable In recent paper, Howell Jackson and Timothy Massad propose that the U.S. Treasury Department implement a new mechanism to improve financial services for financially vulnerable households and expedite delivery of government benefits. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Business, Family, Gender & Children, Fiduciary Law, Public Policy Cravath Fellows explore international, foreign, and comparative law abroad During Winter Term, Cravath International Fellows pursued independent clinical placements or research projects, exploring legal frameworks and practices in six countries. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Comparative Law, Constitutional, Family, Gender & Children, Housing Law, Human Rights, International Rescuing MLK and his Children’s Crusade In “Civil Rights Queen: Constance Baker Motley and the Struggle for Equality,” Harvard Law Professor Tomiko Brown-Nagin traces the tactics of the groundbreaking lawyer amid pivotal protests. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Criminal, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, Legal History Loop navigation Page 1 of 48 First Previous 1 2 3 … 48 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.