Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Business & Government Business & Government Elon Musk Won’t Have A Board To Watch Him When He Takes Twitter Private – Does That Matter? Texas A&M experts on corporate governance say Twitter will soon be without the benefits – and problems – of a public board of directors. April 26, 2022 Business & Government Former UK Prime Minister David Cameron Urges Support For Ukraine, Says Putin Has ‘Already Lost’ In a talk hosted by the MSC Wiley Lecture Series, Cameron discussed the war in Ukraine and the United Kingdom's relationship with the U.S. April 2, 2022 Business & Government Ketanji Brown Jackson: A Change In The Supreme Court A Texas A&M expert breaks down how Jackson’s unique experience as a public defender and a Black woman may shape the future of the nation’s highest court. April 1, 2022 Business & Government What The Biden Administration’s Executive Order Means For The Crypto Industry A Texas A&M finance professor gives a look at the cryptocurrency landscape and explains what the executive order could signal for the industry's future. March 31, 2022 Business & Government Aggie PITCH Awards McFerrin Cup, More Than $35,000 In Prizes Twenty Aggie-led startups competed in the only university-wide business plan pitch competition. March 11, 2022 Business & Government How Will Biden’s Nominee Change The Supreme Court? While Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson would be unlikely to shift the court ideologically, a Texas A&M expert says appointing the first Black woman to the nation's highest court would have great significance. February 25, 2022 Business & Government The Avocado Ban Underscores The Need For A Strong Bilateral Supply Chain, Experts Say The ban on avocado imports from Mexico has lifted — heading off a potential shortage, price hikes and other disruptions. February 22, 2022 Business & Government Is Now The Right Time To Buy A House? Texas A&M Expert Says ‘Be Patient’ A research economist at Texas A&M says housing supply has been lagging since before the pandemic while demand has grown, causing home prices to surge. January 7, 2022 Business & Government What Consumers Can Expect In The Global Supply Chain A Texas A&M logistics expert is optimistic about 2022 recovery. January 7, 2022 Business & Government Redistricting, Explained A Texas A&M expert of state and local politics explains how the state's newly-drawn political maps – which are being challenged by the U.S. Department of Justice – will shape the next decade of Texas politics. December 17, 2021 First page Previous Page page 1 page 2 page … page 46 Next Page Last page Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top