Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today School of Veterinary Medicine Scholar Awarded Grant to Improve Spanish Competency Among Animal Health Professionals Weston Brooks May 27, 2021 Arlene Garcia-Marquez was awarded the $750,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture. Communication between veterinarians and animal caregivers is essential when it comes to ensuring instructions are not only understood but also carried out properly. In many situations, those animal caregivers speak little to no English at all. The Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine (SVM) is tackling this challenge head-on through a grant designed to specifically improve Spanish competency among animal-health professionals, and improve their ability to effectively communicate with animal caregivers across the diverse communities the SVM serves. Arlene Garcia-Marquez, an assistant professor of Behavior and Welfare at the SVM, was awarded a $750,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). Garcia-Marquez's project is titled “Developing Spanish Communicative Competence among Veterinary and Animal Science Students to Improve U.S. Agriculture.” It strategically responds to challenges veterinarians and animal science professionals face to effectively communicate with non-English speaking animal caretakers. Ineffective communication can result in negative effects on animal behavior, welfare and food safety. View of construction as of May 27, 2021 Related story: Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Set to Welcome First Class of Students The grant was awarded by the Capacity Building Grants for Non-Land-Grant Colleges of Agriculture Program, which is part of the USDA-NIFA. Joining Garcia-Marquez on the project at Texas Tech are Dean Guy Loneragan and Assistant Professor Alexandra Calle from the SVM as well as Associate Professor Amy Boren-Alpizar from the Department of Agricultural Education & Communication in the College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources (CASNR), and Jorge Zamora, an associate professor in the Department of Classical & Modern Languages & Literatures in the College of Arts & Sciences. “My team and I couldn't be more excited to receive funding for this topic that is so critical for sustainable agriculture,” Garcia-Marquez said. “We have worked really hard in developing a proposal that will now allow us to better prepare our future veterinarians and animal science professionals.” For the project, Garcia-Marquez also has teamed up with researchers from North Carolina State University, Tarleton State University, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico and the University of Zulia in Venezuela in developing and implementing three courses of Spanish for Specific Purposes in Agriculture into the current veterinary medicine and animal science curricula at the SVM and CASNR. They will use innovative teaching methods, such as experiential learning activities, to enhance students' abilities to communicate effectively with the diverse population of animal caregivers. “Our school's mission can be distilled to service to rural and regional communities,” said Loneragan. “For many animal caregivers in the communities we serve, Spanish is a preferred language. And it is more than simply speaking Spanish. It is also understanding the various and diverse cultures. This transformative project will help build Spanish and cultural competency, and enable us to excel at our mission. “We set out to recruit and hire the best faculty. Dr. Garcia is truly outstanding and we are so excited that she is part of our team. She has worked hard for this grant and demonstrated exceptional grit. She is contributing to our School in so many ways. Importantly, she is developing new ways for us to build competency and engage in a diverse world.” Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, College of Arts and Sciences, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources is made up of six departments: Agriculture and Applied Economics Agricultural Education and Communications Animal and Food Science Landscape Architecture Plant and Soil Science Natural Resources Management Twitter Facebook YouTube College of Arts & Sciences <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Texas Tech University College of Arts & Sciences was founded in 1925 as one of the university's four original colleges. Comprised of 16 departments and more than 400 tenured faculty members, the College offers a wide variety of courses and programs in the humanities, social and behavioral sciences, mathematics and natural sciences. Students can choose from 41 bachelor's degree programs, 34 master's degrees and 14 doctoral programs. With just under 11,000 students enrolled, the College of Arts & Sciences is the largest college on the Texas Tech University campus. In fall 2016, the college embarked upon its first capital campaign, Unmasking Innovation: The Campaign for Arts & Sciences. It focuses on five critical areas of need: attracting and retaining top faculty, enhancing infrastructure, recruiting high-potential students, undergraduate research and growing the Dean's Fund for Excellence. Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 2, 2022 7:58 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index