Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Is 2020 The Year For Un-Happy Holidays? It Doesn't Have To Be Glenys Young November 24, 2020 Set realistic expectations and connect with loved ones, says one Texas Tech expert. I've grown a little leaner, grown a little colder, grown a little sadder, grown a little older, and I need a little angel sitting on my shoulder – need a little Christmas now. We need a little music, need a little laughter, need a little singing, ringing through the rafter, and we need a little snappy happy ever after – need a little Christmas now. These lyrics from Johnny Mathis' classic, "We Need a Little Christmas," are felt keenly by many people this year, regardless of what holiday they celebrate and the fact that Thanksgiving is still to come. It's a phenomenon being seen nationwide: people who have been dealing with the coronavirus pandemic for most of this year are ready for a break from anxiety and stress, so they've started the holidays early hoping for some joy and normalcy. Christy Rogers But this year's holidays will undoubtedly feel different, says Christy Rogers, an assistant professor in Texas Tech University's Department of Human Development and Family Sciences who specializes in familial relations and support. That difference could be problematic in its own right. "When an individual's expectations and thoughts do not match up with the realistic nature of an event, they experience cognitive dissonance, a state that can cause considerable discomfort and psychological stress," she said. While there may be no place like home for the holidays, that's the situation millions of Americans – and millions more in other nations around the world – find themselves in because of the disease-transmission risk inherent in group celebrations. "Not being able to gather with family members may be difficult for people this holiday season for a few reasons," Rogers said. "First, given that many people have holiday traditions with their families, these unmet expectations may cause individuals distress. Second, being apart from family members during the holidays may lead individuals to feeling disconnected from their loved ones, which can cause feeling lonely, and in some cases, depressed." But that's not to say we're all in for a blue Christmas this year. In reality, Rogers said, it will be what we make of it. "The holidays will definitely feel different this year," she said. "However, people will likely experience it differently depending on how they cope with stress and how well they adapt to new situations. Find a way to connect with loved ones, even if it can't be in person. "Some people may feel less thankful and spirited during the holidays if they emotionally isolate themselves from everyone. However, some people may feel even more thankful and spirited through reflection of what they are grateful for and by thinking of creative ways to connect with their families." That connection, she emphasized, is key to having a happy Thanksgiving, Hanukkah, Kwanzaa or a holly jolly Christmas. "People need people," Rogers said. "Whether we connect in-person, through phone calls, text messages or Zoom calls, or co-experience movies or videos games together, humans need to feel closeness with others to maintain their well-being. People can support one another this holiday season by reaching out to their loved ones and being creative to recreate family rituals. "Don't assume that your introverted friends prefer to be left alone or that your outgoing brother or sister will be fine. Make an effort to show your loved ones that you care, because we all need that love and compassion now more than ever." Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: COVID-19, Experts, Faculty, Stories, college of human sciences Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Department of Human Development and Family Sciences The Department of Human Development and Family Sciences offers a wide range of courses and degrees in the areas of early childhood, human development, interpersonal relations and family sciences. Bachelor of Science in Human Development & Family Studies Bachelor of Science Human Development & Family Studies with teacher certification Master of Science Human Development & Family Studies Ph.D. in Human Development & Family Studies Twitter Facebook College of Human Sciences <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The College of Human Sciences at Texas Tech University provides multidisciplinary education, research and service focused on individuals, families and their environments for the purpose of improving and enhancing the human condition. The college offers degrees in: Apparel Design and Manufacturing Community, Family, and Addiction Sciences Early Childhood Family and Consumer Sciences Education Human Development and Family Sciences Human Sciences Interior Design Nutritional Sciences Personal Financial Planning Pre-Professional Health Careers Restaurant, Hotel, and Institutional Management Retail Management The college also offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees. Twitter Facebook Linked In Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:20 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index