Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Featured News Harvard Law School celebrates the Class of 2022 A call to public service Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Faith in the Law Four HLS programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and law Continue Reading » » @HarvardLaw Connect with HLSMy Tweets Latest from Instagram harvardlaw Through excellence & leadership in legal education & scholarship, HLS is dedicated to advancing the cause of justice all over the world. “You have got to be willing to take … risks, b Load More... Follow on Instagram News @ LawMore Headlines Escalation of the Supreme Court’s leak probe puts clerks in a ‘no-win’ situation Read at CNN Mayor Wu announces new citywide composting program Read at The Boston Globe A Conservative Lawyer’s New Target After Abortion: Affirmative Action Read at The New York Times Legal Experts React to Report That SCOTUS Clerks Are Being Asked to Sign Affidavits, Provide Cell Phone Records in Leak Probe Read at Law and Crime How Biden Has Made Policy With Short-Term, Costly Rules: Charts Read at Bloomberg Law Trump Indictment Predicted in Georgia By Legal Expert: ‘Charges Will Stick’ Read at Newsweek Tech experts urge Washington to resist crypto industry’s influence Read at Financial Times A Supreme Court justice’s solution to gun violence: Repeal Second Amendment Read at The Washington Post The Breaking Point Is Here—Again Read at Wired Seizing Russian Assets to Help Ukraine Sets Off White House Debate Read at The New York Times How a court decision overturning abortion could affect IVF Read at Reuters High Court Clerks Facing New Scrutiny In Leak Probe Read at Law360 This Change Could Ease Filing Burden, Retiring Tax Prof. Says Read at Law360 Insurers and employers in Mass. scramble to keep out-of-state workers covered for abortion Read at The Boston Globe Jan. 6 committee eyes witnesses, but Ginni Thomas unlikely to be focus Read at The Washington Post Subscribe to News@Law Recent Highlights Read All » ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Harvard Law Today spoke to a few staff members who made the Commencement Day possible to find out how they support Commencement, what preparing for a triple graduation takes, and why this is one of the most special days of the year. Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Harvard Law’s newest alumni share what they've been up to since they graduated, and offer a few words of advice for the Class of 2022. Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ On Commencement Day, Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning ’85 urged the 833 graduating students of the Class of 2022 to use their power as Harvard lawyers to “to make our world better." ‘Comfort is overrated’ Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch ’84 implores the class of 2022 to be ‘the change we have been waiting for.’ Highlights of Commencement 2022 A look at HLS Commencement, from dawn 'til dusk. Reflections of the Class of 2022 Graduating J.D.s and LL.M.s reflect on their law school experience and share their hopes for the future. ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ The Class of 2022 made Professor Jon Hanson a four-time winner of the Sacks-Freund Award for Teaching Excellence at Class Day. The award recognizes teaching ability, attentiveness to student concerns and general contributions to student life. Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Michelle Wu, mayor of Boston and Harvard University's 2022 Class Day speaker, urged graduates to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto of veritas Wednesday at Tercentenary Theatre. Gallery: Harvard Law School Class Day 2022 The Class of 2022 celebrated Class Day outdoors with friends and family, faculty and staff, and special guests. ‘Beware the urge to chase after other people’s dreams’ Kristi Jobson ’12, the assistant dean for admissions and chief admissions officer, received the Suzanne L. Richardson Staff Appreciation Award during Harvard Law School’s Class Day ceremony on May 25. Students from the Class of 2022 honored Each year, a selection of Harvard Law students from the graduating class are recognized for their outstanding leadership, citizenship, compassion, and dedication to their studies and the profession. Lives Lived See All » In Memoriam: Robert B. Haas ’72: 1947-2021 October 12, 2021 Robert “Bobby” Haas ’72, a lawyer who made his fortune in private equity, became an aerial photographer for National Geographic, capturing the beauty of the world from above, and a motorcycle aficionado, exploring new pathways below. Continue Reading Remembering Naomi Ronen: 1937-2021 September 21, 2021 When she retired in 2006, a plaque was put up in the library in Naomi Ronen’s honor. It hangs by the reference area today, a rare tribute, memorializing someone former colleagues and patrons remember as exceptional. Continue Reading Frederica Brenneman ’53: A trailblazer at HLS and in the field of juvenile justice April 2, 2021 Frederica Brenneman ’53, a member of the first Harvard Law School class to include women, went on to a long career in the Connecticut judiciary focused on child welfare. She was the inspiration for the television show “Judging Amy.” Continue Reading Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.