Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Teaching & Learning Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 Credit: Martha Stewart Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning ’85 urged the 833 graduating J.D., LL.M, and S.J.D. students gathered on Holmes field Thursday to use their power as Harvard lawyers “to make our world better, more compassionate, more equal, more just, more ethical, and more united.” “I sometimes wonder if it is possible to know, in real time, that we’re part of a historic moment – or that a particular class is a historic class,” said Manning, the Morgan and Helen Chu Dean and Professor of Law. “For the Class of 2022, there is no doubt. This is a class forged by a cruel pandemic that has claimed millions of lives worldwide and remains untamed to this day. You experienced law school very differently from those who came before you and, I hope, very differently from those who will come after.” You, the Class of 2022, plunged headlong into the crises our world has served up. … You showed up to defend the marginalized, the vulnerable, those who would not otherwise have been able to have a lawyer, and who needed someone on their side to ensure that they received justice. Given that experience, Manning told the graduates, “you have shown yourself, and the world, that you are people of exceptional grit, resolve, purpose, empathy, and generosity. It is who you are; it is what got you here in the first place; and it is what will make you great lawyers and leaders in the years ahead.” Even with all of the headwinds and obstacles, he stressed, the new graduates had continued to learn, to build community, and to serve others, logging more than 378,000 total hours of pro bono work during their time in law school. “You, the Class of 2022, plunged headlong into the crises our world has served up. … You showed up to defend the marginalized, the vulnerable, those who would not otherwise have been able to have a lawyer, and who needed someone on their side to ensure that they received justice.” In addition to the coronavirus, Manning noted that the Class of 2022 had gone to law school during a period of numerous other cataclysms, ranging from the murder of George Floyd two years earlier to the January 6, 2021, assault on the Capitol to Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine. “In just the past two weeks,” he added, “you’ve witnessed Buffalo, Laguna Woods, and now Uvalde. People killed shopping for food, practicing their faith. And now children learning in school.” “Times like these can feel overwhelming,” Manning said. Drawing the idea of “making meaning” – a concept from the psychology of distress tolerance – Manning suggested “that when times are very bad, when things feel at their worst, you should try to bring about some sort of change, improvement, reform, repair – to try make something good come out of the bad things you’re dealing with.” Manning acknowledged that it “feels hard . . . to think of how to move forward in the face of tragedies so profound, so painful, and so raw,” but that “we must” if we are to make progress. And he urged the graduating class to use the tools and skills they have acquired at Harvard Law School “to help repair a world badly in need of repair.” Manning concluded on a note of encouragement, wishing the graduates well: “My wish for you, as you embark on this journey, is that you will take risks, that you will follow your heart’s desire, that you will be unafraid to fail and unashamed if you do, that you will speak up always for what you believe in, and that you will always carry with you the spirit and determination you brought to Harvard Law School.” People: John F. Manning Tags: Editor's Pick, Commencement 2022 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.