Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Campus Life Bush School DC Hosts First Graduation The teaching site's first classes began in January 2021. By Robyn Small, Texas A&M University Bush School of Government and Public Service May 23, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Texas A&M University’s Bush School of Government and Public Service hosted its first graduation celebration May 6 at its new Washington, D.C. teaching site known as the Bush School DC. The celebration was attended by graduate candidates, current and former students, and their families and friends, along with the Diana Davis Spencer Foundation CEO and President Abby Spencer Moffat and Founder Diana Davis Spencer. Funded through the support of the Diana Davis Spencer Foundation, Bush School DC began classes in January 2021 with a Master of International Policy graduate degree. Additionally, graduate degrees and certificate programs offered include the Master of National Security and Intelligence and the Certificate in Advanced International Affairs. Jay Silveria, executive director of the Bush School, kicked off the evening with personal remarks about the launch of the Bush School DC and its importance in providing an educational experience for graduate students preparing for leadership roles in public service. “Make no mistake, we’re going to change the world,” Silveria said. Roman Napoli, the 2020 Bush School Outstanding Alumnus, also addressed those in attendance, describing how the educational experience he received at the Bush School prepared him for his current role as Managing Director for Policy in the U.S. State Department’s Office of Foreign Assistance. After hearing pre-recorded remarks from the Bush School’s Dean Mark Welsh III and F. Gregory Gause III, head of the Bush School’s Department of International Affairs, students were recognized for their accomplishments with a certificate of completion and a commemorative, numbered coin featuring the image of former President George H.W. Bush, for whom the Bush School was named. Founded in 1997 on Texas A&M’s College Station campus under the 41st president’s philosophy that public service is a noble calling, the Bush School has since endeavored to carry on the late president’s legacy with curriculum, research and student experiences that are focused on public service. To learn more about the Bush School DC and its graduate degree programs, visit bush.tamu.edu/dc. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares This article by Robyn Small originally appeared on the Bush School of Government and Public Service website. Related Stories Campus Life Texas A&M Celebrates Bush School 25th Anniversary At New DC Location Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Texas Congressman Michael McCaul joined A&M and System officials to recognize 25 years of carrying the Bush legacy of public service. Business & Government Bush School D.C. Professor To Testify Before US House Foreign Affairs Committee Yuval Weber will speak about authoritarianism and kleptocracy in Russia. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Message Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top