Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Set to Welcome First Class of Students Weston Brooks April 9, 2021 The school also has attained Provisional Accreditation status from the American Veterinary Medical Association’s Council on Education. After months of reviewing hundreds of applicants and conducting in-depth interviews, the pioneering group of 60 students have secured their place in the very first class of the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine (SVM) in Amarillo. These students, from across rural and regional communities of Texas and New Mexico, will now call Amarillo home when they begin their veterinary education in August. In addition, the SVM reached a major milestone in its ongoing development when it was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation by the national accreditor, the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE). “We are so fortunate we will get to work with a truly amazing group of students,” said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. “Texas Tech has worked for years and years to get to this point, to finally meet and welcome our very first class. “It takes a team driven by a shared purpose to reach important milestones. Texas Tech, Amarillo, regional communities across Texas and our legislators are a wonderful team, and all get to share in the ownership and celebration of achieving the status of Provisional Accreditation. This is an amazing accomplishment for us all.” The School of Veterinary Medicine has hired a team of almost 50 people so far. This includes more than 30 talented faculty who are busy starting their research programs and preparing for the first class. Construction of the world-class facilities is on schedule. The SVM will welcome the first class in two state-of the-art buildings. One facility, Amarillo Campus, is the academic headquarters and is adjacent to the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center campus in Amarillo. Located about two miles northwest, the second facility, called Mariposa Station, is purpose-built for instruction in livestock veterinary medicine. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Stories, Veterinary School, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:25 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index