Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Ethics Harvard Law School professors call potential abortion rights rollback ‘unprecedented’ The Petrie-Flom Center hosted ‘Roe in limbo: A town hall on the leaked Dobbs opinion.’ Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Constitutional, Ethics, Health Law & Policy, Legal History, Science & Technology Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Across major news outlets, Harvard Law scholars weighed in on the implications —for the Court and country — of a leaked draft of a majority Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Legal History, Local Government Law Tackling issues at the intersection of technology, democracy, and human rights Susan Hendrickson ’93, the new executive director of the Berkman Klein Center, recently spoke with Harvard Law Today about her career path, her advice for law students, what keeps her up at night and why, nevertheless, she continues to be optimistic about tech. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Public Service, Science & Technology Algorithm nation A Harvard Law School reading group debates how the law should manage self-driving cars, A.I.-generated art, and other algorithmic technology. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Cyberlaw, Ethics, Science & Technology, Tort Law Combating corruption Professor Matthew Stephenson, an anticorruption law expert and founder of the Global Anticorruption Blog, explains the myriad ways corruption may play a role in Russia’s war in Ukraine. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Constitutional, Ethics, International, National and International Security In Memoriam: Alan Stone 1929–2022 Alan A. Stone, the Touroff- Glueck Professor of Law and Psychiatry Emeritus in the faculty of law and the faculty of medicine at Harvard, died Jan. 23. He was 92. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Civil Rights, Ethics Faculty Books in Brief: Winter 2022 A wide range of books by faculty, from a collection of essays on the ethics of consumer genetic testing to a look at the fate of constitutional institutions in populist regimes to a delightful children’s book by a legal philosopher. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Topics: Constitutional, Ethics, Health Law & Policy, Science & Technology ‘The algorithm has primacy over media … over each of us, and it controls what we do’ Social media’s business model of personalized virality is incompatible with democracy, agreed experts at a recent Harvard Law School discussion on the state of democracy. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Behavioral Economics, Business, Election Law, Ethics, Intellectual Property, Public Policy, Science & Technology Protecting the media to protect democracy At a Harvard Law School Library Book Talk, Martha Minow, along with Vicki Jackson and Nikolas Bowie, discussed why the press is in danger — and how to save it. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Constitutional, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Legal History, Public Policy Is it time to swipe left on social media? Leaked revelations about Instagram’s impact on teens have united Republicans and Democrats in considering legal reforms, say Harvard Law School scholars. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Cyberlaw, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Public Policy, Science & Technology Loop navigation Page 1 of 28 First Previous 1 2 3 … 28 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.