Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The University of Kansas Search form Search this site Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Menu Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Search Search form Search this site Home Don’t ignore deeper 'Plague Year' anniversary context, professor says Contact Rick Hellman KU News Service 785-864-8852 rick_hellman@ku.edu Don’t ignore deeper 'Plague Year' anniversary context, professor says Mon, 02/21/2022 LAWRENCE – As the third year of the COVID-19 pandemic coincides with the 300th anniversary of the publication of Daniel Defoe’s novel “A Journal of the Plague Year,” a University of Kansas professor of English who specializes in literature of that era said there are even stronger continuities between the book and our own time than were first apparent. Yes, Anna Neill said, foreshadowing our pandemic time, Defoe detailed the horror as the bubonic plague ravaged London, revealing its disparate impact according to social class, breaking supply chains and “providing opportunities for charlatans and scammers and people dealing in fake news about origins and treatment.” But Neill said there are other, unspoken connections between Defoe’s plague years and our own. She said that Defoe was a small child during the 1665-66 outbreak of plague in London and that his book was not published until 1722. So Defoe clearly relied on official records and the memories of others for his plot. “Why did he think this story about a 50-year-old catastrophe would sell? We have to think about what was going on in Britain at that time,” Neill said, “and that included all kinds of things that caused similar experiences of uncertainty and instability. There was the fear of an invasion to restore a Catholic monarch. But the one I think is really significant here is that, two years earlier, Britain and particularly London experienced what was known as the South Sea Bubble. That was a financial bubble involving the South Sea Company, which had been formed in 1711 for two reasons – one, to absorb the national debt, and two, to oversee the transportation of slaves to the Americas.” “This is the kind of thing we're all familiar with, right? People buying up shares, and then the bubble collapsing, in part due to insider trading. People lost their fortunes, and the nation risked becoming insolvent. And that, in turn, meant it might give the Catholic pretender to the throne a chance to come back to invade and really succeed. “So the fears that people experienced during that plague and that Defoe is writing about in ‘A Journal’ would seem very real to his readers — things like the collapse of livelihoods and the exposure to unscrupulous people who are profiting off of financial uncertainty and the credulity of others. So it seems likely to me that the bubble – and by association the British Atlantic slave trade — is the context in which he's writing.” Neill said, “One always needs to read the history of empire in text like this.” In this case, it's noteworthy that the narrator of “Plague Year,” known as H.F., is an entrepreneur who is implicated in the slave trade. “It is important to be aware that when we're reading a story and citing it as relevant for our COVID times, we should be thinking less about parallels than about the ways that the past has shaped and brought about our present moment,” Neill said. “When H.F. is describing the terrible suffering of plague victims, he's not talking about the suffering that's being inflicted on the bodies of Africans who have been captured and transported. “So there's a silence there that is as important as what is said, if not more important, and ignoring that history as we read ‘A Journal of the Plague Year’ is perpetuating that silence, notably in our COVID moment, which is manifest in global vaccine inequality. You could trace that back to the slave trade and to the impoverishment of regions of West Africa.” Image: The pest house and plague pit, Moorfields, London. Wood engraving. Credit: Wellcome Collection / Public Domain The University of Kansas is a major comprehensive research and teaching university. The university's mission is to lift students and society by educating leaders, building healthy communities and making discoveries that change the world. The KU News Service is the central public relations office for the Lawrence campus. kunews@ku.edu | 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Suite 37, Lawrence, KS 66045 Hometown news Graduation and honor rolls KU News Service podcast KU researchers share their expertise on today's most pressing topics, including COVID-19. Search all KU News Search All KU News Search options » Subscribe to KU Today KU in the news The Washington Post — Tue, 05/24/2022 Americans aren’t asking for transgender sports bans. So why pass them? The Economist — Mon, 05/23/2022 Politicians have long told the poor that they’re not doing poverty right “There are as many coaching cues as there are coaches, but there is a lack of scientific literature focused on exam… https://t.co/28dm2j2i0W «» Follow us on Twitter » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » KU Today Contact The University of Kansas 785-864-2700 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Foursquare Pintrest All social media at KU » Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Contacts CMS Login Giving Jobs Maps