Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Health & Environment Texas A&M University Nationally Recognized For Sustainability Research The school has been named a top performer in the 2021 Sustainable Campus Index. By Lesley Henton, Texas A&M University Division of Marketing & Communications November 9, 2021 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares The Department of Bioenvironmental Sciences’ vertical gardens. Sam Craft/Texas A&M Marketing & Communications Texas A&M University has been recognized as a top performer in the 2021 Sustainable Campus Index in the area of Research. A publication from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE), the Sustainable Campus Index recognizes top-performing sustainable colleges and universities overall and in 17 impact areas, as measured by the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS). Texas A&M achieved top performer status by scoring 100 percent in the Research category, including in the areas of research and scholarship; support for sustainability research; and open access to research. “With over 3,000 researchers at Texas A&M University studying a broad range of topics related to sustainability, it is gratifying that their leadership in solving global problems is acknowledged and recognized,” said Kelly Wellman, director of A&M’s Office of Sustainability. Texas A&M was rated in the Gold category by STARS, which included evaluation in areas such as academics, engagement and operations. “We are very proud of our scientists who conduct research on sustainability,” said Susan Ballabina, vice president for academic and strategic partnership at A&M. “Research in this area is critical in helping us fulfill our land-grant mission and is making a positive impact in our community, our state and beyond. It is exciting to see Texas A&M University receive recognition for this important work.” Texas A&M’s submission included projects from over half the university’s colleges across 61 academic departments. AASHE’s Executive Director Meghan Fay Zahniser said Texas A&M’s efforts reflect a commitment to sustainability on a global scale. “Upon reading the innovative and high-impact initiatives within this report, I’m encouraged that the global sustainability transformation that we desperately need is, in fact, happening,” she said. “Congratulations to Texas A&M University for their incredible sustainability accomplishments.” Texas A&M’s STARS report is available on the STARS website. About STARS The Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS) is a transparent, self-reporting framework for colleges and universities to measure their sustainability performance. STARS was developed by AASHE with broad participation from the higher education community. The credits included in STARS span the breadth of higher education sustainability and are organized into four categories: Academics, Engagement, Operations, and Planning & Administration. All reports are publicly accessible on the STARS website. For more information, visit stars.aashe.org. About AASHE AASHE empowers higher education administrators, faculty, staff and students to be effective change agents and drivers of sustainability innovation. AASHE enables members to translate information into action by offering essential resources and professional development to a diverse, engaged community of sustainability leaders. We work with and for higher education to ensure that our world’s future leaders are motivated and equipped to solve sustainability challenges. For more information, visit www.aashe.org. Follow AASHE on Facebook and Twitter. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Media contacts: Karen Bigley, Texas A&M Division of Finance & Operations, 979-845-4453, bigleyk@tamu.edu Andrea Huggins, AASHE; 888-347-9997 x 123, huggins@aashe.org Related Stories Health & Environment One Man’s Trash Texas A&M graduate Carl McAfee '90 is using polymer chemistry and recycled materials to make a sustainable impact. Health & Environment Making Pork Production More Efficient A Texas A&M AgriLife team aims to improve the sustainability index of the pork industry. Science & Tech Architecture Professor Finds Profitable Uses For Industrial Byproducts Ahmed K. Ali finds creative and attractive solutions to repurpose industrial waste. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Email Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top