Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Alumni Focus Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Speaking to Harvard Law’s Classes of 2020 and 2021, Elizabeth Warren offered advice and encouragement at a special in-person Commencement celebration By Rachel Reed/HLS News Staff, May 29, 2022 Credit: Martha Stewart Senator Elizabeth Warren (left) and Deputy Dean Elizabeth Papp Kamali “You have got to be willing to take … risks, because in taking the risk, you change yourself and you change the world around you,” said Elizabeth Warren, U.S. Senator for Massachusetts, at a Harvard Law School Commencement celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 today. Warren, who is also the Leo Gottlieb Professor of Law, Emerita at Harvard, was speaking with Elizabeth Papp Kamali, the Austin Wakeman Scott Professor of Law and deputy dean. Their conversation was part of a weekend-long series of on-campus events for returning graduates from the previous two years, whose in-person Commencement exercises had been postponed due to the COVID pandemic. Use your law degrees to “open your lens on the world, not narrow it,” Warren advised the 456 members of Harvard Law’s Class of 2020 and 318 members of the Class of 2021 who returned to Cambridge with their families and friends for the festivities. On Saturday, the graduates met up with old friends, attended reunions, and enjoyed a “Last Lecture” by Naz K. Modirzadeh ’02, professor of practice and Mark Wu, Henry L. Stimson Professor of Law. In the evening, they donned their finest outfits for a special Barristers’ Ball, complete with music, munchies, and mingling. Credit: Martha Stewart U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland ’77 spoke at the Harvard University morning Commencement exercises for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. They then rose with the sun to meet at Harvard Yard for the University exercises in Tercentenary Theatre, during which the featured speaker, U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland ’77, praised Harvard Law’s longstanding eviction defense program, and encouraged those in attendance to dedicate themselves to service. “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic — let it be defined by public service,” he said. ‘Be willing to say yes’ Back at Holmes Field, John F. Manning ’85, the Morgan and Helen Chu Dean and professor of law, welcomed the Classes of 2020 and 2021 back to campus and wished them a “heartfelt congratulations” for all they had achieved “even with all the headwinds you faced.” Dean Manning, who addressed the graduates virtually after testing positive for COVID, also introduced the conversation between Kamali and Warren. The pair discussed Warren’s life and law school experiences, the roles of activism and the rule of law, and her advice for the recent graduates. Credit: Martha Stewart Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning speaks virtually to the Classes of ’20 and ’21. “I grew up in an America that had a lot of constraints, and a lot of constraints particularly on little girls about what we could and couldn’t do,” began Warren. Her second grade teacher was her “pivot point,” she said — the person who convinced her that she could, and should, pursue her dreams. “You’ve already hit some pivot points in your life. Thank somebody who put you on the path,” she said, addressing the graduates. “And be that pivot point in someone else’s life.” Kamali, who said that she, like Warren, had begun law school with a young child, wondered how having a toddler affected her educational experience. “I always thought I had an advantage over my classmates who didn’t have children,” Warren replied. “Because for a couple of hours every day, no matter what exams, craziness, scary stuff that happens in law school, I was focused on something other than how I was doing.” “It made for a challenging 1L fall, I’ll put it that way,” agreed Kamali, speaking of her own experience. “I do think it’s the best time management strategy.” We are so torn apart politically that we stay with a status quo that is literally killing people we love,” she added. “I see this as a moment when it is the job of the lawyers to continue to put forward the alternatives. Turning to the role of law in society, Warren referenced the recent mass shootings in Uvalde, Texas and Buffalo, New York. “The question is not one of law,” she said of efforts to reduce gun violence. “It’s ‘what is our will together to make change?’” “We are so torn apart politically that we stay with a status quo that is literally killing people we love,” she added. “I see this as a moment when it is the job of the lawyers to continue to put forward the alternatives.” Warren pressed those who wanted to make change in any area to “organize, get in the fight, stay in the fight — and actually make it happen.” Kamali pointed out that it can be difficult to know how to talk to, and convince, those who might not agree with us. How did Warren work across differences? Bring issues down to their specifics, replied Warren. When speaking recently to someone who disagreed with her position on student debt relief, “I just reminded him of the challenges his own daughter faced trying to make it through,” she said. Finally, acknowledging the uniqueness of the weekend’s Commencement celebrations — and noting that many members of the Class of 2020 and 2021 are already one or two years into their legal careers — Kamali asked Warren to speak to the significance of law school on her life and career. “Law degrees are like the coolest thing on earth,” she said. “And I’m convinced they’re the coolest thing because they change how you think or see the world” in many positive ways. They also open up doors, ones “you have to be willing to say yes to,” she said. And don’t be afraid of failure, she added. “I ran for president, and — spoiler alert — I lost,” she said. “Knowing what I know now, I am 100% happy that I ran for president” because “I got to talk about stuff I care about every single day.” Above all, she urged, do not feel locked into one particular career path. “Life is way too short to spend it doing things that you don’t love,” she said. “Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul.” People: John F. Manning, Elizabeth Warren, Elizabeth Papp Kamali Tags: Editor's Pick, Commencement 20 and 21 Further Reading: Commencement, redux Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Reflections of the Class of 2021 Reflections of the Class of 2020 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.