Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law Bulletin - Winter 2022 Table of Contents Features Faith in the Law Four distinct programs pursue research and address current topics linked to the intersection of religion and law Continue Reading Maverick in the Middle Randall Kennedy seeks nuance in an age of absolutism Continue Reading Departments Inside HLS: News and Views From Campus Alumni Notes & Newsmakers Writ Large: Faculty Books Letters From the Dean Gallery In Memoriam Class Notes Browse Issue → Submit A Class Note Submit A Letter Submit an Obituary Contact Us Bulletin Archives Download PDF Faith in the Law Four HLS programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and law Credit: Anthony Russo Four distinct programs pursue research and address current topics linked to the intersection of religion and law Continue Reading Continue Reading » Spotlight Maverick in the Middle Randall Kennedy seeks nuance in an age of absolutism Randall Kennedy seeks nuance in an age of absolutism Continue Reading Continue Reading » Writ Large Bad News Martha Minow contends that the current digital media environment is responsible for a crisis that should be addressed through government action With the rise of social media and the decline of traditional news outlets, especially local news, “constitutional democracy itself is in the balance,” writes Minow in her new book. Continue Reading Preserve, Protect, and Defend In his new book, Noah Feldman reveals Lincoln’s role in breaking — and remaking — the U.S. Constitution In his new book, Noah Feldman offers a fresh perspective on the decisions Abraham Lincoln made regarding the U.S. Constitution — many of which he describes as legally indefensible. Continue Reading Faculty Books in Brief: Winter 2022 A wide range of books by faculty, from a collection of essays on the ethics of consumer genetic testing to a look at the fate of constitutional institutions in populist regimes to a delightful children's book by a legal philosopher. Continue Reading See All » Inside HLS The Crypto of the Realm ‘Life Can Change at the Snap of a Finger’ Reassessing Psychedelics Building for the Future Letter from the Dean John F. Manning '85 Looking to the Future I am grateful to students, staff, and faculty for their adaptability, resilience, and hard work, and to you, our alumni, for your unflagging support as we have navigated this shape-shifting pandemic. Like so many around the world in this moment, people here at HLS are tired; we have pushed this boulder up the hill again and again, with the hill a little different each time. And yet there has been something invigorating about the way our community has pulled together to fulfill our Law School’s important mission, even in hard times. It has been vital, throughout these challenging times, to keep a steady focus on the future and on the ways this Law School can best contribute, and best prepare our students to contribute, to a world that badly needs great lawyers to advance truth, law, and justice — the ideals that emblazon our new shield and inspire our work together. Continue Reading Alumni Notes and Newsmakers Race and Place Caste is alive and well in the United States — and it starts with the very neighborhoods we call home. That’s the uncomfortable truth Sheryll Cashin asks us to confront in her new book. To Infinity and Beyond Since 2007, Gabriel Swiney has served in the State Department’s Office of the Legal Adviser. His work in space law, he says, has allowed him to merge his experience and his passion to help future generations chart a safer, fairer path to the stars. Home Court “There aren’t a lot of jobs where your only job is to figure out what the law is and apply it to the facts without anybody from the outside pressuring you to take a certain position or view it in a certain way,” says Jonathan Papik. A Position of Authority In his book “The Authority of the Court and the Peril of Politics,” Justice Stephen Breyer explored how the Court can continue to maintain its vital role as a check on the rest of the government. HLS Authors: Selected Alumni Books Winter 2022 When Tibor Várady began looking through more than 100 years of files of his family’s law firm in a Serbian city in Eastern Europe, he found not only client information. He uncovered a history of the people of the region during world wars and under control of multiple states. Class Notes Sampler Class Notes Send in your class notes and learn how to access all class notes in Amicus. See All » For the Love of Jazz January 31, 2022 Allan Berland ’63, a retired lawyer, produces classic jazz radio program. Continue Reading A World of Choices January 31, 2022 Anna Spain Bradley ’04 writes on the process of decision-making in international law. Continue Reading To Pittsburgh with Love January 31, 2022 Ken Gormley ’80, president of Duquesne University, writes his first novel. Continue Reading Gallery Portraits in Leadership From the late 1800s to today, artists have created portraits of Harvard Law School's deans — a visual history of the school's leaders From the late 1800s to today artists have created portraits of Harvard Law School's deans, preserving a visual history of the school's leaders. Continue Reading Continue Reading » Lives Lost In Memoriam: Lani Guinier 1950 – 2022 In Memoriam: Lloyd L. Weinreb: 1936–2021 In Memoriam: Philip B. Heymann 1932 – 2021 In Memoriam: Jerome Rappaport: 1927 – 2021 Letters Be careful what you wish for Robert Kantowitz ’79 Lawrence, New York I have several comments on Lincoln Caplan’s article on whether the press can be held liable for publishing material obtained illegally (“The Pentagon Papers Case Today,” Summer issue). True, as Caplan points out, under current law, the press cannot be punished for publishing information that comes into its possession even if that information was obtained […] Continue Reading The missing question Andrew R. Kislik ’79 Menlo Park, California It is unfortunate that Elaine McArdle, in her cover article entitled “Oh, What a Tangled Web We Weave,” failed to ask the crucial question, “How do we determine what is ‘disinformation’?” As a 1979 HLS graduate privileged to have learned constitutional law from Laurence Tribe ’66, alongside (now Chief Justice) John Roberts ’79, I cherish […] Continue Reading A privilege to serve the nation in their company Scott W. Stucky ’73 Potomac, Maryland Thank you for the fine story about my colleague Gregory Maggs ’88 in the Summer issue (“Salute to Justice”). Greg is a superb example of the best the Law School produces, having excelled as academic, as soldier, and as judge. It is also good to see coverage of the military justice system in the Law […] Continue Reading See All » Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.