Skip Navigation With the end of classes, Maryland Today is shifting into its summer schedule of occasional website updates and a weekly roundup email each Wednesday. Remove alert Tuesday, May 31, 2022 MarylandToday Produced by the Office of Strategic Communications Subscribe Now Close Menu Overlay Athletics Arts & Culture Campus & Community People Research Briefs Search Campus Calendar Terp Magazine UMD Right Now University Homepage Maryland Athletics Produced by the Office of Strategic Communications © 2021 Search Athletics Arts & Culture Campus & Community People Research Athletics Men’s Lacrosse Team Captures NCAA Championship 9-7 Win Over Cornell Closes Historic Perfect Season Campus & Community ‘Go Fearlessly Forward’ At New Combined Commencement, Thousands of UMD Students Celebrate People Education Professor, Administrator Elevated to Dean of College Kimberly Griffin to Focus on Research, Innovation, Equity People Alums Named to Time Magazine’s 2022 List of 100 Most Influential People Computer Scientists Helped Finally Finish Sequencing of Human Genome Research UMD Poll: Americans Support Backing Ukraine, But Wearying of Costs Results Show Widening Partisanship in Attitudes on War Campus & Community ‘Go Fearlessly Forward’ At New Combined Commencement, Thousands of UMD Students Celebrate People Education Professor, Administrator Elevated to Dean of College Kimberly Griffin to Focus on Research, Innovation, Equity People Alums Named to Time Magazine’s 2022 List of 100 Most Influential People Computer Scientists Helped Finally Finish Sequencing of Human Genome Research UMD Poll: Americans Support Backing Ukraine, But Wearying of Costs Results Show Widening Partisanship in Attitudes on War Recent Articles Athletics May 21, 2022 Baseball Caps Record-breaking Season with B1G Title Team Heads to Conference Tournament as No. 1 Seed Research May 20, 2022 Op/ed: Don’t Pin Shooters’ Motives on Mental Illness Horrifying Trend Rooted in Perverted ‘Quest for Significance,’ Psychology Researcher Says Research May 20, 2022 Early Warning for a Warming World Research Linking Monsoon Season Changes, Several Infectious Diseases Could Improve Public Health Planning View All Articles Events Jun 03 Take The Reins - Barber’s Knoxville: Summer of 1915 Jun 04 Lopez-Gomez Returns With Tower, Ravel & Mussorgsky Jun 05 NOI+F Community Concert View Full Calendar June 3rd / 7:00pm To - 10:00pm NCAA Regional: Baseball vs. LIU The Terps will take on Long Island University as they host the first NCAA Regional in College Park. Don't Miss EXPERTS in the News Things that have just broken that we would consider an immediate crisis, whether it’s an earthquake or an assassination, news jumps to cover it. By month five or year five in an ongoing conflict, it typically disappears. Susan D. Moeller Professor of journalism, on how the war in Ukraine drains attention from other global crises NBC News In Brief May 31, 2022 Maryland Baseball to Host NCAA Regional Tournament The Maryland baseball team earned the No. 15 seed in the 2022 NCAA Baseball Championship and will serve as the top seed this week in the first College Park regional tournament. May 26, 2022 Pines Encourages Flexible Summer Schedules for Faculty, Staff University of Maryland President Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community today: Our university community persevered through an unusually challenging period, particularly over the past two academic years. You have met many challenges with professionalism, creativity and great energy. May 25, 2022 USM Foundation Wins Endowment of the Year Award The University System of Maryland (USM) Foundation’s investment office was recognized last month at Institutional Investor’s 19th annual Hedge Fund Industry Awards, winning the Endowment of the Year category. Led by Chief Investment Officer Sam Gallo, the office manages endowment funds for the benefit of institutions and foundations affiliated with the USM as well as six Maryland community college foundations. View All Briefs Features Tesmoodo, Lots of Testudo and a Testament to Terp Spirit After Hiatus, Maryland Day Returns to Campus With Festive Flair Gallery Alumni Association Honors Eight at Celebration of Terps Awardees Include Accomplished Authors, an Athlete, an Academic and More Story Maryland Today is produced by the Office of Strategic Communications for the University of Maryland community weekdays during the academic year, except for university holidays. Faculty, staff and students receive the daily Maryland Today enewsletter. To be added to the subscription list, sign up here: Subscribe The Flagship Institution of the State of Maryland Turner Hall 7736 Baltimore Ave. College Park, MD 20742-5151, USA today@umd.edu 301.405.TERP Calendar