Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Texas Tech University Surpasses 40,000 Students George Watson September 22, 2020 Another year of record growth includes benchmarks in retention and graduation rates. Despite challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, Texas Tech University has continued a growth trend that has made it one of the fastest-growing institutions in the United States in the last 10 years. This fall, Texas Tech has again attained a record enrollment, for the 12th consecutive year, with 40,322 students as of the 20th day of class on Monday (Sept. 21). "The most impressive aspect of our growth is that it has been achieved alongside significant improvements in student success as reflected in record retention and graduation rates and widespread recognition of Texas Tech as a national research institution," said Lawrence Schovanec, Texas Tech president. "This significant benchmark in enrollment reflects the work of our faculty and staff, increased scholarship support, enhanced recruitment and marketing strategies, and the support and success of our alumni who contribute to the Texas Tech brand." In surpassing 40,000 students, Texas Tech has exceeded an ambitious goal that was often cited by then-Chancellor Kent Hance, and formally announced in the Making it Possible, 2010-2020 Strategic Plan, when Texas Tech enrolled 30,049 students. It's significant that Texas Tech has met every aspect of that lofty goal: Grow to 40,000 students by 2020, with a heavy emphasis on increasing the number of transfer and graduate students and ensuring a diverse population of students; concentrating not only on the size of the freshman class but also on retention and graduation rates at or exceeding the average of the university's peers. This fall's enrollment, which includes a record number of 7,053 graduate students, represents a 34% increase over the total enrollment when the goal was announced. Texas Tech's growth has been significantly aided by its diverse student population that has increased by nearly 9,000 in the last 10 years. The university has seen an eight-fold increase in Hispanic students and a six-fold increase in Black students during this time. Texas Tech's growth has been accompanied by record retention and graduation rates. This fall, Texas Tech achieved records in first-year retention (87.6%) and six-year graduation rates (63.3%). Significant increases in scholarship awards over the past five years have helped Texas Tech recruit a record number of Presidential Merit Scholars and National Merit Finalists. This year's class has 3,966 Presidential Scholars compared to 1,733 five years ago. The incoming class also includes 20 National Merit Finalists, bringing the campus total to a record 72, a 10-fold increase since 2015. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Feature Stories, President, Stories, Students, TTU Features, enrollment, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of the President The Office of the President is committed to enhancing Texas Tech University's presence as a top tier national public research university through efforts that promote even greater levels of student success, academic quality and reputation, research and creative activities, and outreach dimensions. For information about future events, please visit President's Events. Twitter Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:17 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index