Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech University Welcomes Students Back With Raider Welcome Anna Hedges August 16, 2019 Students can participate in more than 150 events. The Texas Tech University Office of Transition & Engagement will host Raider Welcome beginning Sunday (Aug. 18) through Aug. 31. New and returning students can participate in more than 150 fun and free events. “I've always seen Raider Welcome as coming back to campus,” said Rachel Jackson, associate director of the Office of Transition & Engagement. “While I do think it is targeted to first-year and transfer students, it's a great way for upper-class students to start the year fresh, get energized and maybe do things they didn't do their first year. Something new we have added this year is the ability for students to download the schedule to the built-in calendar app on their phones. It's the easiest way to find out what's going on and what's new. You can find and download the link on our website.” Throughout the two weeks, students can participate in events focused on academic success, wellness and recreation, social connections, culture and diversity, community involvement and Texas Tech traditions. This year there also are two service projects with Habitat for Humanity and Vitalant where students can give back to the Lubbock community. Some of the signature events this year include: 99¢ Steak Night: 5 p.m. Monday (Aug. 19), Urbanovsky Park Amphitheater Ice Cream Social: 6 p.m. Monday (Aug. 19), University Career Center, Wiggins Complex, south door entry Night at the SUB: 4p-9 p.m. Tuesday (Aug. 20), Student Union Building Student Organization Fair: 6-7 p.m. Tuesday (Aug. 20), SUB, Red Raider Ballroom Barnes and Noble VIP Nite: 7-10 p.m. Wednesday (Aug. 21), Barnes and Noble Bookstore in the SUB Raider Royale Casino Night: 8-11 p.m. Thursday (Aug. 22), United Supermarkets Arena Hub City Fest: 7-9 p.m. Friday (Aug. 23), R1 parking lot, west of the Chemistry building Drive-in Movie: 8:30-11 p.m. Friday (Aug. 23), Robert H. Ewalt Student Recreation Center, Leisure Pool Raider Roundup: 7-8:30 p.m. Sunday (Aug. 25), Urbanovsky Park Recreation Field For a full schedule and more information on each event, visit the Raider Welcome website. Join the conversation on social media by following @TTUengagement on Twitter and using the hashtag #RaiderWelcome. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. CONTACT: Rachel Jackson, associate director, Office of Transition & Engagement, Texas Tech University, (806) 742-2993 or rachel.jackson@ttu.edu tags: Campus Life, Stories, Students, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile University Career Center The University Career Center promotes each student's success by providing career development, career exploration, and job search opportunities to undergraduate, graduate, international, distance students and alumni. Opportunities include: career assessments, resume and cover letter critiques, mock interviews, personal statement critiques, faculty document critiques, salary negotiation assistance, career events. The Career Center staff is available to assist in identifying your marketable skills and career development needs. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Hire Red Raiders is the job posting board for employers seeking to hire TTU students and graduates. University Recreation The Robert H. Ewalt Student Recreation Center opened its doors for the first time in the spring of 1980 and is one of the largest campus recreation facilities in the United States. It offers students, faculty, and staff of Texas Tech University an outstanding opportunity to participate in almost any indoor recreational activity imaginable. There are 242,000 square feet of activity space in the Recreation Center and eight courts with multipurpose flooring to accommodate basketball, volleyball and badminton. Student Union & Activities Student Union & Activities promotes student success by offering a variety of programs, activities, services, and facilities that, when taken together, represent a well-considered plan for the development of community at Texas Tech University. The Student Union is the community center of the Texas Tech University campus. It provides an environment for relaxation, social interaction, education and exchange of thoughts. It serves Tech students, staff, faculty, alumni and the greater Lubbock community. Student Activities complements the University's academic programs. It enhances the overall educational experiences of students through development of, exposure to, and participation in social, cultural, multicultural, intellectual, recreational, traditional, community service and campus governance programs. Twitter Facebook Instagram Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 12:58 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index