Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette A call to public service Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Campus A call to public service Campus & Community A call to public service “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic,” said U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland. “Let it be defined by public service.” Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights By Christina Pazzanese Harvard Staff Writer DateMay 29, 2022May 29, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Pandemic does little to slow traveling grad View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 The Classes of 2020 and 2021 finally got their day under the trees of Tercentenary Theatre Sunday morning, having missed out on the pageantry and rituals of Commencement after the pandemic forced graduations online over the past two years. For the University’s second Commencement in four days, nearly 9,000 of the graduates RSVP’d their plans to return to Cambridge for the full cap-and-gown experience and to hear featured speaker U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland ’74, J.D. ’77 make a plea for more to embrace public service for at least some part of their lives at a time when the nation’s democratic institutions face historic threat. “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic,” he said in an address that was both personal and often impassioned. “Let it be defined by public service.” A longtime public servant himself, Garland, 69, spent decades as a top Justice Department official and federal judge before President Barack Obama nominated him to the U.S. Supreme Court in 2016 following the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, only to see his nomination blocked by Senate Republicans. (“Life doesn’t always turn out the way you expect,” Garland joked. “Trust me on that.”) He was sworn in as President Biden’s pick for Attorney General in March 2021. Garland touched on the three recent mass shootings, calling them “horrific attack[s]” by gunmen in Uvalde, Texas; Laguna Woods, California; and Buffalo, New York. “These tragedies only underscore how urgent the call to public service for your generation truly is,” he said. While there are many ways to serve and many problems to resolve, the ongoing threats to democracy and democratic institutions, both in the U.S. and abroad, make the need for broad participation “especially urgent,” he said. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is a clear threat that should unify Americans and their international allies. In the U.S., democracy is being imperiled by efforts to undermine the right to vote and violence and threats of violence toward people “because of who they are or how they serve the public,” whether it’s on an airplane or in a restaurant or administering local elections, serving on a school board, or working as a journalist, he said. “In a democracy, people vote, argue, and debate — often loudly — in order to achieve the policy outcome, they desire,” he said. “But the promise of democracy is that people will not employ violence to affect that outcome.” “Sending you home in March of 2020 is one of the hardest things I have ever done,” President Larry Bacow told the graduating Classes of 2020 and 2021. “Thank you all for … giving us the opportunity to provide you with the proper sendoff that you so richly deserve.” Jon Chase/Harvard Staff Photographer Decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court over the last decade have “significantly weakened” many of the “important tools” that the Voting Rights Act of 1965 gave the Justice Department to protect the rights of eligible voters from racially discriminatory practices, he said. Since then, there’s been a “dramatic increase” in legislation to make it harder for “millions of eligible voters” to cast ballots and choose their representatives. “Those efforts threaten the foundation of our system of government — and there may be worse to come,” he said, noting talk among Republican politicians to give state legislatures the power to set aside the choice of voters. “When I was sitting where you are sitting today,” he told the graduates, “there were many things to worry about, but it never occurred to me that the right to vote would again be threatened in this country.” Garland spoke of the dangers of the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol, which took place as Congress prepared to certify the vote count of the Electoral College. The “proceedings were disrupted for hours, interfering with a fundamental element of American democracy: the peaceful transfer of power from one administration to the next.” He drew a straight line between the Department of Justice’s original mission — to combat white supremacists, like the Ku Klux Klan, who used violence to prevent Black Americans from voting and exercising other constitutionally protected rights — and the Department’s ongoing prosecution of those involved in the Capitol attack. “A democracy cannot survive if its citizens forsake the rule of law in favor of violence or threats of violence,” he said. “We are all in this together. We must protect each other.” He reiterated remarks he made in January, saying prosecutors would “hold accountable everyone who was criminally responsible for the Jan. 6 assault on our democracy.” Garland has drawn criticism for what some perceive as the department’s focus on low-level attackers and not on White House or Trump campaign officials. The House Select Committee investigating the assault will hold public hearings next month. Resilience and relief were top of mind for graduates and administrators alike. “Sending you home in March of 2020 is one of the hardest things I have ever done. At the time, I never imagined that the pandemic would disrupt campus life for close to two years and would necessitate canceling not one, but two Commencements,” President Larry Bacow told the happy graduates and their elated family members. “Thank you all for … giving us the opportunity to provide you with the proper sendoff that you so richly deserve.” “Your time as students — though not what you would have wished, though not what any of us would have wished for you — coincided with this institution at its best. We were reminded of something that has been true of Harvard since its earliest days: We rise to the challenge. Whatever the world throws at us, we meet that challenge, and you did. I could not be prouder of each and every one of you.” The 2020 and 2021 Commencement speakers, Martin Baron, former executive editor of The Washington Post, and Ruth Simmons, Ph.D. ’73, president of Prairie View A&M University in Texas and a leading voice in higher education, were also on hand. Baron received an honorary degree awarded to him in 2021. Joining him were the other 2021 honorands: Arlie Hochschild, University of California at Berkeley sociologist; Margaret Marshall M.Ed ’69, retired chief justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court; Sebastião Salgado, Brazilian photojournalist and documentary filmmaker; and Anna Deavere Smith, award-winning actor and playwright. In a break from tradition, one student from each School thanked the many people, especially Harvard staff and faculty members, who worked diligently throughout the last two years to make remote learning and the return to campus successful and safe. “Members of the Class of 2020, members of the Class of 2021, you need not be challenged further — at least during your time at Harvard,” Bacow said. “May you proceed from this space connected to one another, steeled by your experience, more confident and resilient, and ready to meet whatever the world throws at you in the future. Take what you have learned during your time here and use your education to leave this imperfect world better than you found it. I have great confidence that you will.” Related Break down walls. Vanquish villains. Stand up and speak out. Facts and truth matter. 6 past Harvard Commencement speakers offer inspiring messages of justice, courage, resilience, empathy Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Pandemic does little to slow traveling grad View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Campus & Community Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel emeritus of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, receives the Radcliffe Medal. Photos by Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer