Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine to Name Equine Skills Lab Weston Brooks May 2, 2022 The school will unveil the new name of its equine clinical skills lab honoring a $1 million gift from the Allsup Family Charitable Foundation. This event is open to MEDIA ONLY. Footage of the clinical skill lab will be provided to media after the event. WHAT: The Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine is honoring the Allsup Family Charitable Foundation with a naming ceremony for its equine clinical skills lab. Mariposa Station WHEN: 10:30 a.m. Wednesday (May 4) WHERE: School of Veterinary Medicine Mariposa Station, 807 North Soncy Road in Amarillo EVENT: The School of Veterinary Medicine is honoring the Allsup Family Charitable Foundation for its donation to the school by unveiling the name of its equine clinical skills lab at the event. The ceremony will honor not only the generous $1 million gift, but also the legacy of Allsup Convenience Store founder Lonnie Allsup and the impact he and the Allsup family have had in West Texas, New Mexico and the cutting horse industry. The contribution will provide veterinary students with world-class hands-on education in equine medicine. Distinguished speakers include Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec, School of Veterinary Medicine Dean Guy Loneragan, Associate Dean of Clinical Programs Britt Conklin, a member of the Allsup family, and Lonnie's long-time cutting-horse trainer Pete Branch. Dean Loneragan, President Schovanec, and Associate Dean Conklin will be available for interviews following the ceremony. CONTACT: Weston Brooks Director, Communications and Marketing, Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine, Texas Tech University wesbrooks@ttu.edu (806) 834-8323 Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: News Releases, Veterinary School, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 4, 2022 6:23 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index