Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Business & Government Bush School D.C. Professor To Testify Before US House Foreign Affairs Committee Yuval Weber will speak about authoritarianism and kleptocracy in Russia. By Lesley Henton, Texas A&M University Division of Marketing & Communications May 27, 2021 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Yuval Weber A professor at the Texas A&M University Bush School teaching site in Washington, D.C., Yuval Weber, will testify before the House Foreign Affairs Committee today at 12 p.m. CDT. Weber will present “Understanding Authoritarianism and Kleptocracy in Russia” to the Europe, Energy, Environment, and Cyber Subcommittee. In addition to his role at the Bush School D.C., Weber also serves as the Bren Chair of Russian Military and Political Strategy at the Brute Krulak Center for Innovation and Creativity at Marine Corps University in Quantico, VA. He is an expert on a range of Russian and Eurasian security, political, and economic topics. He is currently studying the Russian political economy. Weber’s testimony can be viewed on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs’ website. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Media contact: Robyn Small, 202-773-0026, rsmall@tamu.edu Related Stories Campus Life Bush School DC Hosts First Graduation The teaching site's first classes began in January 2021. Campus Life Professor Jim Olson Named Inaugural 41 Award Recipient The award recognizes a Texas A&M faculty member or administrator who exemplifies the values of the late President George H.W. Bush. Campus Life Texas A&M Celebrates Bush School 25th Anniversary At New DC Location Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Texas Congressman Michael McCaul joined A&M and System officials to recognize 25 years of carrying the Bush legacy of public service. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Email Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top