Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The University of Kansas Search form Search this site Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Menu Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Search Search form Search this site Home News News archive KU news archive Find in any news type Awards Campus Life Profiles Research Service & Outreach involving any people Alumni Athletics Faculty/Staff Graduate students International State of Kansas Surrounding community Undergraduate students KU Today May 30, 2022 Latest news Arts & Humanities Business & Communication Education & Behavior Health & Wellness Law, Policy & Society Science & Engineering Sustainability & Environment KU Engineering tests new environmentally friendly refrigerant at Watson Library Fri, 05/27/2022 — When researchers at the University of Kansas wanted to test a new, environmentally friendly “chiller system” for large buildings, they didn’t have to go far — they chose Watson Library on the KU Lawrence campus. “It just makes it... KU Student Affairs announces leadership appointments Thu, 05/26/2022 — LAWRENCE – The University of Kansas Office of Student Affairs has appointed Jordan Brandt and Nikita Haynie to leadership positions. Brandt is the new director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA), while Haynie takes over as the director of the Emily Taylor Center for Women & Gender Equity. Jordan Brandt Brandt, who spent the last seven months as the interim director of the OMA, began her permanent appointment May 1. “As interim director, Jordan’s work has been well received by campus partners, and, most importantly, students,” said Kevin Joseph, assistant vice provost in Student Affairs. “After two years of many transitions within the OMA, Jordan has KU chapter of Phi Beta Kappa announces new initiates Thu, 05/26/2022 — The University of Kansas Alpha chapter of Phi Beta Kappa academic honor society has initiated 91 new members Jennifer Harrison, president of KU’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter and director of the Business Leadership Program and Jack Dicus Business... Hall Center for the Humanities announces awards, fellowships for 2022-23 Thu, 05/26/2022 — The Hall Center for the Humanities at the University of Kansas has announced the recipients of fellowships and grants awarded for 2022-2023. “As always, the applications submitted were impressive, reflecting the extraordinary quality of... Dole Institute to debut new exhibition featuring story of MIA soldier's wife Thu, 05/26/2022 — The Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics at the University of Kansas will debut a new original exhibition, “Missing, Then Action: An Army Wife Speaks Out,” in the Elizabeth Dole Gallery and Reading Room on June 14, with a public program... Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute set to fight mental, physical stressors Thu, 05/26/2022 — LAWRENCE – From May 26-29, first responders across the state of Kansas, representing multiple fire and emergency service agencies, will participate in a four-day mental and physical health, wellness and resilience training workshop. The workshop, sponsored by Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute at the University of Kansas, will be run by O2X Human Performance, a training and education company founded by former Navy SEALs. As tactical athletes, first responders risk their lives daily to keep their communities safe. They endure physical and, more importantly, mental stress throughout their careers. As a result, it’s become critical that they train their Study photographically identifies characteristics that make proficient basketball scorers Thu, 05/26/2022 — Anyone who’s ever shot a basketball has heard a coach or well-meaning bystander give them tips like “bend your knees,” “tuck your elbow in” or “release the ball as high as possible.” A new series of studies from the University of... School of Business to hold sixth annual Summer Venture in Business Wed, 05/25/2022 — The University of Kansas School of Business will host two sessions of its sixth annual Summer Venture in Business program for high school students from June 5-7 and from July 8-10. The program brings rising 10th, 11th and 12th grade minority... KU units work together to assist Ukrainian students, scholars Tue, 05/24/2022 — Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February, units across the University of Kansas have come together to support Ukrainian students on the Lawrence campus and assist students and scholars displaced by the war. As an institution with... Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center graduates 293rd Basic Training Class Mon, 05/23/2022 — Twenty new law enforcement officers graduated from the Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center (KLETC) on May 20 at a ceremony held in the KLETC Integrity Auditorium. Officer Daniel Harshbarger of the Rose Hill Police Department was the... 31 KU students receive Gilman scholarships Fri, 05/20/2022 — Thirty-one University of Kansas undergraduate students have recently received the prestigious Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship to study or intern abroad in countries around the world. Gilman Scholars are selected from a group... University community remembers longtime employee Heidi Karn Barker Thu, 05/19/2022 — The University of Kansas community is remembering Heidi Karn Barker, a functional systems analyst for KU Student Information Systems. Barker died May 8 at age 38. “I am profoundly saddened to learn of the death of Heidi Karn Barker, who was a... KU chancellor announces promotion, tenure for 160 faculty and researchers for fall 2022 Thu, 05/19/2022 — LAWRENCE – Chancellor Douglas A. Girod has approved the promotion and award of tenure, where indicated, for 50 individuals at the University of Kansas and Edwards campuses and 110 individuals at KU Medical Center campuses. Girod issued a joint statement on the accomplishment of these faculty members with Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Barbara Bichelmeyer, who chairs the University Committee on Promotion and Tenure on the Lawrence campus, and Dr. Robert Simari, executive vice chancellor at KU Medical Center. “Congratulations to an exceptional group of faculty and researchers who have reached the next milestone in their careers. Our faculty conduct innovative Construction causes road closures on KU Lawrence campus Thu, 05/19/2022 — Road closures will impact travel on and near the University of Kansas Lawrence campus throughout the summer months. Affected roads include Naismith Drive, 19th Street and Oread Avenue, and the first closures began May 16. Running from May... Artists take on long-overdue topic of parenthood in new exhibition Wed, 05/18/2022 — LAWRENCE – Parenthood may seem like the most natural, nearly universal adult condition. And yet, according to Maria Velasco, in the art world and especially the academic art world, parenthood is truly challenging, edgy subject matter because it’s liable to get you dismissed as hokey and sentimental. That’s why it is a bold choice for the subject of a forthcoming exhibition the University of Kansas professor of visual art co-curated for the Lawrence Arts Center titled “Making It Work.” The show opens May 27 and runs through July 30. “The most activist thing we can do right now is to speak up and take up public space – to make ourselves visible, because the culture Law school honors Class of 2022 graduates for scholarship, leadership and service Wed, 05/18/2022 — The University of Kansas School of Law honored graduates in the Class of 2022 at a hooding ceremony May 14. During the ceremony, 11 graduates received awards for distinguishing themselves in scholarship, leadership and service to the law school... Center for Montessori Research houses large online Montessori research bibliography Wed, 05/18/2022 — Scholars and researchers investigating the Montessori model of education now have a robust tool to aid their efforts. Housed at the Center for Montessori Research (CMR), a center within the University of Kansas Achievement & Assessment... KU career website HireJayhawks.com expands job postings for students Wed, 05/18/2022 — The website HireJayhawks.com now offers one comprehensive job search platform, allowing University of Kansas students to explore the part-time job opportunities available to them on-campus, locally and remotely. Previously, students had to... KU to lead $24M statewide investment to advance research on resilient and socially equitable infrastructure Tue, 05/17/2022 — LAWRENCE – Kansas currently ranks ninth in federal disaster declarations per capita. Amid changing climate patterns and frequent extreme weather events, historically underserved communities often receive less aid and recover slower from weather disasters. Now, a new statewide initiative leveraging $20 million from the National Science Foundation and $4 million from the state of Kansas will address this disparity by developing tools that help communities with limited resources prepare for and bounce back from disasters. The project aligns with the Kansas Science & Technology Plan, which was developed in 2021 and endorsed by the Kansas Board of Regents, who Robinson Center pools to close Tue, 05/17/2022 — Beginning June 1, the swimming pools in Robinson Center will no longer be available to KU students, faculty or staff for open swimming, the University of Kansas has announced. The Department of Health, Sport & Exercise Sciences, which... Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Hometown news Graduation and honor rolls KU News Service podcast KU researchers share their expertise on today's most pressing topics, including COVID-19. “There are as many coaching cues as there are coaches, but there is a lack of scientific literature focused on exam… https://t.co/28dm2j2i0W «» Follow us on Twitter » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » KU Today Contact The University of Kansas 785-864-2700 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Foursquare Pintrest All social media at KU » Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Contacts CMS Login Giving Jobs Maps