Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech University - Costa Rica Graduates Inaugural Class Lucy Greenberg May 24, 2022 The graduating class from the new campus had six graduates, all representing the College of Human Sciences. Saturday was a historic day for Texas Tech University. The international campus in Costa Rica that opened its doors in 2018 celebrated its first graduating class. “These graduates are the first class to earn a Texas Tech degree completely outside the U.S.,” said President Lawrence Schovanec. “For many years, we've worked to advance the university's global reach and impact. Today, we celebrate a historic moment for Texas Tech University and for our students in Costa Rica.” President Schovanec attended the commencement along with Texas Tech Provost and Senior Vice President, Ron Hendrick, Vice President of the Division of Diversity Equity & Inclusion, Carol A. Sumner, Dean of the College of Education, Jesse Perez Mendez and Professor of Political Science, Katharine Hayhoe, along with other members of Texas Tech faculty and the Chairman of the Board of Regents. “Texas Tech University - Costa Rica students exemplify students who work to improve themselves for, and in their communities,” said Hendrick. “There's no doubt these students will represent Texas Tech as engaged, world-changing alumni.” The university announced its intent to open an international campus in Costa Rica in 2016, and two years later, welcomed its inaugural class. Located in San José, the campus offers students in Central America an opportunity to earn credits necessary for undergraduate or graduate degrees. The programs offered are through the Jerry S. Rawls College of Business, the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering, the College of Arts & Sciences and the Department of Hospitality and Retail Management within the College of Human Sciences. The campus is supported through income generated by student enrollment and revenues collected from Promerica Group, a highly reputable multinational conglomerate of companies operating throughout Central and Latin America. For more information about Texas Tech University - Costa Rica, visit the website at www.ttu.edu/costarica/. Image Gallery Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Arts and Sciences, College of Education, College of Engineering, Diversity, Feature Stories, Rawls College of Business Administration, Stories, TTU Features, college of human sciences, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater.Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion is dedicated to create and support an environment that allows all members of the university community to be academically and professionally successful. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech DDEI Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 24, 2022 11:36 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index