Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Stories Medicine Expert Joins Faculty of Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine George Watson December 3, 2020 Emily Sundman’s research has resulted in advancements in large-animal health. Say the words "New York" and most people will think of the large, metropolitan area that is the financial and shopping center of the U.S. Few, if any, say agriculture. Yet if you get outside of the main city, the state of New York is an important contributor of agricultural products in the country. The state has a $3.6 billion agricultural industry with more than 35,000 farms producing products from apples and cabbage to milk and cheese, grapes, maple syrup and cauliflower. It is here where Emily Sundman was raised and saw firsthand the critical role agriculture has on the state and the importance of those who care for farm animals. This became the foundation for a career supporting animal health. That career now brings her to West Texas as the latest member to join the faculty of the new Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo as an assistant professor of medicine. She began her duties on Tuesday (Dec. 1). Emily Sundman "I am thrilled to join the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in time to welcome the inaugural class," Sundman said. "Working at the School of Veterinary Medicine is a career dream realized in order to further veterinary care for our large animals." Sundman has spent much of her career involved in agricultural industry research and development, inventing ways to directly and positively impact animal health and assisting practicing veterinarians who seek to do the same. Since December 2013, Sundman has served a role in clinical development for Kindred Biosciences, which takes strategies that are safely used for human therapeutics and applies them to the development of animal biologics, such as monoclonal antibodies and recombinant proteins. From 2013 to 2017, she oversaw the clinical development phase, including efficacy and safety, of new animal pharmaceuticals for approval by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use (CVMP). She also designed and executed clinical studies and was primarily responsible for pharmaceuticals for use in horses, dogs and cats. She was promoted to Senior Clinical Development Manager in 2017, where she was responsible for the approval of Zimeta IV for use in controlling fever in horses in the U.S. She served in this role until September, when she was promoted to Associate Director of Clinical Development, increasing the responsibilities for early phase strategy and development of products for USDA and CVMP approval. Sundman also has been co-owner and veterinarian at Picolino Ranch since 2015. The ranch, located in Lipan, Texas, specializes in the breeding and development of Aberdeen cattle, raising them to become accustomed to the pastureland and climate associated with North Texas. Since 2013, she has served as an emergency equine ambulatory veterinarian serving in Davis, California, and later the Lipan areas. "2020 has shown us the importance of innovation," said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. "To help with and prevent COVID-19, the call went out for new therapies and for new vaccines. Innovative products are now arriving, and society has benefited from this research and discovery. Veterinary medicine is no different. Our animals – large and small – benefit from new therapies and new preventatives. Dr. Sundman will add to our school's vibrant research and discovery efforts. She also serves an important role helping our researchers design the best possible trials to test new discoveries. We are so lucky Dr. Sundman has joined our school. We will benefit so very much from what she contributes." Sundman earned bachelor's degrees in history and biology from Syracuse University and her Doctor of Veterinary Medicine from Cornell University in 2012. At Cornell, she was influenced greatly working by professor and veterinarian Lisa Fortier. That's where Sundman said she got a good look at what true veterinary research was like. Sundman has been a Diplomat of the American Board of Veterinary Practitioners (Equine Practice) since 2019. "Dr. Sundman brings a unique background to our program from industry and research, which will help guide our faculty in their programs," said John Dascanio, senior associate dean for academic and student affairs. "Combining that experience with her clinical background allows for application toward clinical practice, enabling her to serve as a great mentor to the school and to the faculty. We welcome her to her new role with the school." Sundman joins a growing and vibrant team of faculty and staff at the School of Veterinary Medicine. Additional team members will continue to be added over the next few months as the school prepares to welcome its inaugural class in the fall of 2021. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In September 2020, the school was granted a Letter of Reasonable Assurance, from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education and has begun the admissions process in preparation for classes to begin in August of 2021. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to serve rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Faculty, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:20 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index