Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Sports & Entertainment Back to school During an ‘exciting and gratifying year,’ Dionne Koller Fine LL.M. ’22, a tenured professor of law, became a student again. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Sports & Entertainment Steve Kerr holds court at Harvard Law Steve Kerr, head coach for the Golden State Warriors, discusses leadership and basketball as part of the Dream Big speaker series at Harvard Law. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Business, International, Sports & Entertainment Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Association for Law and Business, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Play ball! Sports law expert  Peter Carfagna discusses Major League Baseball’s new collective bargaining agreement and the impact it will have on the game of baseball. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Sports & Entertainment At the top of his game National Football League referee Ron Torbert ’88 reaches the pinnacle of his profession: Officiating the Super Bowl. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Sports & Entertainment ‘Life Can Change at the Snap of a Finger’ “It’s an honor to be around my friends and my professors,” says Rehan Staton — “being able to converse with them in person has meant a lot to me.“ Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Sports & Entertainment Brian Flores vs. the NFL Two Harvard Law experts say the suit filed by former Miami Dolphins head coach Brian Flores faces many challenges, but that if he can get it heard in court, Flores has ‘a good story.’ Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Labor Law, Sports & Entertainment Bad News With the rise of social media and the decline of traditional news outlets, especially local news, “constitutional democracy itself is in the balance,” writes Minow in her new book. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Topics: Constitutional, Sports & Entertainment To Pittsburgh with Love Ken Gormley ’80, president of Duquesne University, writes his first novel. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Sports & Entertainment For the Love of Jazz Allan Berland ’63, a retired lawyer, produces classic jazz radio program. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Sports & Entertainment Family matters Harvard Law Today caught up with two pairs of identical twins on campus to find out what life is like with a double. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Business, International, Sports & Entertainment Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard International Law Journal, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Loop navigation Page 1 of 13 First Previous 1 2 3 … 13 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.