Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Unveils New Name of Its Equine Clinical Skills Lab Weston Brooks May 4, 2022 Thanks to a generous $1 million gift from the Allsup Family Charitable Foundation, the school names its equine skills lab after the foundation. In 1956, visionary Lonnie Allsup and his wife, Barbara, opened a one-of-a-kind store in Clovis, New Mexico. Since then, the Allsup's Convenience Store has been a staple in towns all across West Texas and New Mexico. Lonnie also left an indelible mark in Texas and New Mexico in the equine world. To honor Allsup's legacy and his love for horses, the Allsup Family Charitable Foundation generously gifted $1 million to the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo. For this contribution, the School of Veterinary Medicine named its equine skills lab at Mariposa Station “The Allsup Family Charitable Foundation Equine Clinical Skills Lab.” “We are so thankful for the generosity of the Allsup family,” said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. “Now we are entrusted to add to the family's incredible legacy by providing students with world-class, hands-on education in all things equine medicine in The Allsup Family Charitable Foundation Equine Clinical Skills Lab. The extraordinary generosity of donors provides us unique opportunities to deliver educational excellence for our students in an environment that is second-to-none.” While Allsup expanded his business, his love for horses sparked a passionate hobby that would become very dear to him. Owning several ranches, he became heavily involved with training and showing cutting horses. Allsup served as president of the National Cutting Horse Association (NCHA), established a breeding program that produced many heralded horses including, Little Badger Dulce, and was successful in the show pen, where he won the non-pro world championship. In his career, he highlighted West Texas and New Mexico by hosting one of the premier aged-event shows in Farwell. Some might say Allsup helped revive the equine impact in West Texas and highlighted the need for quality equine veterinary care in our rural and regional communities. Lonnie and his long-time trainer, Pete Branch, had several great veterinarians providing care to his cutting horses, one of whom is School of Veterinary Medicine's Britt Conklin, associate dean for clinical programs. Mariposa Station “In the horse world, especially in West Texas, and in the context of the cutting horse, there were no bigger brands than the upside-down A of Allsup and Pete Branch,” Conklin said. Spanning many years, the family has had a strong presence and connection to the communities of West Texas. In fact, Allsup grew up just 50 miles from Lubbock. It was Lubbock where he would later marry his high school sweetheart, Barbara, and attend Texas Tech University before joining the U.S. Air Force. Several years later, his daughter-in law, Jessica, who now serves as director of the Allsup Family Charitable Foundation, attended Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center in Amarillo (TTUHSC). At the time, she would have never contemplated that the empty field to the north of the TTUHSC Amarillo Regional Campus would one day become Texas Tech's new School of Veterinary Medicine. Now, the family continues to leave a footprint on West Texas and at Texas Tech, and this time, it's in a way that helps the equine and veterinary industries. The School of Veterinary Medicine will use their contribution to provide veterinary students with world-class education in its state-of-the-art equine skills lab. This will have a significant impact on students that will unfold for many generations to come. “It is our honor to partner with Texas Tech in training future equine veterinarians and to have this opportunity to give back to the communities of West Texas and Eastern New Mexico so deserving of quality, accessible equine care,” Barbara Allsup said. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation, from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE). The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with deep life experiences in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Feature Stories, Research, Stories, TTU Features, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 4, 2022 3:49 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index