Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Texas Tech Achieves Top Rank in Carnegie Research Classification Glenys Young December 18, 2018 The university is one of 86 public institutions in the Very High Research Activity category. In the revised 2018 edition of the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, Texas Tech University is again listed among the nation's top doctoral universities. Texas Tech is one of 120 U.S. universities and 86 public institutions listed in the Very High Research Activity (R1) category, often referred to as "Carnegie Tier One." Schovanec The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education is a highly regarded measure of a university's research activity and graduate programs. Texas Tech was first named to the Carnegie Highest Research Activity category in 2015. The 2018 rankings are based on research expenditures and doctorates awarded in fiscal year 2017. "Our Carnegie classification reflects the success of our faculty, staff and students," said Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec. "This recognition is a point of pride for the entire Texas Tech community and evidence of Texas Tech's continued progress in attaining status as a research university of the highest quality." Previously announced every five years, the Carnegie Classification is now released every three years. Also, the three doctoral categories have changed names to better accommodate degrees focused on professional practice. As the criteria changes periodically, there's no guarantee a university included in one classification will be included the next time. Heppert "I am very proud of Texas Tech researchers, whose hard work is the foundation for Texas Tech achieving and maintaining our status as an institution in the Carnegie Very High Research Activity classification," said Joseph A. Heppert, vice president for research in the Office of Research & Innovation. "The staff in my office works hard to support researchers, but it is truly the excellence of Texas Tech research faculty, staff and students that enables us to gain continuing recognition among the world's premier research universities." Texas Tech's commitment to research is reflected in record levels of research expenditures and partnerships with industry leaders, such as BASF (formerly Bayer Crop Science), Sandia National Laboratories and Teys Australia. Collaborations such as these have provided a boost to Texas Tech's research profile, as have the ongoing initiatives of the Innovation Hub at Research Park. Texas Tech has shown increases in the number of doctoral degrees awarded in each of the last seven years, including a record 349 in 2018. Doctoral degrees conferred are among the criteria for Carnegie's Very High Research Activity designation. By contrast, the university conferred 224 doctoral degrees in 2008. Six other Texas universities appeared in the Very High Research Activity category: the University of Texas at Austin, the University of Texas at Dallas, Rice University, Texas A&M University, University of Houston and University of North Texas. Each of the eight public institutions in the Big 12 achieved the Tier One designation. About the Carnegie Classification The Carnegie Classification has been the leading framework for recognizing and describing institutional diversity in U.S. higher education for the past four and a half decades. Starting in 1970, the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education developed a classification of colleges and universities to support its program of research and policy analysis. Derived from empirical data on colleges and universities, the Carnegie Classification was originally published in 1973, and subsequently updated in 1976, 1987, 1994, 2000, 2005, 2010, 2015 and 2018 to reflect changes among colleges and universities. This framework has been widely used in the study of higher education, both as a way to represent and control for institutional differences, and also in the design of research studies to ensure adequate representation of sampled institutions, students or faculty. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Achievements, Research, Stories, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Innovation Hub at Research Park This 40,000-square-foot facility is designed to be a resource for the faculty and students of both Texas Tech and the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center as well as community members interested in launching new ventures. Texas Tech is a national research university, and the Innovation Hub at Research Park is critical to building the knowledge-based economy of West Texas through the development of innovators and entrepreneurs who solve society's problems and develop innovations to make impact. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Innovation Hub at Research Park is located at 3911 4th Street, Lubbock, TX, just west of the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. Twitter Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 12:46 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index