Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Criminal ‘Comfort is overrated’ Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch ’84 implores the class of 2022 to be ‘the change we have been waiting for.’ Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Administrative Law, Civil Rights, Criminal, Public Policy Cara Mund receives the Kristin P. Muniz Memorial Award Cara Mund ‘22 is the winner of the second annual Kristin P. Muniz Memorial Award. Mund is recognized for her commitment to justice, her advocacy, compassion for her clients, and stellar representation of each of those clients. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Criminal Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Law School Mock Trial Association, Harvard Women's Law Association, Harvard Journal of Sports and Entertainment Law Cases in Brief: Powell v. Alabama with Dehlia Umunna In the first of the series, “Cases in Brief,” Harvard Law Professor Dehlia Umunna discusses the infamous “Scottsboro Boys” case, Powell v. Alabama (1932), in which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled for the first time that defendants in capital cases have the right to adequate legal counsel. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Criminal, Legal History Loretta Lynch is Harvard Law School’s 2022 Class Day speaker The Hon. Loretta Lynch ’84, who was Attorney General of the United States from 2015 to 2017, will be this year’s speaker for the Class Day ceremonies at Harvard Law School. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Criminal, Public Service The International Criminal Court: Explaining war crimes investigations Amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Alex Whiting, deputy specialist prosecutor at the Kosovo Specialist Prosecutor’s Office in The Hague, outlines the path from investigation to trial, and ultimately to justice. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Comparative Law, Criminal, International, National and International Security President Biden nominates Ketanji Brown Jackson ’96 for Supreme Court Ketanji Brown Jackson ’96 was nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court by President Biden. If confirmed, Jackson would be the first Black woman to serve on the nation’s highest court. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Constitutional, Criminal, Legal History, Public Service Justice for all For the past two years, students in Harvard’s Prison Legal Assistance Project have helped prisoners they say were targeted for retaliatory violence. Themes: Teaching & Learning, Student Spotlights Topics: Civil Rights, Criminal, Human Rights Andrew Manuel Crespo elected to American Law Institute HLS Professor Andrew Crespo was one of 59 members elected to the American Law Institute this year. Thirteen Harvard Law School alumni were also elected. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Criminal, Public Policy, Public Service Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Law Review Weighing President Biden’s first year: Criminal justice reform “This administration needs to get out of its own way, … take action where it can, and create pathways for others to take action where it cannot or will not,” says Premal Dharia, executive director of the Institute to End Mass Incarceration. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Criminal Crimmigration Clinic helps score First Circuit victory for asylum-seeker, Boston-area immigrants In a case that could have national implications, the Harvard Law School Crimmigration Clinic recently convinced judges at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit to discredit the use of controversial municipal gang databases in immigration proceedings. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Criminal, Human Rights Loop navigation Page 1 of 40 First Previous 1 2 3 … 40 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.