Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Professor of Veterinary Microbiology Joins Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine Weston Brooks March 24, 2022 Devendra Shah has a passion for teaching students about the intricacies of microbiology and infectious diseases in veterinary medicine. When Devendra Shah, a first-generation student, was asked what he wanted to be when he grew up, there was no doubt about his answer. After living in a rural town in western India where the cattle industry boomed, he knew he wanted to be a veterinarian. His deep rural roots sparked a life-long pursuit in veterinary medicine. This spark led him on an incredible career journey during which he has developed subject matter expertise. Shah has now landed in the heart of U.S. livestock production. He brings his expertise to the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo as a professor of veterinary microbiology. He began his duties March 1. “I am excited and looking forward to contributing to the foundation of a new dynamic and developing veterinary medical education and research program at Texas Tech,” said Shah. Shah is a skilled veterinarian who specializes in veterinary microbiology and infectious diseases. He focuses on genomics, host-pathogen-microbiota interactions, bacterial pathogenesis, antimicrobial resistance, and strategies to mitigate antibiotic resistance in bacterial pathogens transmitted from animals to humans via food. Shah is an avid educator with a passion for teaching the next generation of veterinarians using clinically relevant, evidence-based instruction with a focus on veterinary microbial infectious disease. “Control of infectious disease is so important to the health and productivity of animals,” said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. “Effective control can also benefit human health. Salmonella, as an example, can spillover between animals and people. Dr. Shah's work at Texas Tech will benefit both animals and people. We are so thrilled he chose to join our School and the Amarillo community.” Shah's educational career began at Bombay Veterinary College in Mumbai, India, where he earned his Bachelor of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry in 1995. He received his master's degree in 1997 with a research focus on pathobiology and epidemiology of multi-drug resistant Salmonella in commercial poultry production. In 2002, Shah completed his PhD degree with research on molecular epidemiology and developing diagnostics for the detection of causative agents of bovine and human tuberculosis. Shah then pursued his postdoctorate at the biosafety research institute at Chonbuk National University in South Korea where he made landmark discoveries in the areas of molecular pathogenesis of Salmonella. Also, he developed novel molecular diagnostics for the causative agents of fowl typhoid and pullorum disease in commercial poultry production. He came to the U.S. to pursue his second post-doctorate in 2005 at Washington State University, where he became an assistant professor of veterinary microbiology and infectious diseases at the College of Veterinary Medicine in 2008. He received tenure and was promoted to associate professor in 2014. Shah has taught veterinary clinical microbiology and infectious diseases to over 1,300 veterinary students, and he has trained several young researchers in the areas of food-safety, antimicrobial resistance and control of food-borne pathogens in agriculture animal production. “Dr. Shah brings clinical microbiology experience to our team. He will teach veterinary students the important aspects of diagnostic microbiology so that they can be effective practitioners. Why to pick an antimicrobial? How to interpret an antibiotic sensitivity result? What diagnostic test to use for particular bacteria? How to be responsible in antibiotic use. These are just some examples of the impact areas he will have with our students,” said John Dascanio, senior associate dean for academic and student affairs. “We are extremely happy someone with his experience was able to join the School of Veterinary Medicine.” Shah has had a distinguished career with numerous achievements. The most notable being awarded a Caroline Engle Distinguished Professor of Infectious Disease Research at Washington State University. He is a member of the U.S. Conference of Research Workers on Animal Diseases (CRWAD), Poultry Science Association (PSA), Indian Association of Veterinary Microbiologists, Immunologists & Infectious Disease and Indian Association of Veterinary Public Health Specialists. Shah is thrilled to begin working with faculty, staff and students at Texas Tech and is ready to inspire the next generation of veterinarians to make a difference in the community and beyond. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation, from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE). The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with a passion to serve rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Faculty, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 24, 2022 9:34 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index