Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today National Wind Institute Celebrates Five Decades of Research, Education, Innovation Glenys Young May 12, 2022 Approximately 175 people are expected to attend the anniversary event. WHAT: Texas Tech University's National Wind Institute (NWI) is celebrating 50 years of wind research, education and innovation. WHEN: 6-9 p.m. Tuesday (May 17) WHERE: Frazier Alumni Pavilion, 2680 Drive of Champions EVENT: Texas Tech is a leading institution in all things wind as evidenced by the NWI and its world-class researchers and research facilities. The NWI is home to the Wind Science & Engineering (WiSE) doctoral program, the first doctoral degree program in wind science and engineering in the nation. This 50th-anniversary event will celebrate that legacy. John Schroeder, a professor of atmospheric science and the NWI's senior director, will emcee the program as the institute celebrates this milestone. “The National Wind Institute at Texas Tech University has contributed 50 years of research, teaching and service excellence that has undeniably influenced society's well-being,” Schroeder said. “This event will celebrate those contributions, as well as the many people who participated in them over the years.” Approximately 175 people from around the world are expected to attend. The event is not open to the public, but media are welcome. CONTACT: Anna Thomas Associate managing director, National Wind Institute, Texas Tech University anna.e.thomas@ttu.edu (806) 834-3105 Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: College of Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering, News Releases, events, wind Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile National Wind Institute <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> National Wind Institute (NWI) is world-renowned for conducting innovative research in the areas of wind energy, wind hazard mitigation, wind-induced damage, severe storms and wind-related economics. NWI is also home to world-class researchers with expertise in numerous academic fields such as atmospheric science, civil, mechanical and electrical engineering, mathematics and economics, and NWI was the first in the nation to offer a doctorate in Wind Science and Engineering, and a Bachelor of Science in Wind Energy. Twitter Facebook Follow the Hurricane Research Team: Facebook Twitter Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 12, 2022 8:56 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index