Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law Bulletin - Summer 2019 Table of Contents Features Common Knowledge Zero-L, a new online course, is meant to help all incoming students, including those who don’t have any pre-law background. Featuring an array of Harvard Law School professors, it covers topics ranging from the separation of powers to how to speak in class in response to a cold call. Continue Reading Collecting on Dreams As a 2L, Toby Merrill ’11 was enrolled in a Harvard Law School consumer clinic, litigating against predatory lenders of subprime mortgages. Her new mission is no less urgent: fighting for people affected by the predatory lending practices of some for-profit colleges, alleged to provide worthless degrees in exchange for thousands of dollars in government-backed loans. Continue Reading Presidential Power Surges Particular moments in history and strategic breaks with unwritten rules have helped many U.S. presidents expand their powers incrementally, leading some to wonder how wide-ranging presidential powers can be. Continue Reading Are Americans Getting Enough Fiber? Fiber optic technology, which results in dazzlingly fast and reliable internet connectivity, should be available at a low price to everyone in the U.S., as it is in other countries, argues Susan Crawford. Because of a series of telecom policy decisions, the U.S. is falling further and further behind other nations. On the national level, almost no one is paying attention, says Crawford. And she is out to change that. Continue Reading Departments Inside HLS: News and Views From Campus Alumni Notes & Newsmakers Writ Large: Faculty Books Letters From the Dean Gallery In Memoriam Browse Issue → Submit A Class Note Submit A Letter Submit an Obituary Contact Us Bulletin Archives Download PDF Presidential Power Surges How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers? More Featured Stories Collecting on Dreams Are Americans Getting Enough Fiber? Common Knowledge A Conversation with Jessica Tisch ’08 Gallery Fantastic Voyage: In the words of Archibald MacLeish LL.B. 1919 On the 50th anniversary of man’s first steps on the moon, the Pulitzer Prize-winning writer's New York Times commission is recalled A half century ago, Archibald MacLeish LL.B. 1919 served as a literary interpreter of events beyond the imagination of most observers. Continue Reading Writ Large The Choosing People Faculty Books in Brief: Summer 2019 Inside HLS Her Honor Mandala JET-Powered Learning A Question of Prevention Heard on campus Alumni Notes and Newsmakers A Home Victory Recently elected mayor of his native Shreveport, Louisiana, Adrian Perkins ’18 seeks to rejuvenate the city he loves. HLS Authors: A summer selection of alumni books The latest from alumni authors, chronicling travels to the moon and the Arctic, the dawn of a code war, and the unwinding of a miracle. Defending Domains As a former top national security official and current adviser to companies in the defense, intelligence, and technology sectors, Michael Leiter ’00 has spent his life assessing threats. For India, a New Era in LGBTQ Rights Constitutional lawyer Menaka Guruswamy LL.M. ’01 successfully argued against a colonial-era law that criminalized gay sex in India. The ruling by India's Supreme Court last year went beyond decriminalizing gay sex to acknowledge the individual rights of LGBTQ people and apologize for past mistreatment. Love at Langdell As Anna Alriksson LL.M. ’14 and Kristian Persson walked down the front steps of Langdell library during Spring Reunions weekend, passersby couldn’t help but notice the couple showing off an engagement ring. Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.