Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech Produces Record Number of Fulbright Students Elyssa Sanders May 12, 2022 Six students will spend one year abroad promoting intercultural understanding and knowledge exchange. Six Texas Tech University students have been selected as Fulbright finalists for the 2022-23 academic year, while three students were named semi-finalists. The six finalists will travel to Uzbekistan, Trinidad and Tobago, Mexico, Norway and Canada. “With six finalists and three semi-finalists, this is a record year for Fulbright Students at Texas Tech,” said Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec. “These students have undergone a rigorous selection process and are among the top academic achievers in the nation. During their year abroad, they will serve as exceptional ambassadors for the university and the U.S. We wish them all the best and could not be prouder of this tremendous accomplishment.” One of the Fulbright Students will be teaching English, while the other five will be conducting research in their respective disciplines. “Our Fulbright Students are clearly exceptional,” said Ronald Hendrick, provost and senior vice president for Academic Affairs. “Our faculty, who serve as mentors for these students, consistently collaborate to help them achieve. The support our Texas Tech students receive from their faculty mentors is best in class, and one of the factors that helps our students stand apart from their peers.” The following were named Fulbright Students: Aaron Szczesny, a graduating senior in the College of Arts & Sciences and the Honors College, will teach English in Uzbekistan. Anne Wharton, a doctoral student in the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts, will conduct interdisciplinary fine arts research in Trinidad and Tobago. Brook McClurg, a doctoral student in the College of Arts & Sciences' Department of English, will conduct creative writing research in Mexico. Jennifer Robertson, also a doctoral student in the Department of English, will conduct literature research in Norway. Celine Garcia, a doctoral student in the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering, will conduct chemical engineering research in Canada. Samantha Manz, a master's student in the College of Arts & Sciences' Department of History, will conduct research Canada. “The Fulbright Fellowship is the most highly recognized fellowship to support international education and research,” said Mark Sheridan, dean of the Graduate School at Texas Tech. “The award is a tremendous honor that recognizes the academic accomplishments of these students as well as their promise as teachers and researchers.” Three students were named semi-finalists: Diego Martinez and JoHanna Haiduk, both master's students in the Department of History, and Gabriella Ghandour, who graduated with her bachelor's degree in political science from the College of Arts & Sciences and the Honors College in December. “We are fortunate to have earned a record number of student Fulbright awards this year, and I know we are all incredibly proud of these students' hard work and achievements,” said Wendoli Flores, director of the Office of Prestigious External Student Awards. “They are deserving of this high honor. I am thankful for the partnership with Louisa Hope-Weeks, associate dean of the Graduate School and professor of chemistry, as together we aim to identify and support more students pursuing Fulbright. We also owe much gratitude to the Honors College, the Office of Graduate & Postdoctoral Fellowships, and numerous faculty and staff across campus for their selfless and tireless support of our Fulbright student applicants.” Aliza Wong, interim dean of the Honors College, expressed gratitude to Flores for mentoring this year's Fulbright winners. “We are so grateful to Wendoli Flores for her incredible work in mentoring undergraduate and graduate students through the varied, rigorous processes of application,” Wong said. “She not only advises, reads and manages the university interviews; she keeps the students all on track, ensures they understand the requirements and gives them confidence in their work. Whatever the outcome, these students have gained valuable experience in working on their dossiers. We are so proud of all of them for representing Texas Tech.” The Fulbright Program was created to increase mutual understanding between the people of the U.S. and the people of other countries. The primary source of funding for the Fulbright Program is an annual appropriation made by the U.S. Congress to the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Fulbright is active in more than 160 countries worldwide and partners with participating governments, host institutions, corporations and foundations in foreign countries and in the U.S. “The dedication of students and faculty at Texas Tech to continually strive to be the best in their fields of academic study is truly inspiring,” Hope-Weeks said. “This year's Fulbright finalists and semi-finalists embody what it truly means to be an academic in an international environment.” Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Achievements, College of Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering, College of Visual and Performing Arts, Graduate School, Prestigious External Student Awards, Stories, Students, Videos, honors college Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Prestigious External Student Awards Formerly known as National and International Scholarships and Fellowships, PESA is dedicated to the enhancement of the academic quality and reputation of Texas Tech University by serving as a catalyst for the increase of national and international scholarships awarded to Texas Tech students. We provide support for high-achieving students by providing information and resources on national and international awards and offering services and programs designed to help produce more competitive scholarship applications. Twitter Facebook Instagram Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 18, 2022 10:02 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index