Skip to main content Search Submit Open navigation Topics Close navigation topics All Academics Research Arts Medicine Campus Global Athletics Opinion University Statements Listen Working@Duke Submit PUBLISHED May 11, 2022 IN Academics Joseph Salem Named University Librarian Experienced university librarian will lead the next phase of Libraries’ work to advance the university’s academic mission Joseph Salem comes from Michigan State, where he is dean of libraries and interim associate provost for teaching and learning innovation Share this story Share this story on facebook Share this story on twitter Share this story on reddit Share this story on linkedin Get this story's permalink Print this story By Duke Today Staff Joseph A. Salem Jr., a nationally recognized university librarian and information literacy expert, has been named the Rita DiGiallonardo Holloway University Librarian and Vice Provost for Library Affairs, Provost Sally Kornbluth announced Wednesday. He will be responsible for the leadership and overall management of the Duke University Libraries’ services and collections in support of the academic, instructional, and research needs of faculty, students, and staff across the university. The Duke University Libraries include the Perkins, Bostock, and Rubenstein Libraries on West Campus, the Lilly and Music Libraries on East Campus, and the Pearse Memorial Library at the Duke Marine Lab. Together with the separately administered libraries serving the schools of business, divinity, law and medicine, they form one of the nation’s top 10 private research library systems. Salem will join Duke August 15 from Michigan State University (MSU), where he currently serves as dean of libraries and interim associate provost for teaching and learning innovation. He succeeds Deborah Jakubs, who will retire this month following nearly four decades of service to Duke, including 17 years at the helm of Duke University Libraries. Associate University Librarian Dracine Hodges will serve as interim university librarian until Salem assumes the role. “Joe has distinguished himself as a collaborative and inclusive leader and community builder with a strong vision for the role of university libraries in supporting learning and scholarship,” Kornbluth said. “I am confident he will be an excellent leader for Duke University Libraries and look forward to welcoming him to campus.” Salem has overseen the MSU Libraries since 2018, initiating a strategic planning process for the MSU Libraries and a subsequent reorganization emphasizing diversity, equity, and inclusion, and faculty and student engagement. He also co-led the development of the university-wide MSU 2030 Strategic Plan. During his tenure leading MSU Libraries, Salem oversaw the naming of the Stephen O. Murray and Keelung Hong Special Collections and the largest cash gift in the history of MSU Libraries, which supported a move to climate-controlled space for the Murray and Hong Special Collections and portions of the University Archives and Historical Collections. “I am thrilled to be joining Duke University,” said Salem. “It is clear that the Duke University Libraries are a point of pride for students, faculty, staff, and alumni, and play a key role in the intellectual life of the university. I am honored to lead the Duke University Libraries into their next phase, building on the outstanding work Deborah Jakubs has done throughout her tenure in this role.” Salem’s appointment follows a nationwide search chaired by Patrick Charbonneau, professor of chemistry and physics, and a committee of faculty, staff, and representatives of the Library Advisory Board and Duke student body. “I am grateful to the search committee for their diligent and committed work, and also to Patrick for his outstanding leadership,” Kornbluth said. “Joe’s planning and visioning experience will be particularly helpful in keeping Duke University Libraries at the vanguard of university library systems,” said Charbonneau. “I’m glad he is joining us at Duke, and I especially look forward to working with him on the Library Council." Salem has published and presented widely on open educational resources, student engagement, teaching and learning, library assessment and library management. He has served as psychometrician on two national information literacy initiatives, Project SAILS (Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills) and the K-12 TRAILS (Tool for Real-Time Assessment of Information Literacy Skills). Salem is active in library affairs on the national level, chairing the Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Research & Analytics Committee and serving on the Big Ten Academic Alliance (BTAA) Big Collection Steering Committee and Library Director Executive Team. He also served as a leadership fellow of the Association of Research Libraries from 2016 to 2017. Salem earned his Ph.D. in evaluation and measurement, as well as a master’s of library science and master’s in literature and writing from Kent State University. He received his undergraduate degree in English from Cleveland State University. In 2017 he was recognized as the Kent State School of Library and Information Science Alumnus of the Year. Share this story Share this story on facebook Share this story on twitter Share this story on reddit Share this story on linkedin Get this story's permalink Print this story Tagged with Duke University Libraries, Duke Leadership View all tags © 2022 University Communications 614 Chapel Drive, Box 90563, Durham, NC 27708-0563 (919) 684-2823 × Link to this page Copy and paste the URL below to share this page. Select URL Next Story Published May 3, 2022 IN Working@Duke , Campus 3 Ways to Tame Digital Clutter From organizing folders to using data storage options, learn how to keep your files straight Your News Working@Duke View All Series View All Active Tags View Full Tag List University Statements News Topics All Academics Research Arts Medicine Campus Global Athletics Opinion Resources About Us Campus Communication Offices Resources for News Media Subscribe to the Duke News Source Contact Us Duke University Homepage Social www.facebook.com www.twitter.com www.instagram.com www.youtube.com © Copyright 2021 Duke University. All rights reserved.