Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Teaching & Learning Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email ‘Comfort is overrated’ Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch ’84 implores Harvard Law School Class of 2022 to be ‘the change we have been waiting for’ By Rachel Reed/HLS News Staff, May 26, 2022 Credit: Martha Stewart “Discomfort is not the enemy. Discomfort is the spur towards change. Discomfort is the push towards greatness,” said Hon. Loretta E. Lynch ’84, the 83rd Attorney General of the United States, during her remarks at Harvard Law School’s Class Day celebration Wednesday. “Harvard Law School Class of 2022, you are the change we have been waiting for,” she declared, before adding “But no pressure.” Lynch, who was a United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York before overseeing the U.S. Department of Justice between 2015 and 2017 under President Barack Obama ’91, was selected as the Class Day speaker by the graduating students’ class marshals. After an introduction by Aiyanna Zakiya Sanders ’22, Lynch, a partner at Paul, Weiss in New York City, encouraged the 833 members of the Class of 2022 to embrace the unique personal and legal skills they had gained from attending Harvard Law over the last three years to make positive change in the world. Lynch began her remarks by acknowledging the horrifying events of the previous day, during which a gunman had killed 19 schoolchildren and two teachers in Uvalde, Texas. “As we focus on this tragic loss, let us also focus on action to deal with the curse of violence that seems to hang over us,” she said. Lynch added that she could “think of no better group to see this issue from all sides as you have been taught here at this law school, and work to save us from this darkness.” Lynch also recognized the pandemic’s impact on the Class of 2022, commending the students’ perseverance in their classes, journals, and clinics nonetheless – including as members of the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau, which she called her “2L home.” You have developed a resilience the depths of which you have yet to plumb. Because of this experience, said Lynch, “You have developed a resilience the depths of which you have yet to plumb, and a resolve you did not have before, the strength of which will surprise you when you begin to draw down upon it.” These assets would be necessary in the days and months ahead, because “to say that you are graduating into challenging times is in fact to utter a profound understatement,” she said. Beyond the pandemic, the murder of George Floyd in 2020 exactly two years prior was, Lynch said, a “rebuke to our efforts,” at police reform and justice more broadly, and a tragedy that led to an international “outpouring of rage and pain.” The subsequent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery were, she said, “further symbols of our country’s refusal – and I use that word deliberately, as this is a choice that is made over and over again – not to deal with the original sin that begat the systemic racism woven into the fabric of our society.” And despite the worldwide protests and activism spurred by the killings, Lynch warned of more recent backsliding from the rule of law both at home and abroad. “We see a world where authoritarianism seeks to rise again,” she said, pointing to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine or, in the U.S., the impending “reversal of the individual’s right to make one of the most private and consequential decisions of their lives on their own.” These issues require serious discussion of uncomfortable truths about the present and past, even if they are difficult, she said. “We can conquer space, we can work with subatomic particles, we can cure broad groups of cancers, but we cannot handle discomfort?” she asked. “Where did this … desire to be the ‘snowflakes’ of the world come from?” Reject comfort for comfort’s sake, she implored the graduates. “Comfort is overrated. … You didn’t come here to be comfortable.” We need emissaries of the law to reach across our aisles of disagreement. “You came here to make a difference,” Lynch continued, adding that the law – “the instrument of change great and small for generations” – is one way to do so. Lawyers can also help bridge divides, she said. “We talk at each other and not with each other, and when we don’t achieve instant agreement, we decry each other’s intelligence or patriotism – or even humanity. … Now more than ever, we need emissaries of the law to reach across our aisles of disagreement and connect with the different sides of our debate.” Harness your Harvard Law degrees and networks to be advocates, Lynch told the Class of 2022. “The price of freedom is constant vigilance. This price falls to everyone, and now it is now our turn.” What matters most, she explained, is not a fancy corner office or a big salary. “It is not the title you will eventually hold, but the people you touch, that will make the biggest difference,” Lynch said. “Not just in this world, but in your life.” Read more: Harvard Law School celebrates the Class of 2022 Topics: Administrative Law, Civil Rights, Criminal, Public Policy Tags: Editor's Pick, Commencement 2022 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.