Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today New Experimental Sciences Building II Expands University's Research Potential Glenys Young October 3, 2019 (VIDEO) The 117,000-square-foot facility is officially open, following today’s ribbon cutting. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Administrators from Texas Tech University and the Texas Tech University System officially opened Experimental Sciences Building II (ESB II), significantly expanding the university's research capabilities, with a ribbon-cutting ceremony today (Oct. 3). The 117,000-square-foot building includes an animal vivarium, four general wet labs, three instrumentation labs and two synthetic labs, in addition to offices, collaborative spaces and three conference rooms. Its construction was funded by $70 million from the Texas Legislature's authorization of a tuition revenue bond and $7 million in revenue finance system funds to be repaid by Higher Education Assistance Funds. "Thirteen years ago, the first Experimental Sciences Building opened on campus, providing an environment that helped to advance our research," said Lawrence Schovanec, Texas Tech president. "ESB II is a world-class facility that represents our continued investment in research that promotes collaboration between faculty, students and industry partners." The goal of ESB II is to increase Texas Tech's research capacity by: Developing and expanding research areas that align with the university's existing strengths and address areas of national importance, Increasing the number of faculty with common interests within each research area who can collaborate on large-scale projects, and Expanding research infrastructure to support thematic research areas. ESB II contains collaborative research laboratories and expanded state-of-the-art small-animal research facilities. Research interests in ESB II will represent the College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources, the College of Arts & Sciences, the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering and the College of Human Sciences. "ESB II is a wonderful and much-needed addition to the research buildings serving students and faculty on the Texas Tech campus," said Joseph A. Heppert, vice president for research and innovation. "The building will provide state-of-the-art laboratory space for researchers conducting modern chemical and life-science research. The modern environmental controls and support facilities incorporated in the building design will enable scientific research on new materials to treat human diseases, such as cancer and HIV; genomic diversity in plant and animal populations; technologies to generate more resilient strains of crop plants; and strategies for enhancing human metabolic health. "This facility helps fill a growing need for modern spaces to support the internationally recognized research conducted by Texas Tech students, staff and faculty. Texas Tech's status as a top-tier Carnegie Very High Research Activity University will greatly benefit from this new facility." The $77-million building was designed by TreanorHL architects, with exterior façade and interior finish design by AyersSaintGross. The project's landscape architect, Prairie Workshop LLC, has previously worked on a number of other Texas Tech projects, including Jones AT&T Stadium, the National Ranching Heritage Center and the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Memorial Garden. Flintco, LLC, completed the construction of the facility and grounds. As part of the Texas Tech University System's Public Art Program, 1% of the total construction cost of each new building on campus goes toward the commission of a public artwork for that building. "Oblique Intersection" by Lead Pencil Studio is a 37-feet-by-26-feet-by-4-feet, steel 3D drawing in space, using recognizable building elements within the context of an imaginary courtyard. Using green space as the plaza, the sculptural form is rendered on the ground through the sun's sweeping shadows. Together the topography, form and shadows will combine to influence student movement throughout the seasons. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, College of Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering, Feature Stories, President, Research, Stories, TTU Features, Vice President for Research, Videos, college of human sciences, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:00 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index