Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The University of Kansas Search form Search this site Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Menu Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Search Search form Search this site Home KU Pharmacy earns Healthier Together Award from Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Contact Brad Stauffer School of Pharmacy bradley.stauffer@ku.edu KU Pharmacy earns Healthier Together Award from Lawrence Douglas County Public Health Thu, 04/28/2022 LAWRENCE — For its active role in countywide COVID-19 vaccine clinics, the University of Kansas School of Pharmacy has been honored with the Healthier Together Award from Lawrence Douglas County Public Health. KU Pharmacy students, alumni and faculty helped administer more than 50,000 vaccines in the past year in Douglas County and thousands more across the state. “We will always be grateful to the KU School of Pharmacy as a shining example of the groundswell of community support that enabled our drive-through clinics to vaccinate tens of thousands of people in just a few months. It was humbling to witness their early and persistent presence. Their contribution to our success cannot be overstated,” said LDCPH Director Dan Partridge. With the award comes a $200 check that is being donated to the KU Medical Center’s JayDoc Free Clinic, where KU Pharmacy students and faculty frequently volunteer. Associate Dean Joe Heidrick accepted the award on behalf of the School of Pharmacy. “We are so proud to accept this award on behalf of the many School of Pharmacy students, alums and faculty members who volunteered their time to help keep our fellow Kansans healthy during the pandemic,” Heidrick said. “The School of Pharmacy has a long history of serving the community and giving students practical experience as they train to serve the needs of their future communities.” The University of Kansas is a major comprehensive research and teaching university. The university's mission is to lift students and society by educating leaders, building healthy communities and making discoveries that change the world. The KU News Service is the central public relations office for the Lawrence campus. kunews@ku.edu | 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Suite 37, Lawrence, KS 66045 Hometown news Graduation and honor rolls KU News Service podcast KU researchers share their expertise on today's most pressing topics, including COVID-19. Search all KU News Search All KU News Search options » Subscribe to KU Today KU in the news The Washington Post — Tue, 05/24/2022 Americans aren’t asking for transgender sports bans. So why pass them? The Economist — Mon, 05/23/2022 Politicians have long told the poor that they’re not doing poverty right “There are as many coaching cues as there are coaches, but there is a lack of scientific literature focused on exam… https://t.co/28dm2j2i0W «» Follow us on Twitter » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » KU Today Contact The University of Kansas 785-864-2700 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Foursquare Pintrest All social media at KU » Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Contacts CMS Login Giving Jobs Maps