Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Stories Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine to Announce Achieving Most Significant Milestone George Watson September 21, 2020 A news conference for the announcement will be held Tuesday (Sept. 22) on the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center-Amarillo campus. ATTENTION MEDIA: The news conference will be broadcast live via http://www.ttu.edu/livestream/. Those unable to attend may schedule phone interviews with School of Veterinary Medicine Dean Guy Loneragan and President Lawrence Schovanec immediately afterward. To schedule, please contact George Watson (george.watson@ttu.edu) in advance. WHAT: Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine announcement WHEN: 2 p.m. Tuesday (Sept. 22) WHERE: Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at Amarillo SiMCentral building (north side of TTUHSC campus). The announcement will take place on the west side of the SiMCentral building adjacent to the construction site of the School of Veterinary Medicine. Media unable to attend in person may join via the following link: http://www.ttu.edu/livestream/. EVENT: Texas Tech University System Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, Texas Tech University President Lawrence Schovanec Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Dean Guy Loneragan and Amarillo Mayor Ginger Nelson will announce achieving a significant milestone for the School of Veterinary Medicine, which is located adjacent to the TTUHSC at Amarillo campus. An initiative that was announced in December 2015, the School of Veterinary Medicine has received support from both communities, veterinarians and so many others from across Texas as well as the Texas Legislature and administration. Ground was broken on the site of the school in September 2019 and construction is on schedule. The school will welcome its very first class of veterinary students in the fall of 2021. CONTACT: Guy H. Loneragan Dean, Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine guy.loneragan@ttu.edu (806) 834-1291 Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: News Releases, Veterinary School, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:17 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index