Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Faculty Scholarship Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences By HLS News Staff, May 10, 2022 Professor Guy-Uriel E. Charles, the Charles Ogletree, Jr. Professor of Law at Harvard, has been elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. One of the nation’s most prestigious honorary societies and a leading center for independent policy research, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences honors exceptional individuals and leadership in academia, the arts, industry, public policy, and research. In addition to Charles, this year’s 261 newly elected members include 15 Harvard University faculty, and Harvard Law alums Yale Law Professor Justin Driver ’04, Stanford Law Professor, Emeritus, Robert Gordon ’71 and Penn Law Professor Dorothy Roberts ’80. New members will be inducted at a ceremony later this year. A leading expert on race, politics, and election law, Charles joined the Harvard Law faculty in 2021. He serves as faculty director of Harvard Law School’s Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice and is the inaugural chair holder of a professorship named in honor of Harvard Law Professor Charles J. Ogletree, Jr. ’78, who taught at the law school for more than three decades during which he dedicated his career to racial equality and social justice. “We are celebrating a depth of achievements in a breadth of areas,” said David Oxtoby, president of the American Academy. “These individuals excel in ways that excite us and inspire us at a time when recognizing excellence, commending expertise, and working toward the common good is absolutely essential to realizing a better future.” Charles teaches and writes about election law, race and law, constitutional law, and civil procedure. He is the co-author of two leading casebooks, “Racial Justice and Law” and “Election Law in the American Political System.” In addition, he is the author of two edited volumes, “Race, Reform, and Regulation of the Electoral Process: Recurring Puzzles in American Democracy” and “The New Black: What Has Changed—and What Has Not—with Race in America,” co-written with Harvard Law School Professor Kenneth Mack ’91. He is currently working on a book with Luis Fuentes-Rohwer, a professor at Indiana University, Bloomington, on the past and future of voting rights, titled “The American Promise: Rethinking Voting Rights Law and Policy for a Divided America.” Charles previously taught at Duke University School of Law, where he co-founded the Center on Law, Race and Politics. He joined Duke in 2009, was named the Charles S. Rhyne Professor of Law in 2012, and, in 2017, the Edward and Ellen Schwarzman Professor of Law. He also received Duke Law School’s Distinguished Teaching Award in 2016. Prior to Duke, from 2000 to 2009, he taught at the University of Minnesota Law School, where he served as the Russell M. and Elizabeth M. Bennett Professor of Law and as the interim co-dean from 2006 to 2008. At Minnesota, he was named the Stanley V. Kinyon Teacher of the Year for 2002–2003. During the 2018–2019 academic year, Charles was the Bennett Boskey Visiting Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, where he taught Civil Procedure, Race and Federalism, and Racial Justice and Law. He was awarded Harvard Law School’s Student Government Teaching and Advising Award, which recognizes both exemplary instruction and the ability of an instructor to inspire personal and intellectual development outside the classroom. He received his J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School and clerked for The Honorable Damon J. Keith of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. While at the University of Michigan, he was the founder and first editor-in-chief of the Michigan Journal of Race & Law. From 1995 to 2000, he was a graduate student in political science at the University of Michigan. Based in Cambridge, Mass., the American Academy of Arts & Sciences was founded in 1780 by John Adams, James Bowdoin, and others who believed the new republic should honor exceptionally accomplished individuals and engage them in advancing the public good. Other members of the Harvard Law faculty who have been selected as fellows in previous years, include: David J. Barron ’94, Lucian Bebchuk LL.M. ’80 S.J.D. ’84, Tomiko Brown-Nagin, Victor Brudney, Robert Clark ’72, Richard Fallon, Noah Feldman, Roger Fisher LL.B. ’48, Jody Freeman LL.M. ’91 S.J.D. ’95, Charles Fried, Nancy Gertner, Mary Ann Glendon, Jack Goldsmith, Annette Gordon-Reed ’84, Charles Haar LL.B. ’48, Morton Horwitz LL.B. ’67, Vicki Jackson, Elena Kagan ’86, Benjamin Kaplan, Louis Kaplow ’81, Duncan Kennedy, Randall Kennedy, Michael Klarman, John F. Manning ’85, Daniel Meltzer ’75, Frank Michelman LL.B. ’60, Martha Minow, Robert Mnookin LL.B. ’68, Gerald L. Neuman ’80, Mark Roe ’75, Steven Shavell, William Stuntz , Cass Sunstein ’78, Laurence Tribe ’66, Mark Tushnet, Roberto Mangabeira Unger LL.M. ’70 S.J.D. ’76, Adrian Vermeule ’93, Elizabeth Warren, David Wilkins ’80 and Jonathan Zittrain ’95. Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Election Law People: Kenneth Mack, John F. Manning, Guy-Uriel Charles Tags: Editor's Pick Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.