Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Analytical Chemist Joins Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine George Watson September 9, 2021 Jonathan Thompson joins the School and will empower faculty to answer the most pressing research questions in animal health. Chemistry helps explain the mysteries of our world. It takes a special mind and years of study to unravel just some secrets. Jonathan Thompson has the deep subject matter expertise and the passion to explore the complexities of our world as they relate to human, animal and ecosystem health. His area of study is analytical chemistry, which is a specialization in making measurements of the chemical components within complex samples and environments. Having animals of his own, Thompson knows how important animals are to our society, whether it's providing companionship or food. After years of scholarship in general chemistry, analytical chemistry and organic chemistry across four different universities, Thompson realized he wanted to take his career a step further. He wanted to combine the two things he loves most: analytical chemistry and animals. This led him to become interested in developing and applying advanced analytical tools to better understand the onset and diagnosis of diseased states in animals. “Any progress we can offer in diagnosis or treatment regimens by applying modern research tools, our experience and knowledge to help animals' well-being is time well-spent,” Thompson said. Now he joins the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine (SVM) in Amarillo as an associate professor of analytical chemistry. He began on Sept. 1. “I'm incredibly excited to get started in Amarillo among such a diverse and knowledgeable group of faculty, staff and talented students,” Thompson said. “My skill set in chemical analysis will help empower the faculty to answer pressing research questions in animal health in a collaborative fashion.” Thompson brings his expertise to work hand in hand with other SVM faculty and staff members, and students on their research projects. Together they will collaborate to undertake transformative scholarship that will benefit animal well-being as well as human and ecosystem health. Even before he started, Thompson collaborated this summer with SVM faculty on developing novel, safe and effective supplements to improve performance and animal health. “Scholarship is at the core of every cutting edge medical program,” said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. “Scholarship helps us be better teachers, it improves the practice of veterinary medicine, and it benefits society. Dr. Thompson's skillset enables our School to undertake exploration of deep scholarly questions. The outcomes of which will benefit animal, human, and ecosystem health – a truly One Health benefit.” Thompson joins the SVM with a wealth of chemistry knowledge and experience. He spent the past 13 years as an associate professor of chemistry at Texas Tech University, conducting scientific research and teaching courses in graduate and undergraduate analytical and general chemistry. Before that, he was an associate and assistant professor of chemistry for four years at the University of Nebraska at Kearney. He earned his Bachelor of Science in Chemistry at Troy State University and received his Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy at the University of Florida. Thompson leads by exemplifying grit and integrity throughout his distinguished career. He has earned numerous honors and awards and has collaborated with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and U.S. Department of State as well as faculty members from seven different universities on various projects. He also serves as a reviewer for the National Science Foundation (NSF), Natural Environmental Research Council (NERC), and a host of academic journals. “We are very fortunate to have Dr. Thompson establishing an analytical facility for the School,” said Thu ‘Annelise' Nguyen, associate dean for research and professor of toxicology. “It is critical that veterinary researchers have the accessibility to valuate the quality of medicines, food, or any chemicals in their journey of innovation and discovery.” Thompson joins a growing and vibrant team of faculty and staff at the SVM. The school welcomed its first class in August and Thompson is thrilled to begin working with faculty and students to help them make new research discoveries that will benefit Texas, the nation and the world. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation, from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE). The inaugural class started in August 2021. The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with deep life experiences in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. tags: Academics, Faculty, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry in the College of Arts and Sciences offers six degree programs for undergraduate and graduate students. Students seeking graduate degrees may specialize in the traditional fields of Chemistry and Biochemistry, as well as many interdisciplinary areas including analytical, inorganic, organic, physical, or theoretical chemistry; chemical education; chemical physics; or biochemistry. Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:31 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index