Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Student Spotlights Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Engaging in good faith discussion Federalist Society President Jacob Richards reflects on his right-of-center experience at Harvard Law By Brett Milano/HLS Correspondent, April 27, 2022 Credit: Lorin Granger Jacob Richards ’22 Graduating Harvard Law School student Jacob Richards ’22 says he’s been pleased with how well his conservative perspective has been accepted by colleagues across campus over the past three years. “I came into law school wondering if I’d get shunned for voicing conservative views,” said Richards, president of the Harvard Federalist Society. “Instead, I’ve found that most of my peers are eager and willing to engage in good faith discussion of hard issues. And the size and strength of the conservative network at HLS means that right-of-center students don’t feel socially isolated here like they might at smaller schools.” The first law student in his family, Richards was raised in Phoenix and grew up admiring Arizona Republicans like former Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake, who fell somewhat outside the conservative mainstream. And he learned at an early age to appreciate a bit of spirited political discourse. “I grew up in a generic Fox News watching household, and my best friend grew up in a generic MSNBC household,” he recalled. “And I remember as early as the 2004 election — when I was in fourth grade — we were basically both recycling talking points in our silly, lower grade school way. But it was through these conversations I’d have, with friends who grew up in a different bubble from mine, that I took an interest in following current events.” This interest strengthened when he attended Arizona Christian University on a partial golf scholarship. There he was a Ronald Reagan Policy fellow at the Goldwater Institute, and also worked as a Koch Summer fellow at the Independent Institute in Oakland, California. Initially, Richards considered pursuing graduate studies in political science. “I thought I’d land a good teaching job if I was lucky,” he said. “But I’d be divorced from the day-to-day life of normal people — but if I went to law school, I could pursue my interests in a tangible way that would have real world import.” After graduating he worked in the Arizona attorney general’s office as a legal analyst. “That was where it solidified for me that law school was the move to make, and HLS was always my dream school.” In leading the Federalist Society at Harvard, he’s tried to keep it open to different viewpoints, since his own isn’t by-the-book conservative. “I’d call myself a classical liberal. I dropped my party affiliation in 2016, and I’m no fan of the 45th President. But I’m very committed to textualism and originalism, and so I have common ground with my conservative friends on campus whose partisan commitments I don’t share. I’ve tried to keep it a big tent. I’d say there is less pressure at Harvard to adhere to a particular orthodoxy than there might be at a smaller school — where to be an outspoken conservative, you might have to be a devoted fan of the Trump administration or the populist turn.” It’s been an encouraging sign for me that cross-partisan friendships are still possible, even in a pretty contentious era and at a time when people arrive with pretty strong identities. He’s welcomed the chance to butt heads with more liberal classmates as well. “During my 1L year, I was in a section with a lot of people with D.C. or state political experience, and you’d think that might have led to hostility in the classroom. But our section leader, Professor [Jim] Greiner did a really good job of building community, encouraging us to get to know each other as people before we got into partisan perspectives. That’s been an encouraging sign for me that cross-partisan friendships are still possible, even in a pretty contentious era and at a time when people arrive with pretty strong identities.” One highlight of his tenure was a debate that the Federalist Society hosted last fall between Professors Noah Feldman and Stephen Sachs at Austin Hall. “To me that was Fed Soc at its best. We had lively Q&A, hundreds of students from all different political persuasions attending. And it was a nice return to some semblance of normalcy after the year of Zoom.” High on his list of important Harvard Law mentors would be Professor Jack Goldsmith, whom he refers to as a national treasure. “Despite being the busiest man I’ve ever met, he invests so much time in dozens of students each year. He’s admired by both sides of the aisle for his principled government service — a tremendous role model for conservative students who want to serve in government but who do not want to be partisan pawns.” Also influential was a First Amendment class he took with Professor Charles Fried. “It’s been really special to get to know someone who is, I think it’s fair to say, a living legend in the law. He’s just a repository of war stories — playing poker with the [Supreme Court] justices and all that inside baseball that he weaves into the class.” Richards says he’s also appreciated working with visiting professors, naming Utah Supreme Court Justice Thomas Lee and Judges Raymond Kethledge, Margaret Ryan, and Liam Hardy in particular. His immediate plan after graduation is to clerk for Judge Patrick J. Bumatay ’06 on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Following that, he expects to return to the East Coast and enter private practice. “But my plan is for that to be short term. I would love to end up in a state solicitor general’s office or in a federal agency litigating on behalf of the government.” As for pursuing a long-term career in government, he says that depends partly on the Republican party heading in a less populist direction — something he admits is by no means assured at this point. “I think I’m more optimistic having met so many bright law students at Harvard and at other schools who are in it for the right reasons and who won’t compromise their principles for short-term career gain,” he said. “I’m not optimistic about the next couple of election cycles. But I think long term, there are enough good people coming through the ranks that will take seriously their professed commitments to the rule of law and limited government — which will eventually win the day, even if we’re in an uncertain era right now.” People: Noah Feldman, Charles Fried, Jack Goldsmith, Jim Greiner, Stephen Sachs Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Federalist Society Tags: Editor's Pick, Commencement 2022 Further Reading: ‘I felt so strongly that this was the right place’ Back to school Championing the underdog Family ties ‘I was able to feel like I was making an impact’ A focus on empowerment Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.