Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Startup Mania: Teams Compete for $225,000 Kathryn Dankesreiter March 28, 2022 Lubbock’s new ventures will vie for a place in the 2022-2023 Texas Tech Accelerator. Startups get a leg up at Texas Tech University's Innovation Hub at Research Park. The Texas Tech Accelerator program provides a big boost to local startups and nonprofits launching new ventures to success. Fifteen startups have been selected to participate in sixth cohort, three of which are nonprofit organizations competing in the first-ever Social Innovation Challenge. “I am so inspired by the heart and resilience of these teams competing at such a high level for a spot in our Accelerator, mentored by our community,” said Kimberly Gramm, associate vice president of innovation and entrepreneurship. The Texas Tech Accelerator is designed to help faculty, students and other entrepreneurs in the region launch startup companies or discover licensing opportunities based on inventions of university technology to make an impact to benefit the people in this community and around the world. Participation in the Texas Tech Accelerator is based on a competitive application process. Each team of entrepreneurs receives a $25,000 seed grant. Startups will learn the Lean Launch program, have access to a dedicated team of iTTU Mentors and one year of collaborative workspace in the Texas Tech Innovation Hub's Base Camp. The program is made possible with the generous support of the Lubbock Economic Development Alliance. The public is invited to attend the competition from 9 a.m. to noon Friday (April 1) at the Innovation Hub, 3911 Fourth St. Following the competition, the public is invited to attend a social from 5-6:30 p.m. at the Buddy Holly Hall of Performing Arts and Sciences, 1300 Mac Davis Lane, to see which startups will be awarded funding and accepted into the Texas Tech Accelerator program. 2022 Texas Tech Accelerator competitors 3 CulinaryMed Doc: A software program consisting of culinary medicine videos for conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and more that will be delivered directly to the patient via an app equipped with machine learning that will customize recipes, meal plans and nutrition education for each person to help them manage their chronic disease nutritionally. Team: Allison Childress and Shannon Galyean, both assistant professors in the Department of Nutritional Sciences, and Michelle Alcorn, an assistant professor in the Department of Hospitality and Retail Management. AlvMat: A smart-breathing window that can automatically detect indoor-outdoor air quality and initiate air exchange to improve it by pumping air in and out 24/7 without any human intervention. Team: Wei Li, an associate professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering, and Shakil Shimul, a doctoral candidate in the College of Architecture. Amie Health: A digital health platform and artificial intelligence chatbot helping individuals with invisible and chronic illnesses thrive at work. Founder: Margaret Melville BlueVerse: The world's largest data platform that owns no data. Team: Alec Hernandez, Mason Still, Taylor Brewster, Drew Pickens, all Texas Tech students. FloCard: A technology that enables automotive dealerships to introduce face-to-face traffic into customer relationship management systems via digital business cards. Team: Javien Thompson, Emanuel Krinkey, Christian Valadez, Seathan Schiller and Tae Thompson. G&G Ranch: Crop-canopy netting kits that enable West Texas farmers to grow organically with less time and resources. Team: Gabrielle Hale, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Plant and Soil Science, and Gary Hale HiPR Innovations: A technology focused on developing solutions to prevent pressure ulcer development. Team: Krishan Sachdev, a student in the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center (TTUHSC) School of Medicine, and Koushalya Sachdev, Samuel Zhang and David Chun. Local LBK: A platform that develops new models of community and economic development through technology and collaboration. Team: Taylor McAlpine, community member. MYDBrain: A platform that applies deep technologies to the health care industry. Team: Kyle Springer, a TTUHSC student in the School of Health Professions, and Bre Ward. StarKrug: A company that develops innovative medical technologies to improve the lives of people with disabilities. Team: Ian Stark and Baxter Krug, both doctoral students in technical communication. Rapid Molecular Diagnostics: A technology that initially seeks to provide rapid testing of emergency patients for urgent health care providers. Team: Matthew Maale, Gregory Tobin, Gerhard Maale, John Randall and Taralyn Wiggin, community members. Vino Polish: Mobile crossflow filtration services for the beverage Industry, particularly wineries, cideries and meaderies. Team: Michael Hellman, Texas Tech alumnus. 2022 Social Innovation Challenge competitors Innovative Guidance, Entrepreneurship & Outreach Center: Its mission is to empower marginalized communities through accountability and entrepreneurship. Founder: Jaafar Abdullah East Lubbock Art House: A nonprofit arts organization dedicated to a cultural playground for the arts and activism. Founder: Danielle East East Lubbock Resident Owned Business Initiative: A six-week pre-apprenticeship program to help young people learn a skilled trade, career readiness and financial literacy to get them on a pathway to success. Founder: Reggie Dial Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Innovation Hub, Research, Stories, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Innovation Hub at Research Park This 40,000-square-foot facility is designed to be a resource for the faculty and students of both Texas Tech and the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center as well as community members interested in launching new ventures. Texas Tech is a national research university, and the Innovation Hub at Research Park is critical to building the knowledge-based economy of West Texas through the development of innovators and entrepreneurs who solve society's problems and develop innovations to make impact. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Innovation Hub at Research Park is located at 3911 4th Street, Lubbock, TX, just west of the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. Twitter Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 28, 2022 10:14 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index