Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Welcomes Inaugural Class With Special Guests Weston Brooks August 6, 2021 Four special guest speakers will help welcome the new class to Amarillo Campus and Mariposa Station during orientation. WHAT: Amarillo Mayor Ginger Nelson, Texas Tech University President Lawrence Schovanec, Provost Ronald Hendrick and former provost Michael Galyean will address students and faculty at the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine's (SVM) student orientation. WHEN: Thursday (Aug. 12) WHERE: The speeches for Mayor Nelson, President Schovanec, Provost Hendrick and former provost Galyean at Amarillo Campus, 7671 Evans Drive, will conclude at 12:20 p.m.. The media will have a chance to interview Mayor Nelson, Dean Guy Loneragan and President Schovanec immediately afterward in the auditorium. Media will not be allowed to film speeches to the students. EVENT: What is student orientation without important guest speakers? Especially, when this has been 50 years in the making and Texas Tech finally welcomes its inaugural veterinary class of 2025. The Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine has planned an entire week of activities during orientation that will keep the students, faculty and staff busy. Thursday provides an opportunity to hear from Texas Tech and city leaders. They will share how these students will make a difference for Texas Tech, the community, the region, the state, the nation and the world. It is an exciting time for Texas Tech and the Amarillo community. No students will be available for interviews at this time. Weston Brooks, SVM media and communications director, will provide any required footage upon request. Due to the rise in COVID-19 cases, media covering the event are asked to take extra precautions while interviewing the mayor, president, and/or dean. Masks are not required but are encouraged. Also, due to COVID-19, this event could change at any moment. Please contact Weston Brooks for any questions or updates related to the event next Thursday. Media relations specialist: Weston Brooks Director, Media and Communications, Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine wesbrook@ttu.edu (806) 834-8323 Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: News Releases, Veterinary School, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:30 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index