Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 HLS 200 Convening for the common good At HLS in the Community, hundreds gather to share ideas, work toward solutions, and celebrate the community's numerous contributions around the world May 2, 2018 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Credit: Heratch Ekmekjian Around the world, Harvard Law School alumni, students, faculty, and staff are using their skills and talents to transform communities. On April 20, hundreds of them gathered at Harvard Law School to take a closer look at the school’s local and global contributions of service during HLS in the Community, the final installment in the series of events held throughout the 2017-2018 academic year in celebration of the school’s bicentennial. Throughout the day, attendees were able to take part in problem-solving hackathons and attend faculty-led workshops and sessions that focused on criminal justice reform, international human rights advocacy, small business and entrepreneur support, among many other subjects. In the evening, guests were given the opportunity to interact with representatives from HLS clinics and programs at a clinical showcase and celebration, placing on display the school’s deep involvement in advocacy, policy, and commitment to student practice and pro bono legal services. Here are highlights from HLS in the Community. Blue sky thinking and beyond at Harvard Law hackathons In the technology world, a hackathon is well known as a get-together of programmers to share ideas and create software. As part of the “HLS in the Community” bicentennial event, HLS brought the hackathon concept to the legal space. Instead of writing code, alumni and other professionals worked together on April 20 to hack out legal solutions to social and political issues. Read the full story Credit: Martha Stewart. Credit: Martha Stewart. Credit: Tony Rinaldo. Credit: Martha Stewart. + 3 More » GALLERY: HLS200 finale celebrates clinics HLS200 finale celebrates clinics VIDEO: HLS in the Community The HLS in the Community event featured a number of sessions on topics ranging from disability rights to access to justice to artificial intelligence. Video from the event sessions is available below, or on the Harvard Law School YouTube channel. For full session descriptions, visit 200.hls.harvard.edu/events/hls-in-the-community/ *** Celebrating Harvard Law School’s Bicentennial HLS in the Arts, HLS in the World In September 2017, Harvard Law School showcased the talents of faculty, staff, and alums at HLS in the Arts, a jam-packed bicentennial event celebrating the extraordinary creativity of the law school community. HLS celebrates connection to the arts In October 2017, Harvard Law School hosted HLS in the World, a wide-ranging summit that gathered dozens of experts to address hard questions about the contributions of law and legal education in tackling crucial issues of justice and human welfare in local communities, the U.S., and around the world. HLS in the World: Harvard Law School’s Bicentennial Summit Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Topics: Civil Rights, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International, Legal History, Public Service Tags: Spotlight, HLS 200 Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.