Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Teaching & Learning Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ At Harvard Law School, family members share thoughts on Commencement By Rebecca Bakken/HLS News Staff, May 29, 2022 A jubilant Class of 2022 and their proud families celebrated their long-awaited in-person commencement ceremony at Harvard Law School on Thursday, May 25. With faculty, friends, and family looking on, the graduating J.D., LL.M., and S.J.D. students processed across Holmes Field to receive their diplomas. Harvard Law Today caught up with a few family members to hear what the day means to them. Credit: Lorin Granger Federico del Rio Abundis LL.M. ’22 and family Federico del Rio Abundis received his L.L.M. on Thursday and celebrated with his family, including his mother, Martha, and father, Toby, who traveled from Mexico. “It’s a great pride for both myself and my family at large, I feel deeply satisfied,” said Martha, whose delight shown through Federico’s translation. Credit: Lorin Granger Zachary Boulden ’22 with his grandparents Zachary Boulden ’22 had support from his whole family on Commencement Day. “It’s overwhelming and just so exciting,” said his maternal grandmother, Patricia Cockfield, of South Carolina. “This is Zach’s dream since he’s been 12 years old and he made it come true today, and it’s perfect,” said his paternal grandmother, Nancy Boulden, of Delaware. Credit: Lorin Granger L-R: Aishat Okesola LL.M. ’22 and Ezomime Onimiya LL.M. ‘22 with their families Ezomime Onimiya, LL.M. ’22, from Nigeria, celebrated with friends and family on Thursday. “I’m so happy. It’s like butterflies flying in my tummy, I’m so happy and joyful,” said her mother, Angela Onidiya. “Today’s a very wonderful day. We are glad we are alive to witness it,” said Onimiya’s father, Gbenga Onidiya. Credit: Lorin Granger Jenna Becker ’22 and family Jenna Becker received her J.D. on Thursday, a feat she accomplished while having her baby, Remy — with a little help from her mom. “It’s been quite a time,” said her mother, J.J. Henricksen, of Wisconsin. “With the baby, and also of course because of the pandemic, but it’s amazing she was able to do this.” “It’s hard to imagine 30 years ago we’d be standing here with our daughter. We’re very proud. It’s hard to describe in words,” said her father, Andrew Becker. Credit: Lorin Granger Maryan Hassan LL.M. ’22 and daughter Sofia Maryan Hassan LL.M. ’22 completed her post-graduate degree as a single mother to her daughter, Sofia. She is the first Black woman to be president of the Harvard International Arbitration Law Students Association and co-founder of the Harvard United Kingdom Student Law Association. Hassan is also an Obama Foundation Leader for Africa. “With my daughter, seeing how she has engaged with everybody here with openness and curiosity has helped me reassert how I view the institution, how I view myself, that I shouldn’t take things too seriously. I think I’ve been allowed to have fun here through her.” Attending a rigorous program of legal studies while raising Sofia had its challenges, but Hassan said several administrators, particularly Dean Catherine Peshkin and Title IX coordinator Sasha Tulgan, were immensely supportive throughout her time at Harvard Law. Credit: Lorin Granger Jessie Dawe ’22 and family Jessie Dawe ’22 traveled every week from Cambridge and Virginia to be with her children, Adelynn, Michael, and also twins Isla and Esme, who were born during her 2L year. “Today marks the culmination of a healing and transformative journey, and, at the same time, it is just the beginning of a beautiful and exciting new chapter. I am here because of family — most especially my children.” “It was stressful, but now that it’s over it’s pretty fun,” said Adelynn of her mom’s Harvard Law journey. “I feel happy she doesn’t have to fly up here every week and she can be down home with us all the time. She’s finally done after three years!” said Michael. Tags: Editor's Pick, Commencement 2022 Further Reading: Highlights of Commencement 2022 Gallery: Harvard Law School Class Day 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.