Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Stories Lifelong Love of Veterinary Industry Drives Newest School of Veterinary Medicine Faculty Member George Watson June 17, 2021 Jennifer Koziol’s childhood background fuels her passion to make a difference in improving bovine health. Throughout her life, in one way or another, Jennifer Koziol has been immersed in large-animal health care. Growing up on her family ranch in Oklahoma, Koziol worked with the local veterinarian to treat both the herd and individual cattle on that ranch. There, as a child, she realized she wanted to become a veterinarian, and at the same time, she also developed a love of science and the cattle industry. Everything since then has driven Koziol to pursue veterinary medicine to help advance the industry and inspire the next generation of veterinarians. That drive brings her to the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo (SVM) as an Associate Professor of Bovine Medicine and Surgery. “I am very excited to join the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine,” Koziol said. “As someone who comes from a rural community, I am passionate about helping mold young veterinarians who can go back and thrive in those communities. The agriculture industry is rapidly changing, as is the veterinary industry, and the demand is strong for food animal veterinarians. It's very exciting to me to focus on putting veterinarians into rural and regional communities and helping them develop and hone skills in food animal medicine, surgery and reproduction that give them the foundation to be successful throughout their entire careers.” Koziol joins the SVM after spending the past five years as a clinical assistant professor of theriogenology and production medicine in the Purdue University College of Medicine's Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences. A board-certified theriogenologist, she is an expert in animal reproduction and has worked in all areas of the beef industry, from cow-calf care to feedlot health. “Dr. Koziol lives our mission to serve rural and regional communities,” said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. “She knows firsthand what makes them tick, and now she will help train students from these communities to make a difference in these communities upon graduation. Her experience and expertise with cattle are so important to what we do. Cattle production has been the lifeblood of Texas and the West for so long. We are thrilled to have Jennifer as part of our wonderful team.” Koziol earned her bachelor's degree (2009) and doctorate in veterinary medicine (2012) from Oklahoma State University and her master's degree from Auburn University in 2016. She entered a year-long internship program in comparative theriogenology at Iowa State University's College of Veterinary Sciences before completing a three-year residency in comparative theriogenology in the Department of Clinical Sciences at Auburn in 2016. She is licensed to practice veterinary medicine in both Oklahoma and Indiana. Koziol is a member of the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA), the American Association of Bovine Practitioners (AABP), the Society for Theriogenologists (SFT), the American College of Theriogenologists (ACT) and the Oklahoma Cattleman's Association. “Dr. Koziol brings strengths in multi-species reproduction, expertise in bull breeding soundness examinations and a defined beef cattle focus,” said John Dascanio, senior associate dean for academic and student affairs. “She has personal ranch experience that will enable her to relate to and expand our student's backgrounds and the mission of the School of Veterinary Medicine. I am really looking forward to having a colleague who has a focus in reproductive teaching and research like myself.” Koziol joins a growing and vibrant team of faculty and staff at the SVM. Additional team members will continue to be added over the next few months as the school prepares to welcome its inaugural class. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE) and is set to welcome its first class of students in August. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to serve rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Faculty, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:28 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index