Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Stories How Will COVID-19 Relief Bill Affect Your Taxes? Here's the Answer. Glenys Young March 12, 2021 Michael Noel is an international expert in economics. Thursday (March 11), President Joe Biden signed into law a sweeping $1.9 trillion COVID-19 economic relief package. Since then, Americans have begun asking what it means for them and, specifically, their tax returns. Early filers have received their refunds already. People who filed a little later have been sitting in limbo, wondering what happens to their projected amounts now that the bill has been signed. College students are unsure if they will finally receive a stimulus, whether it would go to them or their parents, and whether it depends on if their parents claim them as dependents or not. An international economics expert at Texas Tech University is available to explain what the bill means for them. Michael D. Noel is a competition economist and economic expert in the areas of antitrust and mergers, business strategy, labor and employment, and other competition-related matters. Noel has published extensively on competition economics and is perhaps best known for his work on dynamic price competition in the oil and gas industry. He pioneered the now large professional literature on price cycles and price volatility in gasoline markets and is internationally known as a leading competition expert in the industry. Expert Michael D. Noel, professor of economics, michael.noel@ttu.edu Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: COVID-19, College of Arts and Sciences, Experts, Faculty, News Releases Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile College of Arts & Sciences <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Texas Tech University College of Arts & Sciences was founded in 1925 as one of the university's four original colleges. Comprised of 16 departments and more than 400 tenured faculty members, the College offers a wide variety of courses and programs in the humanities, social and behavioral sciences, mathematics and natural sciences. Students can choose from 41 bachelor's degree programs, 34 master's degrees and 14 doctoral programs. With just under 11,000 students enrolled, the College of Arts & Sciences is the largest college on the Texas Tech University campus. In fall 2016, the college embarked upon its first capital campaign, Unmasking Innovation: The Campaign for Arts & Sciences. It focuses on five critical areas of need: attracting and retaining top faculty, enhancing infrastructure, recruiting high-potential students, undergraduate research and growing the Dean's Fund for Excellence. Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:23 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index