Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today TTU K-12 High School Hosts Commencement for Class of 2022 Lucy Greenberg May 19, 2022 Students who have earned their diplomas online will come to walk the stage. WHAT: Texas Tech University High School Commencement Ceremony WHEN: 1 p.m. Saturday (May 21) Doors open at 12:15 p.m. WHERE: McKenzie-Merket Alumni Center 2521 17th Street, Lubbock EVENT: Texas Tech University High School, part of TTU K-12, will host an in-person commencement ceremony. Students across the globe complete graduation requirements throughout the academic year and each spring, TTU K-12 invites them to walk the stage and receive their diploma in an on-campus ceremony. The 2022 commencement speaker will be Genevieve Durham DeCesaro, professor of dance and incoming vice provost for faculty success at Texas Tech. Durham DeCesaro previously served as interim dean of the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts, vice provost for Academic Affairs, associate chair of the School of Theatre & Dance and head of the dance program. Media are invited to attend the event. CONTACT: Leslie Cranford Section Manager, marketing, TTU K-12 Leslie.cranford@ttu.edu (806) 834-5758 Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: News Releases, eLearning, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile TTU K-12 TTU K-12 is an accredited school promoting student success – anytime, anywhere – using innovative online technologies, rigorous and reputable curriculum, excellent state-certified teacher instruction and quality customer service. The fully online school is accredited by the Texas Education Agency (TEA), and the high school courses are approved by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The elementary, middle and high school options meet the same standards as traditional schools, but have no physical location or limitations. Upon graduation, students receive an official Texas high school diploma. Twitter Facebook Instagram What is TTU K-12? J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts at Texas Tech offers a diverse array of programs and courses in art, music, theatre and dance. The college seeks to prepare students who will be leaders in the profession by employing the highest standards in performance, teaching, research, and artistic and creative vision. The college includes the: School of Art School of Music School of Theatre and Dance Fine Arts Doctoral Program Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 16, 2022 1:14 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index