Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Stories Stories Texas Tech Unveils Honors College Residence Hall Amanda Castro-Crist August 9, 2017 (VIDEO) As the newest addition to University Student Housing, the pod-style residence hall will house more than 300 students this fall. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Red Raiders have a new option when it comes to on-campus housing. The Honors Residence Hall, located at 901 Flint Ave. near the Rawls College of Business, opened today (Aug. 9) during a University Student Housing ribbon-cutting. This fall, the hall will be home to 313 incoming freshmen and returning students. Residents will primarily be from the Honors College. Housing managing director Sean Duggan said having much of the residence hall dedicated to the Honors learning community is one more way Texas Tech will be able to recruit and retain students. "The new Honors Hall is a great addition to the Texas Tech campus and an investment in the success of the Honors College," Duggan said. "This residence hall promotes community among scholars, is very convenient to the academic core of the university and is next door to the Rawls College of Business. That convenience, in addition to amenities like a full-service Starbucks and educational and social programs, will assist these students in their academic success." The Honors Residence Hall Construction began Feb. 9, 2016, and took 17 months to complete. The 77,292-square-foot, four-story co-ed residence hall features 153 double and seven single units over four floors. Each room is furnished with a closet, ceiling fan and movable furniture, including desks and chairs, loft beds and chests of drawers. "The Honors Residence Hall reflects Texas Tech's commitment to provide students a great educational experience in a community environment that is conducive to success and learning," said President Lawrence Schovanec. "This new on-campus hall helps address, in an innovative way, student demand for a residential experience." The residence hall is the first pod-style hall on the Texas Tech campus, with rooms clustered around central community bathrooms. Twenty-one private bathrooms also are located throughout the residence hall. The building features four large lounge spaces, including a main lounge on the first floor and a 50-seat multi-purpose room for special group meetings and presentations. Four laundry rooms provide access to free, limitless laundry, and cable TV and wireless internet access are available throughout the residence hall. A full-service Starbucks in the residence hall features outdoor seating and will accept dining bucks. Fifteen study and living room areas are located adjacent to the rooms, allowing residents a place to study and socialize with other students in the Honors College. Honors College Dean Michael San Francisco said, across campus, faculty and staff have realized the importance of dedicating floors in residence halls to specific disciplines or subject areas. Dedicating the new residence hall to Honors College students, who come from different majors, provides an opportunity for those students to interact in unique and productive ways outside the classroom and promotes collaboration and cooperation in learning and problem solving. "The Honors College represents students from all the other colleges on campus, creating an opportunity for blending different academic disciplines," said San Francisco. "Placing students from different disciplines and backgrounds, with varied interests and aspirations, in the same environment provides a cauldron for interdisciplinarity and interaction. This residence hall, with very special learning and interactive spaces, provides nuclei where learning is stimulated and the opportunity for discussion promoted." A landscaped courtyard will feature a public art installation, "Wandering," by artist Marc Fornes, to be installed later this year. The painted-aluminum, structural-shade piece will measure between 16 and 18 feet tall and 50 feet long and draws inspiration from the potential traffic flow patterns in the space. It also is inspired by the Banyan tree, with a large center trunk representing the university and the many flourishing roots representing the students. The piece will change appearance depending on the angle from which it is viewed. Facilities Planning and Construction partnered with Barnes Gromatzky Kosarek Architects, Mackey Mitchell Architects and The Whiting-Turner Contracting Company on the project. This project solution embodies the spirit of our campus by creating a pedestrian-centric park space surrounded by an aesthetic backdrop of Spanish Renaissance detailing," said Michael Molina, vice chancellor of Facilities Planning and Construction. "The interior-scape achieved every level of programmatic expectation and will serve our Honors students for generations. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: TTU Features, Academics, Campus Life, Feature Stories, Honors College, Provost, Stories Honors College <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Honors College at Texas Tech is dedicated to providing students with a broad education that prepares them for a lifetime of learning. Honors Sciences and the Humanities (HSH), formerly known as Honors Arts and Letters (HAL), is a major and minor degree program offered by the Honors College. HSH integrates the seemingly disparate sciences and humanities, instilling critical thinking skills and communication literacy through reading and writing-intensive courses while simultaneously preparing students for STEM-based careers and rigorous post-graduate programs like law and medical school. Within the HSH major, students may choose to pursue degree concentrations in Medicine, Global Health & the Humanities; Humanities Driven STEM; Environmental Science & the Humanities, or Politics, Philosophy, Economics & Law. Twitter Facebook Instagram University Student Housing Texas Tech University Student Housing houses approximately 8,000 students in 13 residence halls, four suite-style halls and one apartment complex. Housing offers rooms with movable and fixed furniture, suite style rooms and apartments for both undergraduate and graduate students. For more information about the different residence halls, visit the University Student Housing website. University Student Housing also is committed to creating a greener campus with its "Guns Up, Green Up!" recycling pledge. Housing encourages students to participate in its sustainability efforts by reducing waste and recycling at the Texas Tech Recycling Center. Twitter Facebook YouTube Flickr Pinterest More Stories Texas Tech University Honors College to Offer Mystery Science Theater Class Student Disability Services Announces Alex C. Watkins Memorial Scholarship Honors College Mentoring Program Impacts Hundreds Of Elementary Students Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 28, 2022 1:39 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index