Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 HLS 200 Celebrating the extraordinary milestone of Harvard Law School’s bicentennial In the Spirit In April, Harvard Law School’s bicentennial programming came to a close with HLS in the Community, a day of hackathons and workshops. The spirit of the clinics infused the event. Harvard Law Bulletin: Summer 2018 Themes: HLS 200 Topics: Clinical Practice, Public Service Convening for the common good Around the world, Harvard Law School alumni, students, faculty, and staff are using their skills and talents to transform communities. On April 20, hundreds of them gathered at HLS to take a closer look at the school’s local and global contributions of service during HLS in the Community, the final installment in the series of events in celebration of the school’s bicentennial. Themes: HLS 200 Topics: Civil Rights, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, International, Legal History, Public Service HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics On April 20, HLS in the Community wrapped up a year-long celebration of Harvard Law School’s bicentennial by highlighting the contributions made by HLS clinics and students practice organizations (SPOs). Themes: Teaching & Learning, HLS 200 Blue sky thinking and beyond at Harvard Law hackathons As part of the “HLS in the Community” bicentennial event, HLS brought the hackathon concept to the legal space. Instead of writing code, alumni and other professionals worked together on April 20 to hack out legal solutions to social and political issues. Themes: Teaching & Learning, HLS 200 Disability, Human Rights, and Information Technology (video) Visiting Professor of Law and Executive Director of the Harvard Law School Project on Disability Michael Ashley Stein ’88 tackled the global issue of equal access to information in his book “Disability, Human Rights, and Information Technology,” co-edited by Jonathan Lazar, professor of Computer and Information Sciences and Director of the Undergraduate Program in Information Systems at Towson University. Themes: Teaching & Learning, HLS 200 Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Cyberlaw, Health Law & Policy, Human Rights A Q&A with Joseph P. Kennedy III, Harvard Legal Aid Bureau alumnus Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy III ’09, who got his start in civil legal aid as a student attorney at HLAB representing tenants in evictions, reflects on how his time as HLAB influenced his advocacy in the legislature, and why it is of utmost importance to safeguard access to counsel for those who cannot afford it. Themes: Alumni Focus, Student Spotlights, HLS 200 Topics: Civil Rights, Clinical Practice, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, Public Service Preview: “HLS in the Community” will celebrate clinics and bicentennial finale On April 20, Harvard Law School will host the third and final major event in its year-long program celebrating 200 years of HLS. HLS in the Community will convene alumni, faculty, students, and staff to explore the extraordinary reach and impact of Harvard lawyers. Themes: Teaching & Learning, HLS 200 Topics: Business, Civil Rights, Clinical Practice, Constitutional, Cyberlaw, Environmental, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, Public Service Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Law Review, Harvard Women's Law Association, Harvard Journal of Law and Gender HLS faculty and staff join in ‘Week of Service’ During Spring Break, Harvard Law School staff and faculty volunteered as part of HLS in the Community Week of Service. Together they contributed over 175 volunteer hours at three local service organizations—Community Servings, Cradles to Crayons, and Daily Table. Themes: HLS 200 Topics: Public Service Two Centuries of Treasures in the Harvard Law School Library: A Bicentennial Exhibit Over the past 200 years, Harvard Law School has built a collection of primary and secondary law unsurpassed by any other academic law library in the world. The library has served as a repository for the papers, photographs and community ephemera that document the school’s history and traditions. In an exhibit at Langdell Hall’s Caspersen Room that runs until June, the library highlights a selection of material that emphasizes the connection between the library’s impressive collection and its community of users. Themes: HLS 200 Topics: Legal History Branch returns to her Navajo roots Ethel Branch ’08 grew up on her family’s ranch with no electricity, no running water, and a long list of questions about injustice. As she grew up, Branch knew she had to address these questions. “That confusion as to why the world changed when you crossed the Navajo Nation boundary line was a driving question for my youth and my life,” says Branch. It propelled her to study law and policy. And three years ago, at age 36, it led her to become Attorney General of the Navajo Nation. Themes: Alumni Focus, HLS 200 Topics: Civil Rights, Environmental, Human Rights, Public Service Loop navigation Page 1 of 5 First Previous 1 2 3 … 5 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.