Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Health Law & Policy Harvard Law School professors call potential abortion rights rollback ‘unprecedented’ The Petrie-Flom Center hosted ‘Roe in limbo: A town hall on the leaked Dobbs opinion.’ Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Constitutional, Ethics, Health Law & Policy, Legal History, Science & Technology HLS Authors: Selected Alumni Books Winter 2022 When Tibor Várady began looking through more than 100 years of files of his family’s law firm in a Serbian city in Eastern Europe, he found not only client information. He uncovered a history of the people of the region during world wars and under control of multiple states. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Health Law & Policy, Human Rights, National and International Security Reassessing Psychedelics As mental illness skyrockets and the development of new medicines stagnates, some are looking to an ancient treatment. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Health Law & Policy, Science & Technology Faculty Books in Brief: Winter 2022 A wide range of books by faculty, from a collection of essays on the ethics of consumer genetic testing to a look at the fate of constitutional institutions in populist regimes to a delightful children’s book by a legal philosopher. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Topics: Constitutional, Ethics, Health Law & Policy, Science & Technology Weighing President Biden’s first year In this series, Harvard Law experts turn a critical eye to the Biden administration’s efforts on health care, the economy, criminal justice reform, and other areas important to Americans — and share their thoughts on its agenda for the future. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Constitutional, Election Law, Environmental, Health Law & Policy Weighing President Biden’s first year: Health care and the pandemic Glenn Cohen and Carmel Shachar reflect on the administration’s successes, failures, and agenda for the future. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Health Law & Policy The obstacles to decriminalizing psychedelic drugs are political, not legal, say experts The new Project on Psychedelics Law and Regulation (POPLAR) at Harvard Law School recently convened a conference on the future of psychedelics law and regulation. Themes: Teaching & Learning, Faculty Scholarship Topics: Health Law & Policy Electric slide Helping key players across Massachusetts — including the City of Boston and environmental nonprofits — reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050 is a focus for the Emmett Environmental Law & Policy Clinic at Harvard Law School. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Environmental, Health Law & Policy, International, Science & Technology Investigating mask mandate bans Michael Ashley Stein ’88, executive director of the Harvard Law School Project on Disability, says the Department of Education should go beyond the Americans with Disabilities Act in investigating state bans against mandating face coverings in schools. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Civil Rights, Constitutional, Disability Law, Family, Gender & Children, Health Law & Policy, Human Rights, Public Service Does Texas’ abortion law presage the end of Roe v. Wade? Harvard Law School’s Shayna Medley explains Texas’s anti-abortion law, why she believes it violates Roe, and what she thinks it could signal for the future of reproductive rights. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Constitutional, Health Law & Policy Loop navigation Page 1 of 27 First Previous 1 2 3 … 27 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.