Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. By John Sarao, Texas A&M University College of Geosciences May 26, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Photo of Io taken on NASA’s Galilleo mission. NASA/JPL/University of Arizona Scientists have known about dune-like structures on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, Io, for some time, but have been unable to reconcile how a planetary body with such a low-density atmosphere could create the classical wind-blown dunes like those observed on Earth. In collaboration with scientists from Rutgers University, University of Oregon, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory at the California Institute of Technology, Ryan Ewing, the Robert R. Berg Professor in Texas A&M University’s Department of Geology and Geophysics, proposed a new model for dune formation in the absence of strong atmospheric winds in a recently published article in Nature Communications. This study attempts to expand scientists’ knowledge of how dunes can form on distant planetary bodies that have vastly different atmospheric conditions than those responsible for dune formation on Earth. “The challenges in interpreting the ridge structures on Io were understanding how wind could be created and how sand could move where almost no atmosphere exists,” Ewing said. “But the lava-frost mechanism to create the flows is an entirely new mechanism for generating dunes.” The lava-frost mechanism proposed by this research team relies on researchers’ knowledge that Io is the most volcanically active body in our solar system. Through mathematical modeling and their understanding of sediment physics, the team has shown that the interaction of Io’s lava flows and the widespread sulfur dioxide frost blanketing its surface can create a dense enough vapor to allow for grain transport and formation of the dune-like features observed from images taken during the 14-year NASA Galileo Mission. “I am certain I will find myself trying to explain observations of dune-like patterns from these worlds as the new data come in,” Ewing said of the upcoming NASA missions to Titan, one of the moon’s of Saturn, and Venus planned over the next several decades. The research this team has conducted on Io will help explain the formation of these features that are present nearly everywhere in our solar system. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares This article by John Sarao originally appeared on the College of Geosciences website. Related Stories Science & Tech Building A Better Spacesuit Researchers are working to enhance the current gas-pressurized suits to make them more accommodating for astronauts exploring planetary surfaces. Science & Tech Giant NASA Telescope To Open New Vistas Of Space About 100 times more powerful than the Hubble, the new James Webb Telescope will show the farthest images of space ever seen, said Texas A&M physicist Nicholas Suntzeff. Science & Tech Analysis Can Predict Individual Differences In Cardiovascular Responses To Altered Gravity Texas A&M researchers have identified factors that can predict a person's physiological responses to gravitational changes. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Health & Environment Texas A&M Health Faculty Rank Among Top 2 Percent Of Scholars Worldwide Twenty-six faculty members appear in Stanford University’s “World’s Top 2% Scientists” list. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Comment Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top