Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law School celebrates the Class of 2022 Commencement News Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ On Commencement Day, Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning ’85 urged the 833 graduating students of the Class of 2022 to use their power as Harvard lawyers to “to make our world better." ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Highlights of Commencement 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ Class Act The Class of 2022 celebrated Class Day outdoors with friends and family, faculty and staff, and special guests. View Gallery Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Kim Wright/HLS Staff Photographer Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart The Class of 2022 reflects Graduating J.D.s and LL.M.s reflect on their law school experience and share their hopes for the future. Student Profiles ‘I felt so strongly that this was the right place’ Jackson Beard ’22 has known she wanted to be a lawyer since she was 14 — and she can recall the exact moment that set her on her path to Harvard Law School and her future career. Back to school During an ‘exciting and gratifying year,’ Dionne Koller Fine LL.M. ’22, a tenured professor of law, became a student again. Championing the underdog William Greenlaw ’22 has his sights set on the ‘least, lost, and left out.’ Family ties Aiga and community inspire J.V. Langkilde, a graduating Harvard Law student from American Samoa. Service comes first A student of international law and public policy — and recently-commissioned Marine Corps officer — Tyler Patrick started planning a life of service when he was a boy. ‘I was able to feel like I was making an impact’ Cara Mund ‘22 hopes to leverage tenacity gained as an advocate — and 2018 Miss America — to influence public policy. Engaging in good faith discussion Federalist Society President Jacob Richards ’22, who describes himself as a classical liberal, appreciates engaging in good faith discussion of hard issues at HLS. A focus on empowerment A social entrepreneur from Nepal, Jesselina Rana LL.M. ’22 focuses on human rights and women’s health. Who are you, ’22? As the Class of 2022 prepared to don regalia, graduating students shared what their time at Harvard Law School meant to them As the Class of 2022 prepares to don regalia, the soon-to-be graduates share what their time at Harvard Law School has meant to them. Continue Reading Continue Reading » ’21 – ’22, in review A look back through the academic year at Harvard Law, in pictures. Parting thoughts Words from the wise Faculty give the gift of knowledge to soon-to-be graduates In their ‘Last Lectures’ to the Class of 2022, Niko Bowie, Molly Brady, Stephanie Robinson, and Jon Hanson shared thoughts and offered advice that ran the gamut from sound to profound — with nods to oysters and surfing along the way. Continue Reading » Celebrating the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Commencement, redux Harvard Law School Classes of 2020 and 2021 return to campus to celebrate with family and friends. ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Elizabeth Warren offered advice and encouragement at a special in-person Commencement celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Harvard Law’s newest alumni share what they've been up to since they graduated, and offer a few words of advice for the Class of 2022. Full 2022 Commencement Coverage Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School From Orientation to Commencement, a look at a year at Harvard Law School. Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ On Commencement Day, Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning ’85 urged the 833 graduating students of the Class of 2022 to use their power as Harvard lawyers to “to make our world better." Reflections of the Class of 2022 Graduating J.D.s and LL.M.s reflect on their law school experience and share their hopes for the future. ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ The Class of 2022 made Professor Jon Hanson a four-time winner of the Sacks-Freund Award for Teaching Excellence at Class Day. The award recognizes teaching ability, attentiveness to student concerns and general contributions to student life. Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Michelle Wu, mayor of Boston and Harvard University's 2022 Class Day speaker, urged graduates to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto of veritas Wednesday at Tercentenary Theatre. Gallery: Harvard Law School Class Day 2022 The Class of 2022 celebrated Class Day outdoors with friends and family, faculty and staff, and special guests. ‘Beware the urge to chase after other people’s dreams’ Kristi Jobson ’12, the assistant dean for admissions and chief admissions officer, received the Suzanne L. Richardson Staff Appreciation Award during Harvard Law School’s Class Day ceremony on May 25. Students from the Class of 2022 honored Each year, a selection of Harvard Law students from the graduating class are recognized for their outstanding leadership, citizenship, compassion, and dedication to their studies and the profession. Students honored with Dean’s Awards for Community Leadership The Dean’s Awards for Community Leadership recognize a number of graduating students who contribute time and energy to making the Harvard Law School community a better place through involvement in student organizations, community service groups, and individual efforts. Watch Commencement ceremonies live Harvard Law School will celebrate degree candidates from the Class of 2022, as well as graduates from the Classes of 2021 and 2020, with ceremonies on May 25, 26, and 29. Emily Chazen and Ivanka Canzius awarded Westfall Memorial Award Emily Chazen and Ivanka Canzius are this year's recipients of the Westfall Memorial Award, presented annually to recognize student contributions to creating community within a first-year section and the wider class. Kareem Carryl receives Righeimer Prize for student citizenship Kareem Carryl is this year’s recipient of the Frank Righeimer Jr. Prize, awarded annually to a graduating student or students in recognition of exceptional citizenship within the HLS community. Top five photo ops for commencement Harvard Law School's beautiful campus provides excellent backdrops for Class Day and Commencement photos. Who are you, ’22? As the Class of 2022 prepares to don regalia, the soon-to-be graduates share what their time at Harvard Law School has meant to them. Cara Mund receives the Kristin P. Muniz Memorial Award Cara Mund ‘22 is the winner of the second annual Kristin P. Muniz Memorial Award. Mund is recognized for her commitment to justice, her advocacy, compassion for her clients, and stellar representation of each of those clients. Henry Beshar and Stacey Menjivar receive 2022 Clinical Legal Education Association Awards Henry Beshar and Stacey Menjivar are the recipients of the 2022 Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA) Awards. The awards are presented annually to students from each law school for outstanding clinical coursework and contributions to the clinical community. Liz Butterworth honored with the Gants Access to Justice Award Liz Butterworth ‘22 is the recipient of the 2022 Gants Access to Justice Award, honored for her significant contributions as a zealous advocate for housing justice in the local Boston community. Brianna Banks named winner of Stuntz Memorial Award This year, Brianna Banks was named the 2022 winner of the William J. Stuntz Memorial Award for Justice, Human Dignity, and Compassion, which recognizes a graduating student who has demonstrated an exemplary commitment to the principles of justice, human dignity, and compassion while at Harvard Law School. Flashback For decades, joyful and candid moments have marked the occasion of students' graduations from Harvard Law School. Here is a sampling of Commencement Day photos from the school's extensive collection. Spring forward As they prepared for commencement, graduating Harvard Law students shared thoughts on their inspirations, aspirations, and challenges before, beyond, and during law school. Service comes first A student of international law and public policy — and recently-commissioned Marine Corps officer — Tyler Patrick started planning a life of service when he was a boy. ‘I was able to feel like I was making an impact’ Cara Mund ‘22 hopes to leverage tenacity gained as an advocate — and 2018 Miss America — to influence public policy. Championing the underdog William Greenlaw ’22 has his sights set on the ‘least, lost, and left out.’ Back to school During an ‘exciting and gratifying year,’ Dionne Koller Fine LL.M. ’22, a tenured professor of law, became a student again. Words from the wise Niko Bowie, Molly Brady, Stephanie Robinson, and Jon Hanson gave the gift of knowledge to soon-to-be graduates in their Last Lectures, an annual Harvard Law tradition. ‘I felt so strongly that this was the right place’ Jackson Beard ’22 has known she wanted to be a lawyer since she was 14 — and she can recall the exact moment that set her on her path to Harvard Law School and her future career. Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.