Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today What They're Saying: School of Veterinary Medicine Ribbon Cutting Allen Ramsey April 28, 2022 A look back at what was said during last week’s historic ribbon cutting in Amarillo. (l-r) Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., President Lawrence Schovanec, Dean Guy Loneragan, Chairman J. Michael Lewis April 22, 2022, was a historic day for Texas Tech University and the state of Texas as the ribbon was cut for Texas Tech's School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo. The event at the Robert L. Duncan Plaza marked the first time in over a century that the state of Texas had opened a new veterinary school, with Gov. Greg Abbott joining leaders from the Texas Tech University System and across the state to celebrate the completed and fully operational school. Here is a look back at the comments shared by leaders on hand as Texas Tech cut the ribbon on its state-of-the-art facility. Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec: Next year we'll celebrate the centennial anniversary of Texas Tech University. In 1923, Texas Tech was created to serve the communities and to address the needs of West Texas. But the benefits of our university have not been contained to the South Plains. Our dedication remains to West Texas, but our impact is felt across the state and around the world. Now, nearly a century later, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine will address needs that are particularly acute in the rural communities and the industries of West Texas, but we can be sure that the benefits will be statewide. Governor Greg Abbott Texas Gov. Greg Abbott: It was in 1916 – when Texas had about 4.5 million residents in the entire state – at that time the leaders in the state of Texas thought that there was a need for the state of Texas to have a veterinarian school. And they established one back in 1916 at Texas A&M. It took more than 100 years to double that number. Since 1916 Texas has added about 25 million people to our population as well as countless animals. Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Dean Guy Loneragan: While the vision was bold, our purpose is simple. It is how we serve rural and regional communities of Texas and beyond, and how we provide access to world-class, affordable education. That's it. There's nothing more, nothing else, nothing less. That is our purpose, and it has driven everything we have done as a school. Texas Tech University System Board of Regents Chairman J. Michael Lewis: I grew up in West Texas, very much a part of the agriculture industry on my family's ranch in Olney, and so I know how important and impactful agriculture is to our heritage and our prosperity in Texas. The School of Veterinary Medicine is an accomplishment that has not only elevated the entire Texas Tech University System and allowed us to provide greatly needed educational opportunities for our students, but it's one that has also given us the opportunity to answer the tremendous needs of our communities and to serve those who provide critical resources and services to our state and region – also known as food. Mayor Ginger Nelson Loneragan: Serving rural and regional communities begins with purposeful admission and selection of the students that will be part of the program. Our first class is truly amazing. I reckon they might be the best class of veterinary students in the country, but I could be just a little bit biased. These students are the future of the veterinary medicine profession in Texas and New Mexico. They will contribute to the vibrancy of communities all across Texas and help secure its wonderful future. Our students work with us every day. They help build this program. They will become the measures of our success. Texas Tech University System Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D.: Our state is blessed. For over a century, we have had one of the finest veterinary medicine schools in the world run by our friends in College Station. Today, as we cut this ribbon, our state and New Mexico are blessed twice over, because we now have two schools with very different missions, but with a common focus on excellence in veterinary medicine. Gov. Abbott: Being a Tier 1 university, for Texas Tech, is like Texas Tech going to the NCAA basketball tournament: It's a great start, but it's not the destination they seek. There are greater heights to achieve, and Texas Tech is doing all the right things to reach those heights with the opening and addition of this tremendous vet school. Cassidy Snow Amarillo Mayor Ginger Nelson: I'll tell you that everyone who touched this project and worked on it can testify to hearing these words: ‘You'll never get it done.' ‘You don't have the support.' ‘You'll never raise the money.' ‘This will never happen.' But we didn't let others define what we were capable of doing. And now, after years of hard work with our project that couldn't be done, the biggest longshot is a reality. So, we can look to the future and anticipate the benefits that this school will bring to the Panhandle and to the state of Texas. Veterinary student Cassidy Snow: I'm so proud to be a part of the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine and the family that is created by our program and by Texas Tech University. I'm so excited to be standing here today with everyone, sharing in this incredible milestone with our incredible community. We truly cannot wait to make you guys proud, and I think that you'll see that the amazing doctors made possible by this program will go on to show that excitement to Texas, New Mexico and beyond. Thank you all for being here today. From here, it's possible. Wreck'Em! Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Feature Stories, Research, Stories, TTU Features, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 28, 2022 12:12 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index