Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today National Ranching Heritage Center Offers Summer Youth Classes Glenys Young May 25, 2022 Activities range from wagon-building and practicing ranch skills to producing a Western movie. Children who have completed first through fifth grade will have unique opportunities for summer activities through Texas Tech University's National Ranching Heritage Center (NRHC). The Summer Youth Classes will run from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. June 13-17. Summer Youth Classes meet the Texas Tech Masked Rider and Raider Red at the NRHC. Summer Youth Class options for children who have completed first or second grade include pioneer living and ranch hands or ranch arts and crafts, while class options for students who have completed third through fifth grades include frontier crafts and trades and ranch art or Western movie-making. From building a covered wagon, exploring historic structures and learning important ranch skills to studying ranching history through art projects and producing a Western movie, there is a Summer Youth Class activity for all areas of interest. All classes will take place at the NRHC and will be taught by professional educators and NRHC staff. Registration is $100 for Ranching Heritage Association members and $125 for non-members. Registrants are expected to attend the full five days of classes. For more information or to register, visit ranchingheritage.org or contact Julie Hodges at julie.hodges@ttu.edu. About the National Ranching Heritage Center The NRHC is a 27-acre museum and historical park that offers educational programs and exhibits about ranching history and contemporary ranching issues. The center is located at 3121 Fourth St. in Lubbock. It is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday and from 1-5 p.m. Sunday. Admission is free, and the historical park is wheelchair and stroller accessible. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Museums, Stories, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater.Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile National Ranching Heritage Center <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The National Ranching Heritage Center (NRHC) museum and historical park was established to preserve the interpret the history of ranching in North America. The historical park consists of 48 authentic ranch structures that show the evolution of ranch life from the late 1700s through the early 1900s. The center, located at 3121 Fourth Street in Lubbock, is open to the public free of charge. For more information on the NHRC call (806) 742-0498.Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 25, 2022 8:02 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index