Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Campus Life José Luis Bermúdez Named Interim Dean Of Arts And Sciences As the academic heart of Texas A&M, the College of Arts and Sciences will provide world-class teaching, research, service and resources. By Robyn Blackmon, Texas A&M University College of Geosciences May 19, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Bermúdez joined the Texas A&M faculty in 2010 as dean of the College of Liberal Arts. Laura McKenzie/Texas A&M Division of Marketing & Communications Dr. José Luis Bermúdez, professor of philosophy and the Samuel Rhea Gammon Professor of Liberal Arts at Texas A&M University, has been appointed interim dean of the Texas A&M College of Arts and Sciences, effective May 1. Bermúdez’s appointment was announced mid-April by Texas A&M Interim Provost and Executive Vice President Dr. Timothy P. Scott ’89. Bermúdez will continue to serve concurrently as acting dean of the Texas A&M College of Dentistry until June 1. “Dr. Bermúdez is a distinguished scholar and committed educator who brings significant experience leading organizations and programs during periods of change,” Scott said. “He is committed to excellence in our teaching, research and service missions, while leading the administrative operations for the new College of Arts and Sciences.” Bermúdez joined the Texas A&M faculty in 2010 as dean of the College of Liberal Arts. As dean, he worked with department heads and faculty within the college to fund and recruit more than 75 new faculty members from leading research universities under Texas A&M’s campus-wide faculty reinvestment program. In 2014, he was appointed as Associate Provost for Strategic Planning, a yearlong appointment during which he chaired the committee implementing a comprehensive administrative review of Texas A&M University — an effort that ultimately redirected significant annual funding to the teaching and research enterprises. Prior to being recruited to Texas A&M, Bermúdez was a professor of philosophy at Washington University in St. Louis, where he also served as director of both the Center for Programs in Arts and Sciences and the Philosophy-Neuroscience-Psychology Program. His interdisciplinary research at the intersection of philosophy and the cognitive and behavioral sciences has resulted in eight single-author books and six edited volumes to date, among many other publications. He was recognized in 2021 with a Texas A&M Association of Former Students Distinguished Achievement Award for Research. Born in Bogotá, Colombia, Bermúdez was educated in England, earning both his bachelor of arts and master’s of arts in philosophy with honors as well as his Ph.D. in philosophy from King’s College, Cambridge University. His personal interests include managing for wildlife a ranch he owns in Robertson County and training his horse for three-day eventing. He also participates in ultralong-distance bike races, such as the Iditarod Invitational, a 1,000-mile unsupported race across Alaska in winter. To learn more about Bermúdez and his teaching, research and professional service accomplishments, visit https://liberalarts.tamu.edu/philosophy/profile/jose-luis-bermudez/. For more information about the Texas A&M College of Arts and Sciences, go to https://artsci.tamu.edu. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Media contact: Robyn C. Blackmon, 979-845-6324, robynblackmon@tamu.edu Related Stories Campus Life Texas A&M Part Of New A&M System Affirmation Of Support For National Guard And Reserve Employees A&M System members are the first academic-based organizations in Texas to sign the ESGR Statement of Support. Campus Life Texas A&M Names Brigadier General Joe. E. Ramirez Jr. Vice President For Student Affairs Ramirez, a Texas A&M graduate, has served in the role in an interim capacity since June 3. Campus Life Architecture Dean Transitioning To New Role, Acting Dean Appointed Jorge A. Vanegas, dean of the College of Architecture since 2009, will remain with the university and Patrick C. Suermann will serve as acting dean. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Name Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top