Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Cyberlaw Henry Beshar and Stacey Menjivar receive 2022 Clinical Legal Education Association Awards Henry Beshar and Stacey Menjivar are the recipients of the 2022 Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA) Awards. The awards are presented annually to students from each law school for outstanding clinical coursework and contributions to the clinical community. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Comparative Law, Cyberlaw, Human Rights, Public Policy Tackling issues at the intersection of technology, democracy, and human rights Susan Hendrickson ’93, the new executive director of the Berkman Klein Center, recently spoke with Harvard Law Today about her career path, her advice for law students, what keeps her up at night and why, nevertheless, she continues to be optimistic about tech. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Public Service, Science & Technology The Institute for Rebooting Social Media announces its inaugural cohort of visiting scholars The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University has announced its Institute for Rebooting Social Media’s inaugural cohort of Visiting Scholars. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Science & Technology ‘There was no promise not to enlarge NATO’ Robert Zoellick, the U.S. diplomat who helped negotiate the end of the Cold War, says Vladimir Putin’s claims about Ukraine are part of a disinformation campaign. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Cyberlaw, International, Mediation & Negotiation, National and International Security Algorithm nation A Harvard Law School reading group debates how the law should manage self-driving cars, A.I.-generated art, and other algorithmic technology. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Cyberlaw, Ethics, Science & Technology, Tort Law ‘We Ukrainians know Putin all too well’ For international law expert Svitlana Starosvit LL.M. ’13 S.J.D. ’22, Russia’s military assault on Ukraine is horrifying yet unsurprising because, she says, “We Ukrainians know Putin all too well.” Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Cyberlaw, International, National and International Security, Public Service Berkman Klein Center welcomes Susan Hendrickson as executive director The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University has announced the appointment of Susan Hendrickson ’93 as its new executive director. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Cyberlaw, Human Rights, Science & Technology Protecting the media to protect democracy At a Harvard Law School Library Book Talk, Martha Minow, along with Vicki Jackson and Nikolas Bowie, discussed why the press is in danger — and how to save it. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Constitutional, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Legal History, Public Policy Is it time to swipe left on social media? Leaked revelations about Instagram’s impact on teens have united Republicans and Democrats in considering legal reforms, say Harvard Law School scholars. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Cyberlaw, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Public Policy, Science & Technology Moderating free speech At a Federalist Society event, David French ’94 says government “should keep its hands off” social media and argues that support for free speech is waning across the political spectrum. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Constitutional, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Public Policy Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Federalist Society Loop navigation Page 1 of 24 First Previous 1 2 3 … 24 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.