Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Faculty Scholarship New and noteworthy books, publications, research and honors Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Professor Guy-Uriel E. Charles, the Charles Ogletree, Jr. Professor of Law at Harvard, has been elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Election Law Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Across major news outlets, Harvard Law scholars weighed in on the implications —for the Court and country — of a leaked draft of a majority Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Ethics, Family, Gender & Children, Legal History, Local Government Law Inspiring change On Earth Day, we highlight some of the work being done by Harvard Law students, scholars, clinics, and programs to address some our most pressing environmental issues. Themes: Teaching & Learning, Student Spotlights, Faculty Scholarship Topics: Environmental Supreme Court preview: Kennedy v. Bremerton School District The Supreme Court stands poised to decide whether a high school coach’s penchant for prayers with players poses First Amendment problems. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Constitutional, Legal History ‘I’d love it if poetry was required reading for law school’ In celebration of National Poetry Month, HLS lecturer and poet Jessica Fjeld reads a passage from a poem by Terrance Hayes, and discusses the importance of poetry in building empathy and connection. Themes: Teaching & Learning, Faculty Scholarship Current electric vehicles subsidies fail to reduce overall emissions, says Harvard Law study Subsidies offered by the federal government for the purchase of new electric vehicles (EVs) may actually increase total greenhouse gas emissions without similar aid for secondhand buyers, concludes a new study led by Ashley Nunes, Ph.D., a fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Environmental, Family, Gender & Children, Science & Technology Cases in Brief: Powell v. Alabama with Dehlia Umunna In the first of the series, “Cases in Brief,” Harvard Law Professor Dehlia Umunna discusses the infamous “Scottsboro Boys” case, Powell v. Alabama (1932), in which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled for the first time that defendants in capital cases have the right to adequate legal counsel. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Criminal, Legal History Limiting lessons Alexander Chen of Harvard Law’s LGBTQ+ Advocacy Clinic says Florida’s Parental Rights in Education bill likely will face First Amendment and Equal Protection Clause challenges. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Civil Rights, Family, Gender & Children Digital Treasury accounts would expand banking access for financially vulnerable In recent paper, Howell Jackson and Timothy Massad propose that the U.S. Treasury Department implement a new mechanism to improve financial services for financially vulnerable households and expedite delivery of government benefits. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Business, Family, Gender & Children, Fiduciary Law, Public Policy Play ball! Sports law expert  Peter Carfagna discusses Major League Baseball’s new collective bargaining agreement and the impact it will have on the game of baseball. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Sports & Entertainment Loop navigation Page 1 of 161 First Previous 1 2 3 … 161 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.