Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 News@Law Mayor Wu announces new citywide composting program June 1, 2022 Have you ever let a few eggs or a handful of raspberries spoil in your fridge, only to toss them into the garbage? If so, you’re in good company. In the United States, up to 40 percent of all food that is produced gets thrown away, creating tens of millions of pounds of waste each year that ends up in landfills and incinerators, producing powerful climate-warming emissions. Taking aim at what some say is a critical piece of the climate fight, Boston Mayor Michelle Wu on Thursday said the city is launching a citywide composting program. … “Reducing food waste must be a part of our strategy to fight climate change,” said Emily Broad Leib, director of Harvard Law School’s Food Law and Policy Clinic. According to one environmental nonprofit’s estimates, she noted, scaling up home composting programs nationally could divert tens of thousands of tons of greenhouse gas emissions every year. Read at The Boston Globe People: Emily Broad Leib A Conservative Lawyer’s New Target After Abortion: Affirmative Action June 1, 2022 Jonathan F. Mitchell, the architect of the law that sharply curtailed abortions in Texas, filed a brief in the Supreme Court the other day. He has moved on to affirmative action. The filing has elicited rueful admiration from supporters of race-conscious admissions programs in higher education. “This brief supplies conservative justices with what they may well deem an enticing, elegant approach to dismantling affirmative action,” said Justin Driver, a law professor at Yale. … Soon after the Bostock decision landed, Jeannie Suk Gersen, a law professor at Harvard, wrote in The New Yorker that “the court’s opinion also has some potential land mines for liberals” and that “there is reason to think that Bostock’s formalist articulations on discrimination will bolster a conservative decision to dismantle race-conscious admissions policies.” Read at The New York Times People: Jeannie Suk Gersen Legal Experts React to Report That SCOTUS Clerks Are Being Asked to Sign Affidavits, Provide Cell Phone Records in Leak Probe June 1, 2022 Following the stunning leak of a draft Supreme Court opinion that appears poised to roll back nearly 50 years of guaranteed access to abortion, Chief Justice John Roberts pledged that the person who provided the document to Politico would be found. The high court’s hunt for the leaker has stirred controversy among legal experts, who gave varying responses to Law&Crime about whether law clerks should comply with the investigation. … “The law clerks have positions of very special confidentiality and responsibility, and a leak of this kind—though it shouldn’t distract our attention from the more important issue of what was in fact leaked and the importance of the impending overruling of Roe vs. Wade—nonetheless is extremely damaging to the court as an institution and to its ability to function,” Harvard Law Professor Laurence Tribe told Law&Crime on Tuesday. “If law clerks can’t be trusted by their justices, it’s almost as bad as justices not trusting one another.” Read at Law and Crime People: Laurence Tribe How Biden Has Made Policy With Short-Term, Costly Rules: Charts June 1, 2022 President Joe Biden relied on short-term regulations with significant economic impact to achieve key policy aims in the first year of his presidency—even as federal judges ruled he didn’t have the power to write those rules. Without a working majority in Congress, the president turned to temporary rules to rapidly meet his pandemic goals in particular. He approved 19 temporary rules, a total that exceeded even his regulation-friendly former boss Barack Obama, according to Bloomberg Government’s analysis of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs’ work logs. The list of short-term regulations includes his vaccine-or-test mandate for the private sector and mask requirement in certain preschools. … “Over the last several decades, we’ve gotten used to governing through” federal agencies, said Carmel Shachar, a Harvard health law professor. “The recent court cases indicate that we’re entering an era that is going to walk that back.” Read at Bloomberg Law People: Carmel Shachar Trump Indictment Predicted in Georgia By Legal Expert: ‘Charges Will Stick’ June 1, 2022 Alegal expert is predicting that potential felony charges against former President Donald Trump are likely to have standing in Georgia, and indictments may continue past the Peach State. “It wouldn’t surprise me for Georgia to become the first jurisdiction to indict a former president on felony charges. I doubt it’ll be the last. And I think the charges will stick,” Laurence Tribe, professor emeritus of constitutional law at Harvard University, tweeted on Friday. Tribe’s remarks came as Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis ramps up her investigation into Trump’s alleged efforts to overturn Georgia’s vote in the 2020 presidential election. Trump lost the state by a narrow margin of 0.23 points. Read at Newsweek People: Laurence Tribe Tech experts urge Washington to resist crypto industry’s influence June 1, 2022 A group of renowned technologists has joined forces to urge US lawmakers to crack down on the burgeoning cryptocurrencies industry, marking the first concerted effort to counter well-financed lobbying by blockchain companies. Harvard lecturer Bruce Schneier, former Microsoft engineer Miguel de Icaza and principal engineer at Google Cloud Kelsey Hightower, are among 26 leading computer scientists and academics who have signed a letter delivered to US lawmakers heavily criticising crypto investments and blockchain technology. While individuals have made similar warnings about the safety and reliability of digital assets, it marks a more organised effort to challenge the growing influence of crypto advocates who want to resist attempts to regulate the frothy sector. “The claims that the blockchain advocates make are not true,” said Schneier. “It’s not secure, it’s not decentralised. Any system where you forget your password and you lose your life savings is not a safe system,” he added. Read at Financial Times People: Bruce Schneier A Supreme Court justice’s solution to gun violence: Repeal Second Amendment June 1, 2022 Four years ago, when — as now — the nation was reeling from the horror of a mass school shooting, a retired Supreme Court justice suggested a radical solution: getting rid of the Second Amendment. John Paul Stevens issued the call after 17 people were killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., in February 2018. The attack prompted hundreds of thousands to demand action the next month to end gun violence at the March for Our Lives. … Stevens’s proposal didn’t generate a lot of momentum, but it did get pushback from some fellow liberals. “I admire Justice Stevens but his supposedly ‘simple but dramatic’ step of repealing the 2d Am is AWFUL advice,” tweeted Laurence Tribe, a Harvard law professor. “The obstacle to strong gun laws is political, not legal. Urging a politically impossible effort just strengthens opponents of achievable reform.” Tribe expanded on his argument in a Washington Post op-ed, headlined “The Second Amendment isn’t the problem.” “The NRA’s strongest rallying cry has been: ‘They’re coming for our beloved Second Amendment,’” he wrote. “Enter Stevens, stage left, boldly calling for the amendment’s demise, thereby giving aid and comfort to the gun lobby’s favorite argument.” Read at The Washington Post People: Laurence Tribe The Breaking Point Is Here—Again June 1, 2022 What I want to pinpoint is a sensation—physical, cognitive, temporal—that is occurring at this fixed point in time, especially this past week, in the days following the twin tragedies in Buffalo, where 10 Black people were fatally gunned down in a supermarket, and Uvalde, where 19 children and two teachers were massacred at a rural Texas elementary school, in what is now the second-largest school shooting in US history. First, let us finally do away with the big, stinking lie of immoderation, of how terrorism casts its depravity in our jagged land. The language of radicals and extremists is not born in the margins, as the folklore has gone about replacement theory, the foul dogma the gunman used to justify his slaughter in Buffalo. There is nothing peripheral about how hate draws breath. To be among the marginalized, outside the arena of power in the America of yesterday and tomorrow, is to live in the stifling yoke of wholesale animosity. It is to know the face of such cruelties as a constant, as an always. … Between 2009 and 2019, according to the Anti-Defamation League, 60 percent of the killings committed by extremists were carried out by individuals harboring white supremacist ideologies such as replacement theory. Subjugation—or extermination, as the Buffalo gunman intended—is not so easily eluded in America when you live in opposition to the thrall of whiteness. “A post-slavery world was deliberately made, with the idea of keeping Blacks as near to slavery as possible for the longest time possible,” historian Annette Gordon-Reed recently observed. Read at Wired People: Annette Gordon-Reed Seizing Russian Assets to Help Ukraine Sets Off White House Debate June 1, 2022 The devastation in Ukraine brought on by Russia’s war has leaders around the world calling for seizing more than $300 billion of Russian central bank assets and handing the funds to Ukraine to help rebuild the country. But the movement, which has gained momentum in parts of Europe, has run into resistance in the United States. Top Biden administration officials warned that diverting those funds could be illegal and discourage other countries from relying on the United States as a haven for investment. … Laurence H. Tribe, an emeritus law professor at Harvard University, pointed out that an amendment to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act that passed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks gives the president broader discretion to determine if a foreign threat warrants confiscation of assets. President Biden could cite Russian cyberattacks against the United States to justify liquidating the central bank reserves, Mr. Tribe said, adding that the Treasury Department was misreading the law. “If Secretary Yellen believes this is illegal, I think she’s flatly wrong,” he said. “It may be that they are blending legal questions with their policy concerns.” Read at The New York Times People: Laurence Tribe How a court decision overturning abortion could affect IVF June 1, 2022 Health law experts examine how IVF and embryonic research could — both purposely and inadvertently — be caught up in new restrictions on abortion. This video features commentary from Stanford Law School professor Hank Greely, Harvard Law School professor I. Glenn Cohen and George Washington University Law School professor Sonia Suter. Read at Reuters People: Glenn Cohen Loop navigation Page 1 of 1181 First Previous 1 2 3 … 1,181 Next Last Search News@Law Search for: Submit Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.