Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Intellectual Property ‘We want to show students how to be entrepreneurs’ In a Harvard Law School reading group, entrepreneurs and legal operation specialists are sharing a road map for using technology to change the legal profession. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Intellectual Property Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Association for Law and Business, Harvard Journal of Law and Technology Tackling issues at the intersection of technology, democracy, and human rights Susan Hendrickson ’93, the new executive director of the Berkman Klein Center, recently spoke with Harvard Law Today about her career path, her advice for law students, what keeps her up at night and why, nevertheless, she continues to be optimistic about tech. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Public Service, Science & Technology The Institute for Rebooting Social Media announces its inaugural cohort of visiting scholars The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University has announced its Institute for Rebooting Social Media’s inaugural cohort of Visiting Scholars. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Science & Technology A tough road for suing gun makers Harvard Law Professor Rebecca Tushnet says that, despite the $73 million settlement between Sandy Hook families and Remington Arms, victims of future gun crimes still ‘face an uphill road.’ Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Intellectual Property In Memoriam: Lloyd L. Weinreb: 1936–2021 Described as one of the great figures in the history of Harvard Law School, Lloyd L. Weinreb ’62, a leading authority on criminal and copyright law, and an HLS professor for nearly a half-century, died Dec. 15, at the age of 85. Harvard Law Bulletin: Winter 2022 Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Criminal, Intellectual Property ‘The algorithm has primacy over media … over each of us, and it controls what we do’ Social media’s business model of personalized virality is incompatible with democracy, agreed experts at a recent Harvard Law School discussion on the state of democracy. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Behavioral Economics, Business, Election Law, Ethics, Intellectual Property, Public Policy, Science & Technology Faculty on the move With the start of the academic year, a look at nine faculty who have joined Harvard Law School, been promoted, or taken on new roles in 2021. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Civil Rights, Constitutional, Election Law, Housing Law, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, Land Use Law, Legal History, Local Government Law, Mediation & Negotiation, Property Law, Public Service Property law scholar Maureen ‘Molly’ Brady named to the tenured faculty at Harvard Law School Maureen E. “Molly” Brady, an expert in property law, was named a professor of law, effective July 1. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Constitutional, Intellectual Property, Land Use Law, Local Government Law, Property Law The alchemist Keyon Lo LL.M. ’21 hopes to combine his legal and artistic skills to promote fairness and diversity Topics: Business, Civil Rights, Family, Gender & Children, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Service Memes for Sale? Making sense of NFTs The high-priced sales of creative NFTs have recently become ubiquitous. Harvard Law Today asked intellectual property law expert Rebecca Tushnet to help make sense of the NFT boom. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Intellectual Property Loop navigation Page 1 of 11 First Previous 1 2 3 … 11 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.