Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Harvard Law Bulletin - Summer 2018 Table of Contents Features Experiential and Essential With 29 clinics in a wide range of fields of law and policy, Harvard Law School students can develop skills in an experiential program that constantly adapts to their interests, as well as to new approaches and areas of the law. Here are four accounts from students using that opportunity to address pressing legal and social issues. Continue Reading Morality in the Machines Researchers at Harvard’s Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society are collaborating with MIT scholars to study driverless cars, social media feeds, and criminal justice algorithms, to make sure openness and ethics inform artificial intelligence. Continue Reading No Paper Tiger A new book by Laurence Tribe and Joshua Matz examines the real and threatened power of impeachment. Continue Reading Branch Returns to Her Navajo Roots As attorney general of the Navajo Nation, Ethel Branch ’08 aims to strengthen tribal law and native voices. Continue Reading Departments Inside HLS: News and Views From Campus Alumni Notes & Newsmakers Writ Large: Faculty Books Letters Gallery In Memoriam Browse Issue → Submit A Class Note Submit A Letter Submit an Obituary Contact Us Bulletin Archives Download PDF HLS 200 In the Spirit At HLS in the Community, hundreds gather to share ideas and work toward solutions for the common good June 26, 2018 Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Credit: Heratch Photography Clinical Professor Dehlia Umunna leading a discussion on injustices in the criminal justice system Read More “To join the legal profession is to enter a kind of trust—to ensure that the power and privilege that we hold are applied in a way that benefits the world.” —Daniel Nagin In April, Harvard Law School’s bicentennial programming came to a close with HLS in the Community, a day of hackathons and workshops. The spirit of the clinics infused the event. Daniel Nagin, clinical professor and vice dean for experiential and clinical education, in introducing the hackathons, touched on HLS’s commitment to serve the common good: “To join the legal profession is to enter a kind of trust—to ensure that the power and privilege that we hold are applied in a way that benefits the world.” Credit: Tony Rinaldo. Credit: Heratch Photography. Credit: Tony Rinaldo. Credit: Tony Rinaldo. Credit: Tony Rinaldo. Credit: Tony Rinaldo. + 8 More » + 5 More » That spirit was on display throughout the day in the discussions and problem-solving. And in the evening, as the alumni, student, faculty, and staff participants gathered for the closing clinical showcase on Jarvis Field, photographs and interactive displays (such as the Tenant Advocacy Project’s Wheel of Misfortune) put the work of the clinics and Student Practice Organizations at the center of the celebration. Share this post Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share with a friend through email Topics: Clinical Practice, Public Service People: Daniel Nagin Latest News Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 More News Scroll For More → Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.