Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Tag: Graduate Program ‘I felt like I was joining a family of folks who genuinely … wanted me to succeed’ Harvard Law School recently celebrated staff — including 149 longer service employees — at the annual Staff Appreciation luncheon. Themes: Teaching & Learning Back to school During an ‘exciting and gratifying year,’ Dionne Koller Fine LL.M. ’22, a tenured professor of law, became a student again. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Sports & Entertainment A focus on empowerment A social entrepreneur from Nepal, Jesselina Rana LL.M. ’22 focuses on human rights and women’s health. Themes: Student Spotlights International Night at HLS The LL.M. Class of 2022 gathered in April for a fun-filled International Night in the WCC which featured dancing, singing, and spoken word talents — not to mention their team rowing skills. Themes: Student Spotlights Life imitating art As an LL.M. student at Harvard Law School who is about to launch both a solo show and a collective exhibition with other Black artists across Harvard, Suleyman Wellings-Longmore LL.M. ’22 says he can finally see how his legal and artistic passions inspire and fuel one another. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Human Rights, International, Mediation & Negotiation Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Prison Legal Assistance Project, HLS Advocates for Human Rights Eric Tong-Sheng Wu LL.M. ’77 S.J.D. ’91 awarded Taiwanese Cultural Collaboration Medal Eric Tong-Sheng Wu LL.M. ’77 S.J.D. ’91, a Taiwanese business executive, legislator, and philanthropist, has received the inaugural Taiwanese Cultural Collaboration Medal from the Republic of China’s Ministry of Culture. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: International HLS team advances in the Philip C. Jessup International Moot Court Competition Harvard Law School’s team has won the national round of the 2021-2022 Philip C. Jessup International Moot Court Competition and will advance to the international round, to be held from March 24 through April 10. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Human Rights, International, National and International Security Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard International Law Journal Ayesha Malik LL.M. ’99 is appointed to the Supreme Court of Pakistan Ayesha Malik LL.M. ’99 has become the first woman to serve as a Justice of Pakistan’s Supreme Court in the country’s 75-year history. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: International ‘We Ukrainians know Putin all too well’ For international law expert Svitlana Starosvit LL.M. ’13 S.J.D. ’22, Russia’s military assault on Ukraine is horrifying yet unsurprising because, she says, “We Ukrainians know Putin all too well.” Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Cyberlaw, International, National and International Security, Public Service Hilary Charlesworth S.J.D. ’86 elected to the International Court of Justice Hilary Charlesworth S.J.D. ’86, an Australian barrister and solicitor, law professor, and renowned scholar of international law, has been elected to serve as a judge on the International Court of Justice. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: International Loop navigation Page 1 of 5 First Previous 1 2 3 … 5 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.