Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search News Releases Texas A&M Announces Montague-Center For Teaching Excellence Award Recipients The center has honored teaching excellence for 30 years. By Sherri MacWillie, Center for Teaching Excellence September 10, 2020 Share Share13 Tweet 13 Shares Kenneth and Judy Montague The Texas A&M University Center for Teaching Excellence (CTE) announces this year’s Montague-CTE Scholars, the 30th year that this distinguished honor in teaching excellence has been awarded. The Montague-CTE Scholars Award is given annually to one tenure-track assistant professor from each college, based on their early success in and passion for teaching undergraduate students. Awardees receive a $6,500 grant to encourage further development of teaching excellence. This award has been granted to more than 279 faculty. The 2020 scholars are: Janie Moore, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering Alejandro Borges, College of Architecture, Department of Architecture Daniel Bowen, College of Education & Human Development, Department of Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Matt Pharr, College of Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering Katie Shamberger, College of Geosciences, Department of Oceanography Defne Över, College of Liberal Arts, Department of Sociology Jon Stauffer, Mays Business School, Department of Information and Operations Management Jonathan Sczepanski, College of Science, Department of Chemistry Sargurunathan Subashchandrabose, College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences, Department of Veterinary Pathobiology Cassia Bömer Galvao, Galveston Campus, Department of Maritime Administration Jim and Vicki Montague The Montague-CTE Scholars Award is named in honor of Kenneth Montague ’37, a distinguished alumnus and outstanding trustee of Texas A&M University Development Foundation, who had a long and storied career in the Texas oil industry. Ken and Judy Montague endowed a generous gift in 1991 to benefit the future “Ken Montagues,” Aggies who are life-long learners and contributors to their communities. The center continues to work with the Montague family, including Kenneth Montague’s son, Jim, and wife, Vicki, and thanks them for their generous and continued support. For more information on the Montague-CTE Scholars program, visit the center’s website or contact Sherri MacWillie at smacwillie@tamu.edu. Share13 Tweet 13 Shares Share Share13 Tweet 13 Shares Related Stories Campus Life PVAMU And Texas A&M Announce Faculty Winners Of $400K Joint PRISE Research Grants For 2022 Collaborative research areas include agriculture, architecture, science, education, engineering and psychology. Campus Life Association of Former Students Distinguished Achievement Award Recipients Named In recognition of their achievements, each recipient will receive a cash gift, an engraved watch, and a commemorative plaque. Campus Life 2022 Provost Academic Professional Track Faculty Teaching Excellence Award Recipients Named Recipients of this award will receive $5,000 to support teaching innovations and teaching-related projects and activities. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Comment Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top