Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Animal Welfare Expert Developing Virtual Reality Modules for Student Learning and Development Weston Brooks January 6, 2022 Nichole Anderson was awarded a $260,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Higher Education Challenge program. Virtual reality (VR) has taken the world by storm. The technology allows people to have simulated experiences that replicate real-life scenarios. This allows a person to interact, look and move around in an artificial world that feels very much like reality. VR technology is most popularly used for gaming. But this use only scratches the surface of its capabilities. It can be used as a tool to enrich learning and teaching methods by allowing people to enter an artificial world and gain valuable experience. Nichole Anderson, an assistant professor of animal welfare, continues a project she began the University of Missouri that gives the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo an opportunity to implement VR into student learning and success. Anderson was awarded a $260,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Higher Education Challenge (HEC) program for her project entitled, “Using Virtual Reality to Increase Student Understanding and Interest in Farm Animal Welfare.” Anderson is joined by Christopher Byrd from North Dakota State University. Together, they will investigate an additional mechanism for students to gain on-farm experience through VR modules, created by a VR company called Be More Colorful, focusing on swine and dairy production systems, and welfare issues they might potentially come across while working in the livestock industry. “Why not figure out a way to use virtual reality to help teach students?” said Anderson. “Virtual reality is becoming common practice in medical teaching but has barely been utilized in agriculture. VR will allow students to access an environment regardless of distance, weather, experience, biosecurity, or any other factors that might make it difficult to visit in real life. I am excited to be able to present to students those real-life situations with real farms in a virtual environment.” Anderson and Byrd have three objectives as part of the project. The first is to create, develop and evaluate the use of VR modules in an entry-level course to increase student interest and understanding of swine and dairy production systems. Second, they will create, develop and evaluate the use of VR-based animal welfare case studies that can be introduced in upper-level animal welfare, capstone production, or first-year graduate/veterinary courses. Screenshot from a VR module. Lastly, they will provide training opportunities for animal science-related faculty at other U.S. institutions to utilize and assess the success of the VR modules in their own classrooms. “We are so fortunate to have Dr. Anderson join our school. She immediately launched her research program in animal welfare, including projects of heat stress and pain management and how these are impacting cattle, as well as continue her passion in teaching on animal welfare-related topics,” said Thu ‘Annelise' Nguyen, associate dean for research and professor of toxicology. “This award validates her interest in advancing animal welfare education and improve management practices and subsequently provide good care and reduce stress and pain to animals.” Anderson wasted no time in launching the project into the next phase. A prototype module, which takes a person into an immersive journey through both pig and dairy farms, has been developed. Now, this prototype is being shown to different swine and dairy productions so they can begin partnering with farms to develop more succinct modules that will help give students the best possible opportunity to engage virtually in an animal production and welfare environment. Anderson's innovation paves the way for the future of learning. As the next steps unfold, Anderson will continue using cutting-edge technology to combine her expertise of animal welfare with student learning and experience so students have a chance to achieve excellence. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo was established in 2018. In March 2021, the school was granted the all-important status of Provisional Accreditation from the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education (COE) and welcomed its first cohort of students in August of that year. The School of Veterinary Medicine recruits and selects students with a passion to serve rural and regional communities. Its curriculum focuses on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practice types that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of Research and Innovation The Office of Research and Innovation is tasked with facilitating excellence in research, scholarship and creative activity for Texas Tech students, faculty and staff. The office promotes an academic environment embracing creativity, curiosity, innovation, diversity, ethics and integrity. Among other programs, the OR&I supports responsible and safe conduct of research, faculty development and recognition, interdisciplinary collaborations, externally sponsored research, partnerships with industry and community stakeholders, international research collaboration and the application of research for the benefit of society. The OR&I promotes a culture of creative expression, discovery, innovation and collaboration with the goal of advancing Texas Tech's status as an elite national research university. Twitter Facebook YouTube School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:35 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index