Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today University to Observe Sexual Assault Awareness Month Lucy Greenberg March 21, 2022 (VIDEO) Risk Intervention & Safety Education will host events throughout April to raise awareness about the realities of sexual assault. Texas Tech University's Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) will partner with departments and colleges across campus to raise public awareness about sexual assault and educate the Texas Tech and Lubbock communities on how to prevent violence. “Our team aims to provide safe spaces for conversations about sexual assault, how we can prevent it and how we can support survivors,” said Brittany Todd, director of RISE. “This month is a time to magnify the importance of these conversations, as well as educate our students about preventing sexual violence within a supportive, judgement-free environment.” The first sexual assault awareness month (SAAM) was observed in April 2001, and it has continued in cities and campuses across the nation ever since. According to the National Sexual Violence Resource Center, harassment, assault and abuse can happen anywhere, including online spaces. It's also still prevalent in modern society. The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) cites that every 68 seconds, an American is sexually assaulted. The purpose of SAAM is not only to raise awareness and educate, but also to elevate the voices of survivors and create safe spaces of hope and healing. “This month is an opportunity to expand our community's awareness of what sexual assault is and why it's a significant problem in our culture,” said Alexander Faris, program manager for RISK. “I believe this month is important because it shows solidarity and support for survivors of sexual assault and may provide agency for those who have experienced an assault and are struggling. We hope these events allow survivors' voices to be heard.” There are more than 20 opportunities to get involved, most notably Denim Day, Take Back the Night and “Exhale.” Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to attend events throughout SAAM. The Clothesline Project: April 1 - 30, Murray Hall, Chitwood/Weymouth and Horn/Knapp The Clothesline project has been hosted at Texas Tech since the late 1990s and is a month-long opportunity to observe SAAM. The displays in various dormitories across campus act as a way to bear witness to the fact that domestic and sexual violence exist in our communities. Campus members are invited to stop by and decorate a shirt and leave messages for survivors. “Exhale”: 2-4:30 p.m. Friday (April. 1), Texas Tech Dairy Barn Loft Exhale will feature performance and visual art from those affected by sexual violence. The event is a safe environment for survivors and supporters and will have snacks and refreshments. Survivors and supporters of survivors are encouraged to submit original artwork. For more information about the event and how to submit work, please use the submission form offered by RISE. The deadline for submissions is March 25. Feminist First Friday: noon to 1 p.m. Friday (April 1), for information on registration, use this link. Assistant Professor of technical communication and rhetoric, Jennifer Nish, will discuss and explore conversations about feminism and activism that circulate on social media. Coffee & Consent: 1-3 p.m. Monday (April 4), Starbucks at Honors Hall Students who stop by the table to get information on consent education and Title IX resources will receive a free 16 oz drink of their choice. Peer Ed Table: noon to 2 p.m. Monday (April 4), Student Union Building Peer educators will hand out promotional items for SAAM and talk to students about consent education. Bonny Shade - Train the Trainer: 6-7 p.m. Thursday (April 7), Matador Room Fraternity & Sorority Life leaders will participate in training regarding sexual assault awareness by guest speaker, Bonny Shade. This event is not open to the public. Peer Ed Table: noon to 2 p.m. Friday (April 8), Student Union Building Peer educators will hand out promotional items for SAAM and talk to students about consent education. Womxn's Night: 8-10 p.m. Friday (April 8), University Recreation Center An event to celebrate all Womxn-identifying students, faculty, staff, community members and affiliates. There will be group fitness classes, educational classes, games, giveaways, food and more. The recreation center will close during this time and only be open for Womxn. Peer Ed Table: noon to 2 p.m. Monday (April 11), Student Union Building Peer educators will be handing out promotional items for SAAM and talking to students about (sexuality transmitted infections) STI awareness, consent education and sexual health. STI Testing with Health Department: 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tuesday (April 12), Llano Estacado Room Registration to be completed on-site and tests are limited. Tests will screen for HIV, syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia. Only open to Texas Tech students. Peer Ed Table: 2:30-4:30 p.m. Wednesday (April 13), University Recreation Center Peer educators will be handing out promotional items for SAAM and talking to students about STI awareness, consent education and sexual health. R.A.D Systems Training: 4-7 p.m. Friday (April 15), Canyon Room Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D) provides educational opportunities for women, children, men and seniors to create a safer future for themselves. For information on registration, use this link. Please note participants must attend both the lecture and activity portion to complete the program. Yoga in the Park: 5:30-6:30 p.m. Friday (April 15), Urbanovsky Park (by the pond) Outdoor yoga for all fitness levels with RISE tabling and discussion about SAAM topics. Limited number of yoga mats provided. Active Consent & Myths of Sexual Assault: 11 a.m. to noon Monday (April 18), register for the Zoom meeting here. Presentation on active consent, myths and misconceptions about sexual assault. Peer Ed Table: noon to 2 p.m. Friday (April 22), Student Union Building West Plaza Peer educators will hand out promotional items for SAAM and talk to students about consent education. Mindful Triathlon: 9 a.m. to noon Saturday (April 23), Urbanovsky Park A fitness and wellness-based event with the theme of self-love that highlights SAAM. This event is for everyBODY and all levels of fitness. There will be a 1-mile walk or run, yoga and meditation. The event is free and open to the Texas Tech community. Peer Ed Table: noon to 2 p.m. Monday (April 25), Student Union Building West Plaza Peer educators will hand out promotional items for SAAM and talk to students about consent education. Demin Day Table: 2:30-4:30 p.m. Wednesday (April 27), University Recreation Center On this day, millions of people around the world wear jeans to support survivors and educate themselves and others about all forms of sexual violence. Panhellenic Tabling Event: 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wednesday (April 27), Student Union Building free speech area The Panhellenic Values Committee will be tabling and handing out flyers with campus resources as well as helping people educate themselves on the origins of Denim Day and its importance. Take Back the Night: 6-9 p.m. Wednesday (April 27), Memorial Circle Take Back the Night is an interactive event that creates awareness, empowers survivors and educates the community about sexual violence. Coffee & Consent: 2-5 p.m. Friday (April 29), J&B Coffee, 2701 26th St. Students who stop by the table to get information on consent education and Title IX resources will receive a free 16 oz drink of their choice. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: General, Stories, Videos, events Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) is a Texas Tech department focusing on Prevention & Wellness efforts for the Red Raider Community. The RISE Office provides a variety of services, educational workshops, and fun FREE events! RISE also administers the required Think About It course for all incoming first-year and transfer students. Texas Tech is committed to the safety and wellness of all Red Raiders. This goal is best achieved when we all play a part in creating a community of care for our fellow Red Raiders and a campus climate that is welcoming. Safety and wellness are shared responsibilities of students, faculty, and staff on our campus. When we say "I am a Red Raider!" we are committing to being part of the TTU Family. The RISE Office provides prevention education and services in the following areas: Alcohol & Other Drugs Gender & Sexuality Peer Education Safety Violence Prevention & Response Wellness RISE partners with several departments on campus to provide students and their parents, faculty, and staff a comprehensive safety and wellness program. Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 1, 2022 11:45 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index