Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Mediation & Negotiation Figueres receives 2022 Great Negotiator award at HLS As the former executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Christiana Figueres was in charge of the 2015 climate talks in Paris. In a conscious departure from earlier conferences, she declared that any agreement should be unanimous, rather than merely a consensus. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Environmental, Mediation & Negotiation, Public Service Talking across the aisle Courses led by Harvard Law’s Negotiation and Mediation Clinical Program teach students how to lead critical conversations about polarizing issues. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Mediation & Negotiation Life imitating art As an LL.M. student at Harvard Law School who is about to launch both a solo show and a collective exhibition with other Black artists across Harvard, Suleyman Wellings-Longmore LL.M. ’22 says he can finally see how his legal and artistic passions inspire and fuel one another. Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Clinical Practice, Human Rights, International, Mediation & Negotiation Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Prison Legal Assistance Project, HLS Advocates for Human Rights ‘There was no promise not to enlarge NATO’ Robert Zoellick, the U.S. diplomat who helped negotiate the end of the Cold War, says Vladimir Putin’s claims about Ukraine are part of a disinformation campaign. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Cyberlaw, International, Mediation & Negotiation, National and International Security Harvard Law students help pass legislation paving way for new therapies for ALS Students in an advanced negotiation course taught by Professor Rachel Viscomi ’01 and clinical instructor Sara del Nido Budish ’13 used insights from multiparty negotiation to analyze the potential passage of legislation aimed at helping people suffering from ALS — and to better understand how to work as a team. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Mediation & Negotiation Ukraine in the balance Harvard Law negotiation expert Rachel Viscomi ’01 analyzes the playing field as the U.S. and its allies confront Russian troop buildup on Ukraine’s borders. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Mediation & Negotiation, National and International Security ‘Don’t just be a lawyer. Be a strategist’ The Center on the Legal Profession convenes experts from public and private sectors for a day-long symposium on crisis lawyering. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Corporate Governance, Human Rights, International, Mediation & Negotiation A special responsibility As special master of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund, or VCF, Rupa Bhattacharyya ’95 is working to ensure that fair compensation goes to the victims of the attacks. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Civil Rights, Family, Gender & Children, Health Law & Policy, Human Rights, Mediation & Negotiation, National and International Security, Public Service Faculty on the move With the start of the academic year, a look at nine faculty who have joined Harvard Law School, been promoted, or taken on new roles in 2021. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Administrative Law, Civil Rights, Constitutional, Election Law, Housing Law, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, Land Use Law, Legal History, Local Government Law, Mediation & Negotiation, Property Law, Public Service Rachel Viscomi named clinical professor of law Rachel A. Viscomi ’01 has been appointed clinical professor of law at Harvard Law School. Viscomi, who was appointed director of the Harvard Negotiation and Mediation Clinical Program (HNMCP) in 2018, was most recently an assistant clinical professor of law. Themes: Faculty Scholarship Topics: Clinical Practice, Mediation & Negotiation Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Negotiation Law Review Loop navigation Page 1 of 20 First Previous 1 2 3 … 20 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.