Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Health & Environment Formula Shortage: Experts Caution Against Homemade Alternatives Texas A&M AgriLife Extension professionals recommend parents seek the advice of a pediatrician. By Paul Schattenberg, Texas A&M AgriLife Communications May 17, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Staff at Mother & Child Education Center throw away recalled Similac baby formula, which the company would not replace or reimburse because the donated supplies did not come with a receipt, on May 12, 2022 in Portland, Oregon. Nathan Howard/Getty Images With the shortage of infant formula on store shelves and uncertainty of when there may be new supplies, many people are turning to the internet and social media to find out how to make their own infant formula at home. Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service personnel are advising worried mothers to check with their pediatricians about alternatives for feeding their infants to avoid nutrient and safety concerns surrounding homemade formulas. “Due to product recalls earlier this year and supply chain shortages, Google, Facebook and other social media outlets have had a surge in articles or posts featuring how to make your own infant formula at home,” said Danielle Krueger, AgriLife Extension program specialist and registered dietitian nutritionist, Bryan College-Station. “But making your own infant formula at home is not recommended and may even put your baby at risk. It can limit the necessary nutrients infants need for proper brain and overall development.” According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, making homemade infant formula can result not only in a loss of important nutrients but increase the risk of bacterial contamination from water or household ingredients. Seek A Pediatrician’s Advice Krueger noted some infants may be on specialized formulas which can be easier digested or tolerated due to other conditions. “Changing the ratio and type of formula may cause gastrointestinal and other complications for infants if a homemade formula is substituted,” she said. Krueger said it is important to know which infant formula is best for your baby, and to reach out to your pediatrician for help in determining which, if any, infant formula can be substituted to assure your infant’s nutritional needs. “Since infant needs change as they age, there is a lot of opportunity for a recommendation based on the age of the infant,” she said. “If the infant is closer to one year of age, the formula suggestions may be very different than for an infant that’s 4 or 6 months old.” Krueger said people can also dial 2-1-1 for local information about resources for infant formula. “But when in doubt, talk to your pediatrician,” she said. “They can help you make the best decision for your baby’s health. They may also have resources to get families what they need and can help direct them to an appropriate formula or substitution.” Unique Nutritional Needs, Health Concerns According to Jenna Anding, AgriLife Extension nutrition specialist in Texas A&M Department of Nutrition, Bryan-College Station, a developing baby needs vitamins and minerals including iron, vitamin D, omega-3 fatty acids, folic acid and just the right ratio of nutrients. “While some may be inclined to make their own baby formula due to the current shortage, this can present many opportunities to limit the nutrients your baby needs to grow,” Anding said. “Breastmilk and baby formula provide the right balance of essential nutrients your baby needs to support their growing and developing bodies.” Anding said infant formula is specifically designed to mirror the calorie and nutrients found in breastmilk. In addition, commercially developed formulas are reviewed and monitored to limit any risk of toxicity and allow for proper growth and development of the infant. For more information on infant formula shortages and best practices visit http://www.healthychildren.org. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares This article by Paul Schattenberg originally appeared on AgriLife Today. Related Stories Health & Environment Beat The Summer Heat Texas A&M AgriLife Extension experts give tips on avoiding heat stress, exhaustion and heatstroke. Health & Environment Texas Crawfish Acres Expand, Weights Low Due To Cool Weather While the state is still far behind Louisiana in crawfish production, Texas holds a strong No. 2 spot, with around 9,500 total crawfish acres. Health & Environment Preliminary Agriculture Losses From Texas Wildfires Total $23.1 Million Texas A&M AgriLife Extension economists' tally includes fence damage, lost grazing value and livestock deaths. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Message Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top