Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Clinical Pathology Expert Joins Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine George Watson July 1, 2020 Seth Chapman brings experience and knowledge from academia, private practice and corporate laboratory settings to the growing faculty. Over the course of his educational and professional veterinary career, Seth Chapman has had the opportunity to experience and gain knowledge in the areas of clinical and anatomic pathology at some of the best veterinary schools in the country. His experience has encompassed all varieties of animals, from large to small and everything in between. Through internships, residency and into his career as an educator, Chapman has been fortunate to work on some innovative cancer treatment areas. Now, Chapman brings that knowledge and experience to the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo as an associate professor of clinical pathology. He began his duties on Wednesday (July 1). "I look forward to serving the great state of Texas once again and joining an innovative program that will help meet the needs of Amarillo and the rural and regional communities of West Texas and beyond," said Chapman, who earned his master's degree in veterinary pathology while also performing a clinical pathology residency and small animal medicine and surgery internship at Texas A&M University. While at Lincoln Memorial University's College of Veterinary Medicine, Chapman served as the director of the clinical pathology program and also was an instructor in histology, internal medicine and integrative diagnostics. He served on multiple committees and was involved in numerous research projects, primarily involving analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples in horses suffering from inflammatory airway disease. Since 2017, he also has served as a clinical pathology consultant and adjunct faculty at the University of Kentucky Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory. Prior to his time at Lincoln Memorial, Chapman spent eight years at IDEXX Reference Laboratories in Worthington, Ohio as a veterinary clinical pathologist. While at IDEXX, he worked with specialists in the application of flow cytometry, a technique that detects and measures the physical and chemical characteristics of cells or particles, for diagnosis of canine and feline hematopoietic neoplasia, or malignancies of tissues that lead to diseases like lymphoma and leukemia, among others. This led to work on multiple canine bone marrow transplants in animals with multicentric lymphoma, which is offered at only a few institutions across the U.S. Chapman spent two years (2003-05) in private practice at Northwest Tennessee Veterinary Services in Dresden, Tennessee, where he said he gained an appreciation for providing practical veterinary medical care in a rural community. "We are so lucky to be joined by Dr. Chapman," said Guy Loneragan, dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. "He has rich and diverse professional experiences from which our students will greatly benefit. He expertise also will enable transformative interdisciplinary research that could for example improve equine respiratory health or benefit cancer detection and treatment in our pets." Chapman earned his bachelor's degree from the University of the South in Sewanee, Tennessee and his Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Tennessee in 2002. He then served his internship at Texas A&M before going into the private practice. After two years in practice, Chapman returned to Texas A&M as a resident in clinical pathology, becoming board certified and earning Diplomate status from the American College of Veterinary Pathologist (ACVP). During this time, he also earned his master's degree in veterinary pathology from Texas A&M. Chapman is a member of the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) and the American Society of Veterinary Clinical Pathology. "Dr. Seth Chapman has a knack for microscopic cells. He has an expertise in clinical pathology, teaching students how to read and interpret bloodwork, urine samples and cellular aspirates," said John Dascanio, senior associate dean for academic and student affairs. "He will impart the core knowledge that students will use every day in their practice of veterinary medicine to diagnosis disease. He has a passion to teach students and to ensure that they personally succeed." Chapman becomes the 17th faculty member for the School of Veterinary Medicine: Loneragan Dascanio Britt Conklin, associate dean for clinical programs David Dutton, professor of surgery Bethany Schilling, assistant professor of general veterinary practice László Hunyadi, professor of medicine Nancy Zimmerman, professor of surgery Jerry Black, visiting professor Howard Rodriguez-Mori, associate professor of Library and Information Sciences Marcelo Schmidt, assistant professor of curriculum and assessment Jason Fritzler, associate professor of microbiology Alexandra Calle, assistant professor for microbiology Joshua Rowe, associate professor of anatomy Ryan Williams, associate professor of economics and public policy Kelly Cukrowicz, professor of psychological health Michael Josue Cruz Penn, assistant professor of anatomic pathology Additional faculty members will be added over the summer and fall. About the School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. In June 2019, Gov. Greg Abbott signed into law the biennial state budget, which appropriated $17.35 million for the School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo that will go toward operational needs in order to get the school up and running. The appropriation included language directing Texas Tech to move forward in establishing the school. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, Experts, Faculty, Research, Stories, Veterinary School, Vice President for Research, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile School of Veterinary Medicine Thanks to the generosity of Amarillo and communities across Texas, and the commitment of legislators from around the state, the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, established in 2018, is working to enroll its first class in the fall of 2021, pending approval by the AVMA Council on Education. The School of Veterinary Medicine will recruit and select students with a passion to practice and succeed in rural and regional communities. Its curriculum is focused on the competencies and skills necessary for success in practices that support these communities. Texas Tech's innovative and cost-efficient model partners with the wider community of veterinary practices across the state to provide clinical, real-world experiential learning. Twitter Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2022 1:14 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index