Skip to main Open Menu Texas A&M Today Texas A&M Today Science & Tech Business & Government Arts & Humanities Campus Life Health & Environment COVID‑19 Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit Subscribe Press Room Search Campus Life 2022 Provost Academic Professional Track Faculty Teaching Excellence Award Recipients Named Recipients of this award will receive $5,000 to support teaching innovations and teaching-related projects and activities. By Sherri MacWillie, Center for Teaching Excellence March 1, 2022 Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Ten Texas A&M University faculty were selected for the 2021-2022 Provost Academic Professional Track Faculty Teaching Excellence Award. This award encourages, recognizes and rewards faculty who provide students with meaningful learning experiences, embrace effective teaching approaches and value student-centered learning. The 2022 recipients of the Provost Academic Professional Track Faculty Teaching Excellence Award are: Salah Ayari, Department of International Studies, College of Liberal Arts Adrienne Brundage, Department of Entomology, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Karen Farmer, Department of Accounting, Mays Business School Joyce Juntune, Department of Educational Psychology, College of Education and Human Development Judith Linneman, Department of Sociology, College of Liberal Arts Terri Pantuso, Department of English, College of Liberal Arts James Pennington, Department of Chemistry, College of Science Oksana Shatalov, Department of Mathematics, College of Science Aakash Tyagi, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, College of Engineering Christina Wiederwohl, Department of Oceanography, College of Geosciences Recipients of this award will receive a $5,000 bursary to support teaching innovations and teaching-related projects and activities. Learn more about this award from The Center for Teaching Excellence. Share Tweet 0 Shares Share Share Tweet 0 Shares Media contact: Sherri MacWillie, smacwillie@tamu.edu Related Stories Campus Life PVAMU And Texas A&M Announce Faculty Winners Of $400K Joint PRISE Research Grants For 2022 Collaborative research areas include agriculture, architecture, science, education, engineering and psychology. Campus Life Association of Former Students Distinguished Achievement Award Recipients Named In recognition of their achievements, each recipient will receive a cash gift, an engraved watch, and a commemorative plaque. Campus Life Four A&M Professors Named As NAI Senior Members National Academy of Inventors will induct Grunlan, Höök, Polycarpou and Ware during its June annual meeting in Phoenix. Recent Stories Science & Tech Texas A&M Chemist Elected To National Academy Of Sciences Membership is considered one of the highest honors in science. Culture & Society Communication Professor Featured In History Channel Documentary Leroy Dorsey is interviewed in the Memorial Day documentary exploring the rhetoric of Theodore Roosevelt. Science & Tech Mysterious Dunes On Jupiter’s Moon Explained By Scientists’ New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. View Archives → Subscribe Subscribe to the Texas A&M Today newsletter for the latest news and stories every week. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Message Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Pinterest YouTube Reddit News Hub Archives Contact: 979.845.4641 tamunews@tamu.edu © 2022 Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Back to top