Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Spring Commencement Simultaneously Praises, Displays Resilience, Adaptability Glenys Young May 17, 2021 (PHOTO GALLERY) In its first post-COVID-19 graduation ceremonies, Texas Tech begins a return to normalcy. Resilience and adaptability were on full display at Texas Tech University's spring commencement ceremonies over the weekend, not only in the message to the class of 2021, which endured and overcame a global pandemic, but also in the university's determination to take a purposeful step forward in its aftermath. Only a week after hosting a special in-person ceremony for more than 1,000 graduates from May, August and December 2020, whose original commencements were held virtually because of COVID-19, Texas Tech held a triumphant return to almost-normal, bringing together nearly 1,600 graduates for an in-person, open-air celebration Friday (May 14) in Jones AT&T Stadium. And almost-normal it was. Students clustered for small group photos before the ceremony, and faculty members walked through, greeting those they'd worked with. Apart from the references in President Lawrence Schovanec's speech to COVID-19, and the ceremony's location – the stadium, rather than the usual commencement location, United Supermarkets Arena – it would have been easy to forget how recently Texas Tech, and the country, were in the pandemic's shadow. Yet, when anticipated severe weather threatened to disrupt Saturday's (May 15) joint ceremony for more than 2,100 additional graduates, the university did what has become second nature over the last year – pivoting, seemingly seamlessly, to offer instead four separate commencement ceremonies in the United Supermarkets Arena. It was the most recent show of what Texas Tech has always done best: adapt and overcome. “You'll have a unique story to tell about the challenges you faced in completing your college degree,” Schovanec said in his address to the graduates. “Through your selfless attitude, your willingness to cooperate and your compassion for others, you helped us reopen our doors last fall and allowed us to operate safely in the midst of a global pandemic. Each of you have learned to be more resourceful and adaptable – two traits that will serve you well for the rest of your life. “How you have responded to these challenges is more important, more defining and more lasting than the circumstances you've confronted. Like generations of Red Raiders before you, you did what you had to do to get the job done, and you worked to be part of the solution.” Friday evening's ceremony honored the Graduate School and the College of Arts & Sciences. Saturday's 9 a.m. ceremony honored the Jerry S. Rawls College of Business and the Honors College; 11 a.m. ceremony the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering, the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts and the College of Architecture; 1 p.m. ceremony the College of Media & Communication and the College of Human Sciences; and 3 p.m. ceremony the College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources, the College of Education and University Programs. As the university's newest 3,700-plus graduates joined the ranks of Texas Tech alumni, they received a complimentary one-year membership to the Texas Tech Alumni Association, made possible by the Office of the President, and a one-year membership to the Red Raider Club, made possible by a generous gift from alumni George and Linda McMahan. Graduates turned their tassels to the left, and those with the official class ring turned it outward, becoming part of an ever-growing family of Texas Tech alumni. They were then lauded by thousands of their immediate family members in the audience. Undoubtedly remembering the trials of the previous year, many of those mothers, fathers, siblings, grandparents and children found a new appreciation in being present to witness such a momentous occasion. For his part, Schovanec encouraged the graduates go forth, embracing both the opportunities and challenges ahead. Along the way, he urged, they should stay committed to their personal and Texas Tech families, as well as to their friends, communities and to causes that make a difference in the world. “‘Strive for honor evermore' – that is an essential part of what Texas Tech is about,” Schovanec said. “Because you are Red Raiders, there is an expectation that you will change the world for the better. I know you will add to that legacy.” Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, College of Architecture, College of Arts and Sciences, College of Education, College of Engineering, College of Media and Communication, College of Visual and Performing Arts, Feature Stories, Graduate School, President, Rawls College of Business Administration, Stories, TTU Features, Traditions, Veterinary School, college of human sciences, honors college, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile Office of the President The Office of the President is committed to enhancing Texas Tech University's presence as a top tier national public research university through efforts that promote even greater levels of student success, academic quality and reputation, research and creative activities, and outreach dimensions. For information about future events, please visit President's Events. Twitter Texas Tech Commencement Watch from home TV: Suddenlink channel 128 Streamed Online: Click here For more information about commencement, including maps, parking, hotels and college receptions, click here. School of Law Hooding Ceremony Streamed Online: Click here (May ceremony only) Wisdom for the Windfall Financial Advice for Graduates Before spending graduation money, Texas Tech experts point out new responsibilities often overlooked. Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 13, 2022 9:32 PM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index