Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Topic: Public Service LGBTI communities from around the world affirm their right to health At a recent public consultation, the U.N. Independent Expert on sexual orientation and gender identity Victor Madrigal-Borloz, a senior visiting researcher at Harvard Law School’s Human Rights Program, gathered testimonies on the well-being of LGBTI communities around the world. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Family, Gender & Children, International, Public Service Figueres receives 2022 Great Negotiator award at HLS As the former executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Christiana Figueres was in charge of the 2015 climate talks in Paris. In a conscious departure from earlier conferences, she declared that any agreement should be unanimous, rather than merely a consensus. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Environmental, Mediation & Negotiation, Public Service A haven for taxpayers Harvard Law’s Federal Tax Clinic helps low-income taxpayers shed their debts — and stress. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Clinical Practice, Public Policy, Public Service, Taxation and Finance Tackling issues at the intersection of technology, democracy, and human rights Susan Hendrickson ’93, the new executive director of the Berkman Klein Center, recently spoke with Harvard Law Today about her career path, her advice for law students, what keeps her up at night and why, nevertheless, she continues to be optimistic about tech. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Business, Cyberlaw, Ethics, Human Rights, Intellectual Property, International, Public Policy, Public Service, Science & Technology ‘There’s just no experience that replaces asking people for their vote’ The Harvard Law School Democrats recently hosted a Q&A with White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain ’87. who answered students’ questions on the administration’s agenda on voting rights, student loan debt, global vaccine inequities, the war in Ukraine, and other hot topics. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: National and International Security, Public Policy, Public Service Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Law School Democrats Loretta Lynch is Harvard Law School’s 2022 Class Day speaker The Hon. Loretta Lynch ’84, who was Attorney General of the United States from 2015 to 2017, will be this year’s speaker for the Class Day ceremonies at Harvard Law School. Themes: Teaching & Learning Topics: Civil Rights, Constitutional, Criminal, Public Service Former secretary of housing and urban development Julián Castro named Klinsky Professor of Practice for Leadership and Progress Former San Antonio mayor and HUD secretary Julián Castro ’00 was named the Klinsky Professor of Practice for Leadership and Progress. He will teach a course next fall on leadership in urban communities. Themes: Alumni Focus, Teaching & Learning Topics: Housing Law, Local Government Law, Public Policy, Public Service ‘We Ukrainians know Putin all too well’ For international law expert Svitlana Starosvit LL.M. ’13 S.J.D. ’22, Russia’s military assault on Ukraine is horrifying yet unsurprising because, she says, “We Ukrainians know Putin all too well.” Themes: Student Spotlights Topics: Cyberlaw, International, National and International Security, Public Service President Biden nominates Ketanji Brown Jackson ’96 for Supreme Court Ketanji Brown Jackson ’96 was nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court by President Biden. If confirmed, Jackson would be the first Black woman to serve on the nation’s highest court. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Constitutional, Criminal, Legal History, Public Service ‘Grateful for it all’ Harvard Law alum Esther Mulder ‘14 discusses her journey from foster care to a career in public defense. Themes: Alumni Focus Topics: Clinical Practice, Public Service Loop navigation Page 1 of 94 First Previous 1 2 3 … 94 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.