Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Today Menu Search TTU Texas Tech Today Texas Tech Receives $1.5M Grant to Continue Addressing Rural Teacher Shortage Robert Stein May 10, 2022 The College of Education is spearheading a multi-institution effort to recruit and train rural teachers in West Texas. After a successful first year, West Texas Rural Education Partnership received a $1.5 million gift from the Prentice Farrar Brown & Alline Ford Brown Foundation to continue addressing a shortage of qualified teachers across rural West Texas. Since its launch in April 2021, the Texas Tech University-led alliance of West Texas universities, community colleges and school districts has used collaborative, research-based strategies to recruit and prepare 48 aspiring educators who are committed to teaching in 18 different rural districts. Over the next three years, the West Texas Rural Education Partnership – with members including Texas Tech, West Texas A&M University, University of Texas at El Paso and University of Texas Permian Basin – aims to expand until it produces at least 252 teachers each year who will enter classrooms in 84 rural districts. “We're seeing that Texas Tech is a leader in serving the needs of rural schools, but much more is needed,” said Doug Hamman, director of West Texas Rural Education Partnership and chair of Texas Tech's Department of Teacher Education, housed in the College of Education. “It will require the efforts of all the school districts, universities and community colleges in the partnership to finally solve the teacher shortage in rural schools. That's what the partnership is aiming to do, and everyone involved is stepping up to make this happen.” To reach its goal, West Texas Rural Education Partnership will continue its focus on establishing and expanding “grow your own” programs in partnership with school districts around Texas. The programs seek to develop local talent by allowing residents of rural communities to stay where they live while completing a high-quality, university-based educator preparation program. School districts often work in collaboration with universities and community colleges to recruit and prepare the candidates. Other research-backed methods employed by West Texas Rural Education Partnership include paid residencies in which school districts pay teacher candidates to train for a full year alongside a mentor teacher on a district campus. Such residencies offer stipends of $20,000 or more so students do not have to work during their residencies, and university faculty are typically based on the district campus to provide support and guidance. Studies and experience at Texas Tech have shown residencies and “grow your own” programs to be reliable for recruiting and preparing teachers who are committed to staying long-term in rural school districts and immediately improving student achievement. West Texas Rural Education Partnership also employs a rural schools liaison to assist school districts in addressing teacher talent needs. Shawn Mason, former superintendent of Crosbyton Consolidated Independent School District, serves in the role. “I think we're leading the state in high-quality teacher preparation,” said Clifton Tanabe, dean of the College of Education at University of Texas at El Paso. “Preparation programs across Texas are trying to create effective pathways for talented educators to get into schools so kids in those schools have the best educational outcomes possible. That's what University of Texas at El Paso is trying to do, and that's what Texas Tech is trying to do. We're all in.” The members of West Texas Rural Education Partnership are: Amarillo College El Paso Community College Howard College Midland College Odessa College South Plains College Western Texas College Texas Tech University University of Texas Permian Basin University of Texas at El Paso West Texas A&M University Texas Tech's College of Education and Hamman launched West Texas Rural Education Partnership after witnessing a lack of cooperation among Texas institutions of higher education and school districts. The need to work together was underscored by a 2017 report from Texas Education Agency's Texas Rural Schools Task Force, which emphasized the state's pressing teacher shortage and recommended “grow your own” pathways and closer school-university partnerships as potential solutions for rural areas. The urgency has only increased after the COVID-19 pandemic led many teachers to leave the profession. “At a time when education and political leaders are confronting teacher shortages, this project provides a blueprint for a long-term solution,” Hamman said. “It will require us to put community needs above all else so that university systems and community college systems collaborate to address this pressing educational issue.” The partnership was launched in April 2021 and members gathered in December and June for convenings on Texas Tech's campus, where they discussed cooperation across post-secondary institutions, degree alignment between community colleges and universities and strategies for delivering quality teacher preparation at a distance from the university campus. Additional convenings are planned for this year. “It was very encouraging as an educator and as a rural superintendent to see these institutions coming together in the face of adversity to come up with a plan,” said Chris Smith, superintendent of Brownfield Independent School District (ISD), which partners with Texas Tech's TechTeach educator preparation program. “There's never been a time where it's so essential for us to come together and unite and serve for a good cause. We're on the clock. What happens to rural districts during the next five to 10 years is going to dramatically impact the culture and even the lifeblood of our communities.” The $1.5 million gift funding West Texas Rural Education Partnership is from Prentice Farrar Brown & Alline Ford Brown Foundation, a Bank of America, N.A., Trustee. The foundation previously provided a $500,000 gift to launch the partnership. West Texas Rural Education Partnership's mission is to develop and implement an inter-institutional strategy that will provide a pathway to teaching in rural schools for community members, high school students and existing teacher candidates. Ultimately, the goal is to help staff fill vacancies, dramatically reduce rates of attrition and prepare teachers who are truly committed to their rural, West Texas communities. Find Texas Tech news, experts and story ideas at Texas Tech Today Media Resources or follow us on Twitter. tags: Academics, College of Education, Stories, provost Texas Tech University A new era of excellence is dawning at Texas Tech University as it stands on the cusp of being one of the nation's premier research institutions. Research and enrollment numbers are at record levels, which cement Texas Tech's commitment to attracting and retaining quality students. In fall 2020, the university achieved a goal more than a decade in the making, reaching a total student population of more than 40,000. In 2018, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education again placed Texas Tech among its top doctoral universities in the nation in the “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech is one of 94 public institutions nationally and 131 overall to achieve this prestigious recognition. Quality students need top-notch faculty. Texas Tech is home to a diverse, highly revered pool of educators who excel in teaching, research and service. The university strives to foster an environment that celebrates student accomplishment above all else. Texas Tech is large enough to provide the best in facilities and academics but prides itself on being able to focus on each student individually. The momentum for excellence at Texas Tech has never been greater. Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linked In Flickr Foursquare TTU Mobile College of Education <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The College of Education at Texas Tech University offers a full range of programs, including 9 doctoral degrees, 10 master's degrees, two bachelor's degrees and numerous specializations which can lead to careers in public or private education as teachers, professors, administrators, counselors and diagnosticians. Programs in the college are housed in three departments. The Department of Curriculum & Instruction offers advanced degrees that prepare leaders, researchers, and professors with the knowledge, skills, and practical application experience needed to analyze, construct, and evaluate curricula in ways that create optimal learning conditions for all learners. Language and literacy, bilingual education and STEM education are just a few of the specializations offered by C&I. The Department of Educational Psychology & Leadership consists of a diverse group of academic programs that equip students with a comprehensive knowledge of learning, motivation, development, and educational foundations. The disciplines of counseling and school psychology are housed within the EP&L department as are programs to prepare future college administrators, primary and secondary school and district leaders, as well as practical and academic educational psychologists. The Department of Teacher Education focuses solely on teacher preparation, ensuring that teacher candidates are ready for the classroom on day one. The Teacher Education Department is home to TechTeach, an innovative teacher preparation program that puts teacher candidates into public school classrooms for a full year and requires that students pass teacher certification tests prior to entering the classroom. Various paths to teaching careers, including fast-track distance programs statewide and alternative certification options, are also housed in this department. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram TechTeach Across Texas TechTeach Across Texas is our fast-track, one-year teacher preparation program, combining intense clinical experiences with applicable online courses in district-based partnerships around the state. You will receive classroom coaching from skilled, experienced Site Coordinators and Mentor Teachers, and be able to immediately apply principles from your practical coursework. TechTeach Across Texas allows students to complete a Bachelor of Science degree and earn teacher certification in one calendar year. Our program has earned top marks from the National Council on Teacher Quality, placing it in the top 35 programs in the nation.Facebook Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock,Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 10, 2022 9:32 AM Texas Tech Today Multimedia Texas Tech Today Back Videos Podcasts Archives Media Resources Emergency Communications Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index