Themes Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 News Archive Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment Bulletin Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Winter 2022 Four programs pursue research and address current topics at the intersection of religion and the law Summer 2021 Deception spreads faster than truth on social media. Who — if anyone — should stop it? Fall 2020 Putting the 2020 race in historical context and considering its impact on our democracy Summer 2020 From grappling with the challenges of an unprecedented health crisis to addressing longstanding racial injustices, HLS affiliates respond Winter 2020 From law and forgiveness to politics and the integrity of the Supreme Court to an insider’s view on foreign policy, HLS faculty tackle big issues with scholarship, candor, and compassion Summer 2019 How have U.S. presidents found ways to expand their powers to achieve their goals? View All Issues Menu Harvard Law Today Search for: Submit Browse Bulletin Issues Browse By Topic Topics Business Civil Rights Clinical Practice Constitutional Criminal Cyberlaw Environmental Ethics Family, Gender & Children Health Law & Policy Human Rights Intellectual Property International Legal History Mediation & Negotiation National Security & Terrorism Public Service Science & Technology Sports & Entertainment News Archive Alumni Focus Teaching & Learning Student Spotlights Faculty Scholarship HLS 200 Latest Stories In Alumni Focus: Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 View All Stories In Alumni Focus Latest Stories In Teaching & Learning: ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ View All Stories In Teaching & Learning Latest Stories In Student Spotlights: ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Highlights of Commencement 2022 View All Stories In Student Spotlights Latest Stories In Faculty Scholarship: Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change View All Stories In Faculty Scholarship Latest Stories In HLS 200: In the Spirit Convening for the common good HLS 200 finale celebrates clinics View All Stories In HLS 200 Student Spotlights Stories about students exploring law and justice ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ Harvard Law Today spoke to a few staff members who made the Commencement Day possible to find out how they support Commencement, what preparing for a triple graduation takes, and why this is one of the most special days of the year. Themes: Student Spotlights Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School From Orientation to Commencement, a look at a year at Harvard Law School. Themes: Student Spotlights Highlights of Commencement 2022 A look at HLS Commencement, from dawn ’til dusk. Themes: Student Spotlights Reflections of the Class of 2022 Graduating J.D.s and LL.M.s reflect on their law school experience and share their hopes for the future. Themes: Student Spotlights Gallery: Harvard Law School Class Day 2022 The Class of 2022 celebrated Class Day outdoors with friends and family, faculty and staff, and special guests. Themes: Student Spotlights Students from the Class of 2022 honored Each year, a selection of Harvard Law students from the graduating class are recognized for their outstanding leadership, citizenship, compassion, and dedication to their studies and the profession. Themes: Student Spotlights Students honored with Dean’s Awards for Community Leadership The Dean’s Awards for Community Leadership recognize a number of graduating students who contribute time and energy to making the Harvard Law School community a better place through involvement in student organizations, community service groups, and individual efforts. Themes: Student Spotlights Emily Chazen and Ivanka Canzius awarded Westfall Memorial Award Emily Chazen and Ivanka Canzius are this year’s recipients of the Westfall Memorial Award, presented annually to recognize student contributions to creating community within a first-year section and the wider class. Themes: Student Spotlights Kareem Carryl receives Righeimer Prize for student citizenship Kareem Carryl is this year’s recipient of the Frank Righeimer Jr. Prize, awarded annually to a graduating student or students in recognition of exceptional citizenship within the HLS community. Themes: Student Spotlights Student Orgs & Journals: Harvard Black Law Students Association Top five photo ops for commencement Harvard Law School’s beautiful campus provides excellent backdrops for Class Day and Commencement photos. Themes: Student Spotlights Loop navigation Page 1 of 74 First Previous 1 2 3 … 74 Next Last Resources HLS Public Calendar Information for Journalists Photography and Multimedia Editorial Staff HLS News Archive Harvard Law Bulletin Archive Contact Us Submit Feedback Harvard Law School Harvard University Emergency Information Accessibility Follow Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Today@Law News@Law Calendar@Law RSS © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.