Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu BrownTogether Campaign An aspirational strategic plan to elevate the University to the highest level of excellence in our history deserved an equally aspirational campaign. In BrownTogether, we got it. Breadcrumb Home Giving Sub Navigation In This Section How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift BrownTogether Campaign An aspirational strategic plan to elevate the University to the highest level of excellence in our history deserved an equally aspirational campaign. In BrownTogether, we got it. BrownTogether campaign extended With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. READ THE FULL STORY More than ever, the world needs the full measure of Brown: its distinctive blend of courageous thinking, collaborative scholarship and commitment to the common good. BrownTogether, the comprehensive $4 billion fundraising campaign, is helping the University build on its distinction through critical investments in: Our People. The diverse community of scholars—faculty, graduate students, and undergraduates—united in the pursuit of new knowledge and a commitment to improving lives. Education and Research. Programs focused on examining big questions and finding solutions to global problems by working across academic boundaries. Campus and Community. A place where our students and faculty can drive innovation and where openness and collaboration are supported and seen as critical to success. The Brown Annual Fund. Immediate-use funds that allow for strategic deployment of resources—where and when they are most needed—and enhanced capacity to address emerging opportunities. With your help, Brown will be perfectly positioned to transcend this century's challenges. Now—and in the years to come. Together, we are Brown. Campaign Progress Our People Untapped Potential / Unlimited Possibilities Exceptional teaching. Distinguished scholarship. Collaborative research. One of the world’s most distinctive experiences for undergraduate, graduate and medical students: The people of Brown—talented, thoughtful individuals of intellectual rigor, generous spirit, and varied perspectives—define all that Brown is and can be. Together, we are strengthening their work by: Building and sustaining a world-class faculty composed of leading scholars who are also inspirational teachers. Expanding opportunity and access through a more generous financial aid program for low- and middle-income students and families that supports our commitment to meet the full demonstrated financial aid need for all undergraduates. Creating a diverse and inclusive community capable of addressing the critical opportunities and issues of our time. Education and Research Empowering Collaboration / Advancing Knowledge Health disparities and improving population health. Climate change. Racial injustice and income inequality. Complexities of human behavior. Social implications of technology: Through education and collaborative research, we tackle the complex questions and challenges of the 21st century: Together, we are building on our strengths and positioning Brown for even greater leadership by: Focusing on nine areas of inquiry—such as deciphering disease; creating peaceful, just, and prosperous societies; and cultivating creative expression—that require multidisciplinary perspectives. Fostering collaborative and life-changing research in brain science, economics, public health, sustainability, and computer science. Funding educational enhancements to our signature Open Curriculum, including the creation of the Brown Teaching Fellows Programs and an Engaged Scholars program. Linking students and alumni through internships and mentoring opportunities. Campus and Community Evolving Campus / Inspiring Community Labs. Libraries. Athletics venues. Gathering spaces: Brown’s campus encourages innovation and reflects our defining values of excellence, openness, collaboration, and sustainability. Together, we are changing the landscape of our University by: Renovating heritage properties to accommodate the needs of our 21st-century learning community. Constructing new academic, research, and performance facilities. Building and improving team facilities and playing fields that enable our student-athletes to compete at the highest level. Seeking a full array of programs to support our students—including first-generation and international students. Annual Fund Today's Vision / Tomorrow's Promise Academic excellence. Educational Access. Service to society and making a difference in the world. These are Brown’s values, and Brunonians express their commitment to sustaining these values by giving immediate-use gifts through the Brown Annual Fund’s family of funds. Together, we are ensuring a bright future by: Sustaining financial aid and graduate student support—and giving the University the ability to nimbly respond to critical emerging needs—through The Brown Fund. Providing essential resources and enhancing the student-athlete experience through the Brown Athletics Annual Fund. Supporting the individual goals of the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health, and The Warren Alpert Medical School through the professional school annual funds. Investing in high-priority University initiatives like diversity and inclusion and campus sustainability through various impact funds. https://www.youtube.com/embed/GIWKk0pXhC4 Together We Are Brown Brown University is in the midst of a $4B comprehensive campaign that is energizing its community and creating a lasting impact across the campus. Want to know more about what BrownTogether helps makes possible? Discover the schools, centers, programs, and focus areas we're supporting—and learn how you can help. MORE AREAS OF SUPPORT Related Stories Alumni & Friends What’s next for BrownTogether? March 25, 2022 We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. Read Article Open details for What’s next for BrownTogether? Alumni & Friends $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended March 1, 2022 With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended Alumni & Friends 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether December 10, 2021 From researchers to recent grads, discover the people who illustrate the heart of Brown’s most ambitious campaign. Read Article Open details for 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether Related Links How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Cabinet Brown Annual Fund Giving to Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Giving to Athletics Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BrownTogether Campaign Open details for BrownTogether Campaign Bookmark this Page