Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Texas Oral History Association About TOHA Statement on Racial Injustice Awards Thomas L. Charlton Lifetime Achievement Award Mary Faye Barnes Award for Excellence in Community History Projects W. Stewart Caffey Award for Excellence for Precollegiate Teaching Ken Hendrickson Best Article Award Texas History Day Student Oral History Award Meetings and Conferences 2021 Conference Resources and Newsletter Archive Texas OralHistory Locator Database (TOLD) Oral History Technology "Sound Historian" Journal Submit an Article Past Contents Texas Oral History Association Texas Oral History Association TOHA is a network for oral history practitioners that promotes the use of professional interviewing and archiving standards. Explore our site to discover who we are and what we do. We invite you to join us in our adventure to better understand both the present and the past through recording the voices of eyewitnesses to history. TOHA, an affiliate of the Oral History Association, is hosted by the Baylor University Institute for Oral History. Explore Tenth Annual Conference The Texas Oral History Association held its tenth annual conference virtually on September 24-25, 2021. This conference was hosted by Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas! Did you miss last year's virtual conference? You can view the conference sessions on our YouTube page! Learn More Sound Historian Sound Historian represents TOHA's commitment to excellence in the practice of oral history research. First published in 1993, the journal is an annual publication highlighting exemplary oral history research in multidisciplinary topics. Sound Historian is free to TOHA members and is also available for individual purchase. Institutions may establish standing order subscriptions for the journal. Learn More Texas Oral History Locator Database The Texas Oral History Locator Database, or TOLD, utilizes survey data provided by collection managers across the State of Texas to identify as many oral history collections as possible. Learn more and complete our Phase 1 survey here. Learn More Awards Newsletters Become a Member About Back TOHA Statement on Racial Injustice Awards Back Thomas L. Charlton Lifetime Achievement Award Mary Faye Barnes Award for Excellence in Community History Projects W. Stewart Caffey Award for Excellence for Precollegiate Teaching Ken Hendrickson Best Article Award Texas History Day Student Oral History Award Meetings and Conferences Back 2021 Conference Resources and Newsletter Archive Back Texas OralHistory Locator Database (TOLD) Oral History Technology "Sound Historian" Journal Back Submit an Article Past Contents General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678