Enrollment Services departments are open for in-person and virtual services. Please check the Enrollment Services Update page for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us UC Riverside Undergraduate Admissions UNIQUE. COMMITTED. REAL. Search Home Admissions First Year Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Transfer Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Transfer Admission Guarantee Majors Preparation Guide 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Schedule An Appointment Virtual Events Request Information Out-of-State Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Out-of-State First Year Out-of-State Transfer Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information International Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR International First Year International Transfer Visa & Entry Requirements Dates & Deadlines Resources & Support Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Community Engagement Outreach Black Student Experience Chicanx Latinx Student Experience Middle Eastern Student Experience Native American Student Experience Blue, Gold & Black Podcast Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Admitted Students Cost First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Majors I Want to Major In ... Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy Dates & Deadlines First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Visit Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ Events Events at UCR Slice of Life First Year: Virtual Events Transfers: Virtual Events College Fairs Virtual Admission Presentations Slice of Life News Contact Us UCR Home Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us No. 1 Top Performer on Social Mobility (U.S. News) No. 1 Top Performer on Social Mobility (U.S. News) Learn more Unique. Committed. Real. Just Like You! A unique student like you is the heart of UC Riverside. We invite — we need — your individuality, your passion, and your voice. Your kind of commitment keeps us on our toes. (And, we love that about you.) We welcome your kind of real energy — and we'll never let it fade. At UCR, we’ll challenge you with our world-class faculty, including two Nobel laureates, a Pulitzer Prize winner, countless social activists, and world influencers. You’ll find a kaleidoscope of faces, narratives, and cultures that celebrate the differences that define and the journey that unites us. We’re glad you're here — now let’s see what special experiences we can add to your story. UCR is one of 10 campuses within the prestigious University of California system — but in a class of our own. #1 UCR is the nation's leader for social mobility for the third year in row! (U.S. News & World Report, 2020–22) Top 10 UCR is one of the 10 best colleges in California. (Money Magazine, 2020) World Class UCR is among the top 11% of ranked world universities. (Center for World University Rankings, 2019–20) Distinguished Faculty UCR’s distinguished faculty boasts two Nobel Laureates and 13 members of the National Academies of Sciences and Medicine. Giving Back UCR ranks #15 in the country for community and national service. (Washington Monthly, 2020) Smart Money With graduates' mid-career pay averaging $118,400, UCR is the 12th Best College for Your Money potential. (PayScale 2019-20 College Salary Report) Admissions News May 25, 2022 UC System Implements Plan to Steady Tuition Rates UC Riverside and all other campuses in the University of California system have implemented a new cohort-based tuition model called the Tuition Stability Plan in which once an undergraduate student begins at UCR, their tuition will not be raised for... Read More » May 19, 2022 UCR Hosts Two-Week College-Prep Course for Black Women The 25x25 Project allows 9-12 grade and community college young Black women to receive free workshops and guidance as they learn about succeeding in college and to help them prepare for college while empowering them to become leaders in their... Read More » December 17, 2021 UCR Admissions Remaining Test-Free At its November meeting, the UC Board of Regents confirmed that the university system will continue to practice test-free admissions for the foreseeable future. The standardized testing requirement for first-year applicants was originally suspended in May 2020 for all applicants... Read More » December 07, 2021 Transfer Students: Fall 2022 Application Deadline Extended to Jan. 7 UC Riverside’s fall 2022 transfer application deadline has been extended to Jan. 7. Read More » View More Posts Feel the Love at UCR! We Support You Your success is our top priority. Ease into college life with help from faculty, peer mentors, and first-year learning communities. Get a tutor at the Academic Resource Center (ARC). Feel at home with eight Ethnic & Gender Centers. “Finish in Four” to receive your degree with a sooner-than-later return on your investment. We’ll even connect you to employers on campus and around the world. We Think Big At UCR, our strength lies in our diversity. You'll be joining a community of faculty and students from over 80 countries and countless cultural identities to exchange knowledge, build social mobility, and shape future leaders. To foster personal growth and expression, you can engage in more than 500 student-led groups, including cultural, spiritual, academic, artistic, and fraternity/sorority organizations. We Have Fun Students boost study-life balance with fun, friends, and newness. Work out at the state-of-the-art Student Recreation Center (SRC). Go camping or scuba diving at the beach with our Outdoor Excursion trips. Join Highlanders at one of our campus music festivals with featured artists such as Foster the People, Jhené Aiko, DJ Snake, and Kendrick Lamar. We Have Heart UCR students do good in the world. You'll find active and energized groups ready to share, support, and empower your passion for issues affecting our communities and the world. For the annual Highlander Day of Service, hundreds of UCR students, alumni, parents, and friends join forces to participate in over 25 community service events across California. HOW TO APPLY View admission requirements: First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Military Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors You Can Afford a UC Degree. We'll Show You How. A UC degree is more affordable than you might think! Grants, scholarships, loans, and work-study are offered to qualified students by our Financial Aid office, who offers Californians one of the most generous financial aid packages in the nation. In fact, UCR ranks No. 25 on Best Value School's Most Affordable Colleges in California. (2020) 87% of UCR undergraduate students who applied received some form of financial aid. 98% of financial aid recipients received gift-aid (grants and scholarships). 77% of students’ financial aid need was met with need-based financial aid. (Financial Aid Office, 2021–22) Learn How Affordable a UC Degree Can Be! First Year Transfer Out-of-State International “I chose UCR because of the opportunity to receive an education at the UC level while also being able to be represented by the diversity that the campus offers.” Ali Alshaher Class of '20, Sociology Get to Know UCR — Set in Sunny Riverside, California DISCOVER WHY THIS CAMPUS IS MADE FOR YOU With a campus size of 1,900 acres (7.68 km2), there’s a lot to discover at UCR. Check out all the different ways to explore UCR. Experience UCR through a driving tour of the campus’ architecturally aesthetic landmarks. Watch a student-hosted video that leads you through our campus. Register for one of our virtual Zoom meeting options, which connect you with unique, committed, and real Highlanders who have all the insider intel. Explore the campus using a smartphone, tablet, laptop, or computer from anywhere in the world using our 360-degree virtual tours. Explore Campus & Virtual Tours LIVE YOUR BEST LIFE IN RIVERSIDE, CALIFORNIA The City of Riverside is a vibrant college town that welcomes and supports a diverse community that is attracted to the city's perfect balance of small-town friendliness and big-city fun. Take a few steps off the UCR campus to find eclectic eateries, music venues, craft breweries, indie shops, boba spots, and coffee houses. No wonder Riverside was named the best city to live in! (Press-Enterprise, Best of IE, 2017) Learn all about Riverside and see why it's not just a great place to learn, it's an amazing place to live! Learn About City of Riverside Highlander Headlines May 20, 2022 Education Secretary calls UCR a model for delivering mental health support U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona held a roundtable discussion on mental health support with four UC Riverside students Thursday, May 19, lauding the campus as an example of how to support student needs... Read More » January 20, 2022 UCR Professor Wins Top Science Fiction Award John Jennings, a professor of media and cultural studies at UC Riverside, won a 2021 Hugo Award for the graphic novel adaptation of Octavia Butler’s science fiction novel “Parable of the Sower.” Read More » January 05, 2022 UCR Scientists Breeding Disease-Tolerant Citrus UC Riverside scientists are taking part in a project to breed citrus impervious to Citrus Greening Disease and other pathogens. Read More » Meet Unique, Committed, and Real Highlanders! Hear their unique stories. Learn about where their commitments will take them. See how real they get during their time at UCR. They chose a university that celebrates their individuality and respects their voice. Now it's your turn! Instagram Contact A Counselor Apply to UCR Get UCR in Your Inbox Visit UCR CONNECT WITH UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS ADMISSIONS First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Community Engagement Outreach Admitted Students COST First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International MAJORS I Want To Major In Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy DATES/DEADLINES First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International VISIT Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ EVENTS Events at UCR Highlander Days First-Year: Virtual Events Transfer: Virtual Events College Fairs Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3411 fax: (951) 827-6344 questions: admissions.ucr.edu/ask FIND US Follow Us: Related Links Apply to UC Riverside Athletics - Go Highlanders Events Calendar Financial Aid MyUCR - Admissions Portal Support UCR Students Tartan Soul Visit UC Riverside Disclaimer This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact Undergraduate Admissions for the most up-to-date information. Learn about our privacy policy. Campus Security and Fire Safety Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel