Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Tow Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us People Research Projects Publications Announcements & Events Opportunities About The Tow Center Mission Our Funders Staff Portal Staff Current Fellows & Research Affiliates Former Fellows & Research Affiliates Journalism and the Pandemic: A global Snapshot of Impacts COVID-19 Newsroom Cutbacks Tracker Events Newsletter Tow Center Studying digital journalism, platforms, and publishers Who We Are Led by director Emily Bell since our founding in 2010, our team of researchers examines digital journalism's industry-wide economic trends, its cultural shifts, and its relationship with the broader, constantly changing world of technology. Operating as an institute within Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism, the center provides journalists with the skills and knowledge to lead the future of digital journalism and serves as a research and development center for the profession as a whole. Contribute research Academic researchers and working journalists seeking to propose a long-term project should reach out directly to the Tow Center staff by email at [email protected]. Tow funds research into the intersection of newsrooms and new and emerging technologies and tech companies—view our publications for more information about our recent work. Apply for a Staff Position To see our current openings, click the link and search with the keyword "Tow Center." To apply, create a "master application" by following the instructions on the landing screen. Work with Tow Events Events The Tow Center regularly presents its findings in engaging panel discussions and workshops. All events are ticketed but free—RSVP through our Eventbrite page. Eventbrite In the Columbia Journalism Review In the Columbia Journalism Review Our research reports, journalistic investigations, and analyses are published by the Columbia Journalism Review. CJR A Dual Master's Degree A Dual Master's Degree Visit Columbia Journalism School's page for more information on the the computer science/journalism dual master's degree, where students are trained to produce data journalism. The Dual Degree Program In Academic Commons In Academic Commons To read our groundbreaking research reports, visit our section of Columbia's Academic Commons page where our reports are available with DOI citations and in PDF form. Academic Commons About our funders About our funders Learn more about how our institution is financially supported. Our funders Platforms and Publishers Platforms and Publishers Read more about Tow's ongoing Platforms and Publishers project, including our two scholarly reports, and view our Platform Timeline, tracking newsworthy events in the life cycles of tech platforms. Platforms and Publishers Get the latest from the Tow Center's Newsletter * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name Email Format html text Read previous newsletters. The Tow Center for Digital Journalism2950 Broadway · New York City, NY 10027 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close