Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search OFFICE OF THE PROVOST | HARVARD.EDU Harvard Trademark Program The Office of the Provost Fraud Alerts: Fraudulent Student Research Surveys Fraudulent Purchase Orders Trademark Notice Search HOME Services Trademark Protection Licensing Program Use of Harvard's Name People Policies & Forms FAQ About Contact Welcome to the Harvard Trademark Program Protecting Harvard's Trademarks Worldwide The Trademark Program handles hundreds of cases each year involving the unauthorized use of the Harvard name... Learn more Licensing Harvard's Trademarks Worldwide The Trademark Program regulates products being sold under license and generates funds to support student aid... Learn more Administering Harvard's Use-of-Name Policies The Trademark Program is responsible for administering the University's Use-of-Name policies... Learn more Welcome! The Harvard Trademark Program was established by the President and Fellows of Harvard College in order to protect Harvard’s trademarks; to regulate the use of the trademarks on products sold under license from the University; and, after covering its operational expenses, to help support Harvard’s student-aid initiatives with royalties received from the sale of licensed products. In its protection efforts, the Trademark Program oversees the registration of Harvard’s trademarks and guards against their unauthorized use by identifying and resolving cases involving the misuse or infringement of Harvard’s trademarks on a worldwide basis.... Read more Overview Use of Harvard's Name The Harvard Trademark Program administers the University’s Use-of-Name policies and guidelines, which govern the manner in which Harvard schools, departments, units, student organizations, and the wider Harvard community may use the Harvard names and insignias through representations that are appropriate, accurate, and in accord with the following applicable policies and guidelines: Policy on the Use of Harvard Names and Insignias, Use of Harvard Names and Insignias in Electronic Contexts, Endorsement Guidelines, Harvard’s Name and Alcoholic Beverages and other policies and guidelines with use-of-name components such as Principles Governing Commercial Activities, Guidelines for Events at Harvard University Sponsored by For-Profit Entities, and all other “Related Policies & Guidelines.” ... Read more about Use of Harvard's Name What do you want to do? Report unauthorized use of Harvard’s trademarks Learn about becoming a Harvard insignia licensee Inquire about the use of Harvard’s name Apply for a Harvard-wide domain Request a Harvard department/unit “@harvard.edu” email Top Questions What is the Trademark Program’s mission? How does Harvard protect its trademarks from unauthorized use? What are the basic terms of a Harvard trademark license? Where can I find information about Harvard’s “Use-of-Name” policies? How is the income from the licensing programs used? To learn about another topic, see of our Frequently Asked Questions section. Learn More About Licensing Program While its primary role is the protection of Harvard’s trademarks from unauthorized use, the Trademark Program is also responsible for licensing the University’s marks throughout the world and does so through its domestic (U.S.) and international licensing programs. Because Harvard takes a traditional approach concerning the types of products it will license and how the marks may be used on them, both licensing programs utilize a rigorous set of standards when evaluating companies requesting licenses. This is done by assessing the following: the appropriateness and quality of... Read more about Licensing Program Trademark Protection A primary function of the Trademark Program is the protection of Harvard’s trademarks worldwide, and toward that end the Trademark Program annually handles hundreds of cases involving the unauthorized use of the Harvard name and other University trademarks.... Read more about Trademark Protection Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue; Suite 738 Cambridge, MA 02138 Telephone: 617-495-9513 Email: trademark_program@harvard.edu 23e9f3c1f7031dfcc8c2437252471059 35e08a8810b6e077e40cbd99c6cf6e23 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement