Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box [email protected] Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Frequently Asked Questions About Contact Home Frequently Asked Questions About Contact Employee Bridge Login What is employee training? Student Bridge Login What is student training? Need help with Bridge? Welcome to Training Bridge is Oregon State University's training management system; it is available to OSU employees and students. Learn more about Bridge. Employee Training Employees can access required and optional trainings in Bridge. In addition to required training programs for OSU employees, other optional courses and programs are available in the Learning Library area in Bridge. Employees can self-enroll in any of the Learning Library courses. If you have questions about training requirements, please contact your supervisor. The HR FAQ page for Critical Training also provides good information on required training for employees. Student Training OSU students will use Bridge's Student Training site for trainings that are required for your OSU classes, such as lab safety. There are other as general information courses in the Student Training site –you may browse and enroll in any of the trainings. OSU student employees and graduate students will access job-related training on the Bridge Employee Training site. If you are a student and do not have an OSU job, don’t use the employee site. Your training completion record will not be saved. If you have questions about job-related training – contact your supervisor. If you have questions about course-related training – contact your instructor. More OSU Training Resources Oregon State University hosts an employee training portal that provides a comprehensive list of training and professional development opportunities. Access the employee training portal on MyOSU (ONID login required). Contact Info UIT - Academic Technologies Learning Innovation Center, Rm 466 165 SW Sackett Place Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Contact Us Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer