Skip to main content Talent Development navigation menu About Talent Development Our History Meet Our Staff Areas of Training Customized Workshops Emergency Readiness Trainings Professional Development Supervisor Development Program Toolkit for Reinventing the Workplace University Employee Orientation Workplace English Catalog and Registration Instructions Current TD Training Catalog Access My Learning Contact Training & Parking Maps Trending Resources Remote Refresh Video Library Welcome to Talent Development Talent Development creates a culture that is open to learning, and fosters continuous growth through the sharing of ideas. We provide innovative solutions including the design and delivery of high-quality initiatives that engage, inform, and inspire individual employees and teams in support of CSU’s Principles of Community and land-grant mission. Purpose: To inspire learning and innovation – creating an engaged community. IN CASE YOU MISSED IT Access the Reinventing the Workplace Toolkit CSU Talent Development has developed a Toolkit to help your team navigate the next normal. Connect with Us Recent Facebook and Resources updates available! Click below to access. CSU Talent Development Facebook Group CSU Talent Development Facebook Group NEW! We invite you to join the CSU TD Facebook group, another avenue for virtual connection and micro-learning for our staff and faculty. We will post research-based content that correlates to our curricula. Weigh in on periodic questions that will provide reflection, engagement, or respite, and generate uplifting conversations. Hope to see you there! Join the group on our Facebook page here! Trending Trending Page Please visit our Trending Resources page frequently, as trending topics and suggested articles, videos, and book resources will change and rotate. Go to Trending Resource Page TD Resources, Updates, & Forms Anti-Racism Resources Provided by OIE The Office of Inclusive Excellence website was recently relaunched in March with a variety of new resources to continue learning and engaging on topics related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. We now have a dedicated tag for anti-racism related articles and resources on our Educate Yourself blog. You can also find a comprehensive list of OIE-recommended continuing education resources here and find the most recent Employee Climate Survey data for your department or unit here to aid in your department’s work. Employee Assistance Program Resources In addition to its traditional employee health resources, the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) has posted special COVID-19 resources, including a list of webinars sponsored by the state of Colorado. EAP COVID-19 Resource Page TD Training Schedule News The TD Summer 2022 Training Catalog offers a selection of in-person classes* and remote online trainings from May 16th through August 5th. Our mix of in-person and online options will continue to cycle throughout the year. To inquire about a future training title in a specific format, please contact csutraining@colostate.edu. *We have an automatic waitlist attached to each in-person class. Please join the waitlist if the class is full and you are interested in the class. Also PLEASE unregister from the class if you can no longer attend. If you are pursuing the Supervisor Development Program, University Requirement OR the Supervisor Development Program, Certification, click the appropriate title to self-enroll on My Learning. These Programs will track your SDP progress for you. Please see additional information within the current TD catalog. Talent Development is also offering a variety of Focus Certificates, as outlined in this Focus Certificate Catalog, for all faculty and staff who want to pursue a professional development certificate in a particular area of study. We have gotten a lot of feedback about how challenging it can be to get registered for classes as they fill-up quickly. We are addressing this concern in several additional ways: Please don’t forget to unregister or withdraw as early as possible* from any training you are unable to attend – we still struggle with no shows and have participants on waitlists that would attend if space were available. *Here’s how: Go to the My Learning Dashboard, find the title from which you want to unregister, and click RESCHEDULE and/or UNREGISTER. We offer waitlists for each of the Foundation trainings, which are part of the required training for supervisors. Waitlists are automatic as well for all of our Core and Elective trainings with class size limits. These classes are also choices for the CSU Supervisor Development requirement. We monitor those that have high-demand waitlists to determine if we need to add additional sessions. Customized Workshops & Transfer Request Forms Request for Customized Workshops Contact Talent Development to explore your options and develop strategies and training tailored to the needs of your staff. Please fill out this form to register your interest in a customized training. Transfer Credit Requests If you have taken a training you would like considered for professional development credit, please fill out this request for training credit. If a form is not working, please email us at CSUTraining@ColoState.edu. Additional Professional Development Opportunities Accounting Training: For training in CSU’s accounting systems and processes, please contact the Bridge Department Administrator for Business and Financial Services, Kris King. Microsoft Suite of Tools: Microsoft offers free training resources! Start at this link. Public Speaking: While Talent Development does not offer professional development classes in public speaking, the CSU Toastmasters club is a community club open to anyone who is interested in improving their public speaking skills. Student Employee Development and Supervision: Start here for information about the Elevate Student Supervision Program. For further information contact Student Employee Development by email. Zoom Training: To educate yourself on the ins and outs of Zoom, here are two options. The Zoom help center has searchable topics and offers many videos. If you would like to test your computer system in the Zoom Sandbox, click here. You will not be entering an actual meeting however you can test your audio and video settings. Talent Development’s Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Statement: Addressing the current climate of acts of racism and oppression, we feel a strong urgency to share the anti-racism resources from OEI, that embrace the key concepts of diversity, equity and inclusion. Talent Development believes in the power of educating oneself to make positive and lasting changes. We encourage you to explore the resources and commit to listen, to learn and engage in ways you may have not done before. Access to the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Page Talent Development’s Statistics Our training numbers were impacted by the shift away from face-to-face (f2f) training due to CSU’s response to COVID-19. Thank you to OEI, HR, and OEO! We would like to thank the Office of Inclusive Excellence, Human Resources and the Office of Equal Opportunity at Colorado State University for their partnership with us. Because of these offices, we are able to offer classes such as Rules of the Road and Inclusive Excellence part one and two. We would like to express our most sincere gratitude, the Supervisory Development Program would not be possible without the help of these offices! Colorado State University Principles of Community: INCLUSION INTEGRITY RESPECT SERVICE SOCIAL JUSTICE Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University