Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Transportation Services » Parking Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Sustainable Transportation Sustainable Transportation Strategy Transit Vanpool Zipcar Skateboarding Biking Electric Vehicle Parking Biking Bike Lockers Bike Safety Campus Bike Map Bike Theft Prevention ZAP Oregon State Poker Ride Beaver Bus Beaver Bus Rental Beaver Bus Route Changes Beaver Bus Route Maps Beaver Bus Schedules Riding the Bus Maps Parking Parking Rates Permit Types Citations and Appeals Events Department Permit Purchases Waitlists, Exchanges and Refunds Motor Pool About Motor Pool Make Reservation Driver Authorization Form How to Rent Rates Accidents and Assistance Van Safety Vehicles Maintenance & Repairs Contact Policies New to OSU Visitors Prospective Students ADA Parking New Employee Transportation Guide New Student Transportation Guide About Us Annual Reports Policies Brochures OSU Transportation Committee About Parking Directory Contact Us Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Sustainable Transportation Sustainable Transportation Strategy Transit Vanpool Zipcar Skateboarding Biking Electric Vehicle Parking Biking Bike Lockers Bike Safety Campus Bike Map Bike Theft Prevention ZAP Oregon State Poker Ride Beaver Bus Beaver Bus Rental Beaver Bus Route Changes Beaver Bus Route Maps Beaver Bus Schedules Riding the Bus Maps Parking Parking Rates Permit Types Citations and Appeals Events Department Permit Purchases Waitlists, Exchanges and Refunds Motor Pool About Motor Pool Make Reservation Driver Authorization Form How to Rent Rates Accidents and Assistance Van Safety Vehicles Maintenance & Repairs Contact Policies New to OSU Visitors Prospective Students ADA Parking New Employee Transportation Guide New Student Transportation Guide About Us Annual Reports Policies Brochures OSU Transportation Committee About Parking Directory Contact Us You are here Home » New to OSU ADA Parking ADA Parking The OSU Corvallis campus has more than 350 accessible parking spaces available, which exceeds the amount required by the Americans with Disability Act (ADA). ADA Parking Options Individuals with a DMV-issued ADA placard have several parking options available on the OSU Corvallis campus. Permits are required Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. in all ADA spaces on campus. ADA parking spaces - Vehicles may park in any ADA accessible space on the Corvallis campus with a DMV-issued ADA parking placard and any valid OSU parking permit. Permits can be purchased online, in our office or at any pay station. Visitor courtesy permit - Visitors to campus with a valid ADA placard may obtain a three-hour courtesy permit at no charge by contacting Transportation Services. Vehicles displaying this permit may park in any ADA space on campus for up to three (3) hours. OSU students and employees are ineligible for ADA courtesy permits. Hourly or Daily permits - Visitors who will be on campus longer than three (3) hours can purchase daily permits online, in our office or from any pay station. Hourly permits are available at any pay station. More information about ADA placards is available online from the Oregon DMV. Wheelchair User or Wounded Warrior parking Wheelchair users and veterans with a Oregon Wounded Warrior parking placard may park in any meter with a limit of more than 30 minutes without paying the parking meter fee. Metered parking is located on the third floor of the parking garage in the Beaver Store parking area. Disabled person/Wounded Warrior placard holders need to have a valid OSU parking permit to park in an ADA space on campus. More information about this parking placard is available on the DMV website. Per the Oregon Department of Motor Vehicles, veterans with a disabled veteran license plate cannot park in a disabled person parking space without a valid disabled person parking placard. ada-parking-thumbnail.png Oregon State University ADA Parking Map Beaver Bus The Beaver Bus is a free accessible campus shuttle available to anyone on the Corvallis campus. With routes that run every 15 minutes, it is an accessible option to get around campus. Additional Accommodations Additional transportation accommodations may be available for OSU students and employees. Please contact the following organizations for more information. Equal Opportunity and Access Equal Opportunity and Access (EOA) is available to employees to discuss additional accommodations related to their workplace. Disability Access Services Disability Access Services (DAS) is a resource available to provide accommodations, education, consultation and advocacy for qualified students with disabilities at Oregon State University. ‹ Carpools and Vanpools up Electric Vehicle Parking › Contact Info OSU Transportation Services Western Building 850 SW 35th Street Corvallis, OR 97333 541-737-2583 Main Office Hours: In Person: 7:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., Monday - Friday Phone or Email: 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday - Friday Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Motor Pool 3200 SW Campus Way Corvallis, OR 97331 Motor Pool Office Hours: 7 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday - Friday Have Motor Pool questions?