Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Bikes on Transit and Columbia Shuttles Bikes on Transit and Columbia Shuttles Cycling to and from the train station is usually a faster way to travel. Bicycles are permitted on all NYC subways with the exception of folding bikes, which are not permitted on most NYC transit buses. The Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad have a one-time $5 permit that allows its riders to bring their bicycle onboard. Learn more about traveling with your bicycle aboard MTA trains and buses. Bikes can be transported on all Columbia buses. When traveling with a bike on one of Columbia’s coach buses, notify the driver and they’ll help you load your bike into the luggage compartment. When traveling with your bike on the Intercampus Shuttle, follow these instructions on using the self-loading bike rack: Loading Your Bike As the bus approaches, have your bike ready to load; remove loose items and accessories before placing on the exterior rack. Always approach the bus from the curb side. Tell the bus driver that you are loading a bike. Squeeze the rack handle and lower the folded rack to release it. Raise and release the support arm over the front tire. Make sure the support arm is open and secured over the front fender of the front tire. Sit near the front of the bus and keep an eye on your bike. Unloading Your Bike Tell the driver that you need to unload your bike. Raise the support arm off the tire, move the support arm down and out of the way. Lift the bike off the rack. Return the bike rack to a folded position. Contact Us Have questions about our shuttles, schedules, car service, or other services? Email or call us and we'll be happy to help. (212) 854-3382 [email protected] Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close