Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Parking Annual Campus Events Destination Aggieland From buses to parking, tailgating, sustainable options and more, we have the info you need to get you to and from campus for Aggie events. Find us in the TAMU app Year-Round Events Graduation Reed Arena Commencement Guests attending Commencement in Reed Arena should park in lot 100 around Reed Arena. Lots 61, 100 a–c & e–f and West Campus Garage will be open for Commencement. Lot 102 is reserved for Disabled parking and 100 g is reserved for special guests. Reed Arena Parking Map After Ceremony Traffic High School Graduation Parking Day of parking for high school graduation ceremonies will be available for $5 cash only or valid Texas A&M University parking permit. Parking can be pre-purchased using ParkMobile. Parking charges are per entry. Parking Map After Ceremony Traffic Pre-purchase parking Silver Taps Parking for Silver Taps is free in University Center Garage from 9pm to 2am. Family parking is on the Houston St side of the 1st floor of the garage in the bay area. During the Silver Taps ceremony, all MSC routes will have their MSC stops moved to the ILCB stop on Lamar St. out of respect and to avoid shining lights into the Academic Plaza. In case of inclement weather, please contact Student Assistant Services at 979.845.3113 for additional ceremony information, and check the Traditions Council Facebook and MaroonLink pages for the most up-to-date information regarding the Silver Taps ceremony. Silver Taps Site MSC OPAS Parking for season OPAS events is included in the ticket price for University Center Garage. For special OPAS events, guests may park in University Center Garage at the hourly visitor rate. For directions and more information, visit MSC OPAS MSC OPAS Site Aggie Ring Day Ring Day will be held in the Hall of Champions on the west side of Kyle Field. Event Parking will be available in West Campus Garage: $5 per entry cash only Pre-pay through ParkMobile Accessible parking will be available in limited quantities for $5 per entry cash only in: Gene Stallings Blvd. Garage Shuttle buses will not run during this Ring Day event. View full Ring Day map Spring Events Family Weekend / Maroon & White Game Pre-pay now Friday, April 8 Parking is available in the following areas: $5 cash – West Campus Garage (WCG) Hourly rate – University Center Garage (UCG) Saturday, April 9 Beginning 10:00 a.m., parking for the Maroon & White Game is available in the following areas for $10.00 cash only: Lots 100a–c & e–g, 97, 74 and 61. West Campus Garage (WCG) University Center Garage (UCG) Gene Stallings Blvd. Garage (SBG) Disabled parking is available in University Center Garage (UCG) or Lot 62 on a limited basis. Parking Map Maroon & White Site Aggieland Saturday Aggieland Saturday guests may park free of charge in the following lots: Lot Near Lot 50 Engineering Lot 48 Rudder Auditorium Lot 36 Vet School Permits are not required on Saturdays and spaces may be available in other lots; however, visitors may NOT park in reserved/restricted spaces which include Reserved Numbered, University Business, Service, Timed, Loading Spaces, and Residence Hall lots 30 and 40, which are 24 hour reserved. No end of row or curb parking allowed. Buses should park in Lot 74 on west campus near Rosenthal Meat Science Center. There are also paid visitor parking areas if guests would prefer those facilities. Map Physics & Engineering Festival The Texas A&M Physics & Engineering Festival will be on Saturday, April 2. Parking is FREE in lots 50 and 51. $5 per entry paid parking is available in Northside Garage next to Mitchell Physics Building. Buses needing to drop-off passengers may use the west curb of Ireland Street, only between New Street and Ross Street. Buses may stay no more than 10 minutes in this location while unloading and loading passengers. Buses should then proceed to west bound New Main Drive and park along the curb. Map Festival Site Staff Appreciation Week President’s Meritorious Service Awards Monday, April 23 | MSC Bethancourt Ballroom Hourly parking available in Gene Stallings Blvd. Garage, UCG and WCG Business permits are also valid in each of those facilities Parking Map Bus Routes Staff Development Day Tuesday, April 24 | MSC, Room 2406 Hourly parking available in Gene Stallings Blvd. Garage, UCG and WCG Business permits are also valid in each of those facilities Parking Map Bus Routes SAW Site Maroon & White Walk and Fitness Friday Friday, April 27 | The Rec Hourly parking available in WCG Parking available in Lots 100a-c, 100e-g or 100j with any valid parking permit Parking Map Bus Routes Map SAW Site Big Event Big Event parking is available for free with any valid Texas A&M permit or for $5 cash. Participants may park in the following lots: Lot Near 100a–b, 100e–g Reed Arena 100d Mitchell Tennis Center 100m Cushing Track Stadium 95 & 97 AgriLife West Campus Garage Rec Center John Kimbrough will be closed at Wellborn Rd. Lots can be access via George Bush Dr to Olsen Blvd or Penberthy Blvd or via Stotzer Pkwy to Olsen Blvd or Discovery Dr. Pre-Kickoff Parking Map Post-Kickoff Traffic Map Tool Bring Back Map Big Event Site Muster Muster parking will be open Thursday, April 21 from 5:00pm to midnight. FREE parking will be available in Lot 100 a-f immediately next to Reed Arena, 61, 74, 95, 97, 100j, 100m, and 104. Lot 102 is disabled parking only and 100g is reserved for honored guests. Expect possible delays along the following routes: George Bush Dr to Olsen Blvd Wellborn Rd to Kimbrough Blvd Muster Parking Map Parking Map Muster Site Summer Events New Student Conference New Student Conference parking permits are available beginning May 1. NSC Parking & Info 4-H Roundup The 2022 4-H Roundup will be held on campus from June 6–9. 4H Parking & Info Pre-purchase Parking Event Website July 4th I Love America Due to COVID protocals, The George Bush Presidential Library has been closed. To check on the status of this event, please visit their website. Parking details will be posted on this page should the event proceed. Fall Events Bonfire Remembrance Bonfire Remembrance attendees may park in any non-reserved or marked spaces within lots 47, 50, 51 and 54 from 11:00 p.m., November 17th until 4:00 a.m. November 18th. Vehicles remaining in these lots after 4:00 a.m. must have a valid A&M permit for the specific lot they are parked. Bonfire Memorial Midnight Yell Midnight Yell attendees may park in most surface lots. Lots 30, 40 and 122 are 24 hour reserved and unavailable for this event. The closest available lots to Kyle Field are 48, 61, 62, 100a-c, 102 and 104. No overnight parking is permitted. No vehicles will be permitted into Gene Stallings Blvd. Garage, University Center Garage or West Campus Garage after 10pm the night before home football games. There is no bus service for Midnight Yell. Consider alternative options, such as grabbing a bike through or bike share program. Parking map Yell Leaders Website National Night Out The annual National Night Out event is scheduled for Tuesday, Oct. 5 from 6pm to 8pm at Hullabaloo (on campus) and Century Square (off campus). Parking for the Hullabaloo event is available in the following locations: Permit Parking in Lot 61 Hourly parking in Northside Garage and Gene Stallings Blvd. Garage Parking Map Sports & Events Annual Campus Events Sporting Events Fun Runs RV Parking Move-In/Out New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) — Customer Assistance 979.845.9700 — Administration Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03