Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Mobility options traveling Out of Town Airport Shuttles bus Aggie Spirit Transportation Services offers free transit service to Easterwood Airport via Route 07 (Airport). Service times vary depending on the day of the week and the time of the year. Aggie Spirit bus / van Ground Shuttle GroundShuttle.com offers shuttle service between Easterwood Airport and George Bush Intercontinental or Hobby Airport in Houston and to Austin Bergstrom airport in Austin. Ground Shuttle bus Shuttle Wizard Shuttlewizard.com offers 24/7 unlimited, nationwide shuttle service throughout the US. Texas A&M students and university personnel can use the coupon code for additional discounts. Shuttle Wizard Out of Town Shuttles bus Coach USA Coach USA offers weekend & holiday service to Houston, Dallas, Grand Prairie & more. Weekend service departs College Station on Friday and returns Sunday. Coach USA bus RedCoach RedCoach offers affordable luxury line service to Dallas and Houston. Amenities include free Wi-Fi, 110v power outlets, no baggage fees, spacious legroom and bed-like seats that recline up to 140 degrees. Student discounts available. RedCoach Car Share & Rideshare car share Zipcar Zipcar lets you drive a variety of cars on demand, by the hour or the day, around campuses, cities and airports worldwide. Zipcar rideshare Rideshare Solutions The rideshare program hosted by Transportation Services allows users to give a ride or get a ride to help share the cost of commuting. Users can find a carpool or bus that matches their commute and search for other nearby commuters. Rideshare Solutions rideshare Hitch Hitch offers convenient rides to Texas cities, using background checked drivers and approved vehicles. Users can book a single seat or the entire vehicle. Hitch Mobility Options From car share, rideshare and bike share to shuttles and buses, we have a service to take you where you need to be, whether that's on campus, around town, or out of town. Select where you're headed below and find the mobility options to meet your needs! I need to travel... to and around campus around town out of town Looking to bring public mobility programs or devices to campus? Visit our public mobility page. Transportation Services Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03