Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Fleet Fleet Long-Term Leasing From University Rule 25.99.99.M0.04, all acquisitions of vehicles must be processed through Transportation Services in order to meet state reporting requirements. Texas A&M University vehicles will not be purchased by, nor titled to, individual departments unless Transportation Services determines that a special need exists. Special needs are: the vehicle is a heavy off-the-road model, or the vehicle must be modified or equipped to the extent that use for any other purpose would be impractical. To determine if a special need exists, departments should send a written request, showing justification for the special need, to Transportation Services. Following review, Transportation Services will forward the request to the Department of Procurement Services for submittal to the Associate Vice President for Finance for approval. It is the responsibility of Transportation Center to provide vehicles for departments for long term rental. Departments interested in long-term rental of vehicles should call (979) 845-5846. All Texas A&M University vehicles will be processed through the Transportation Center and procured by Purchasing and Stores Department. To view the current fleet rates visit our Fleet Rates page. Long-term Rental Procurement If a vehicle is not available, Transportation Center will order a vehicle. Transportation Center will utilize the Texas Building and Procurement Commissions State Contract published in the fall of each year. Departments should plan and anticipate their vehicle needs one year in advance. In the event a specific need cannot be met utilizing the state contract, a bid process will be initiated by Purchasing and Stores. Vehicle Replacement The Transportation Center encourages departmental custodians to consider replacing their vehicles within an estimated useful life of 6 to 11 years depending on make and model. However, this will remain the decision of the custodian unless the Service Center decides that the vehicle is unsafe or a chronic maintenance problem. It is recognized that many vehicles get very low mileage and are cared for very well extending useful life for many years. Custodians are encouraged to utilize our My Fleet dashboards to monitor the fuel and maintenance costs for their vehicles to make better decisions on the cost benefit of retaining vehicles beyond a reasonable useful life. Shop management will notify a department if they see a vehicle that is becoming a problem and should be considered for replacement. Long-term Rental Request Departments needing to rent vehicles on a long-term basis from the Transportation Center must complete a Request for Services Form. Special Vehicle Equipment Requirements Departments requiring special equipment to be added to vehicles must coordinate such requirements with Transportation Center. Requests for additional equipment should be made in writing, preferably at the time the request for the vehicle is made. The installation of after-market equipment is coordinated with the fleet manager and the auto shop supervisor. The Transportation Center is responsible for purchasing and installing all add-on equipment. If the add-on equipment increases the asset value of the vehicle, the life of the lease will be extended to cover the cost of the equipment. If the add-on equipment does not change the asset value of the vehicle, the cost of the equipment and installation will be billed to the department. Vehicles should not be altered or changed in any way without the written permission of the Fleet Manager. Equipment added to a vehicle becomes part of the vehicle and is sold with the vehicle. Long-term Rental Termination If a department determines a vehicle is no longer needed, the Transportation Center should be contacted to make arrangements to turn in the vehicle. The departments should clean out the vehicle and return the keys and state fuel cards to the Transportation Center. The vehicle will undergo a final inspection once it is turned in. Any maintenance services and mechanical repairs will be completed to return the vehicle or equipment to rentable condition. The total cost of the services or repairs will be billed to the department/agency terminating the rental. General Care of Fleet Vehicles Departments are responsible for the care of vehicles while in their possession. The Transportation Center asks that departments maintain their vehicles so that the University is able to get the highest return for the vehicle at the time of sale. Vehicles should be washed and vacuumed routinely. The Transportation Center offers car wash and detailing services Tuesday through Thursday. Upon termination of the rental agreement, all maintenance services, all mechanical repair and all damage repair, necessary to return the vehicle or equipment to acceptable standards will be accomplished by the Transportation Center. The total cost of the services or repairs will be billed to the department/agency terminating the rental. General Use Guidelines The following is a guide for the use of University vehicles. The intent is to provide a basic understanding of the Transportation Services standard operating procedures and the appropriate Rules and Regulations. The use of Texas A&M University vehicles is to be confined strictly to activities that support teaching, research and service missions of the University. The guidelines presented are not all-inclusive. In some cases, departments develop more explicit policies that should be adhered to. Personal Use/Misuse of Texas A&M University Vehicles System Policy 33.04 – Use of System Property No TAMUS employee shall use any vehicle owned by TAMUS for any purpose other than official business of TAMUS. Employees may not use such vehicles in connection with any political campaign or for any personal or recreational activity including transportation to and from work on a daily basis; however, a vehicle may be driven to an employee’s home and retained overnight on specific occasions when doing so allows the employee to effect significant time or cost savings or meet a specific out-of-town appointment to conduct System business. Driver license Requirements Departments are responsible for ensuring the drivers of their assigned vehicles are employees. Drivers must be at least 18 years old, possess a valid driver’s license and be approved to drive the departmental vehicle. Operating Conduct When operating a TAMUS vehicle: Obey all traffic laws. Drive carefully, safely and courteously. Ensure all passengers are properly seated and seat belts are fastened at all times. The number of occupants in the vehicle must not exceed the number of seat belts. Do not use the vehicle for personal transportation or other non-official business. Do not drive under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs. Do not drive under the influence of legal drugs if those drugs could diminish driving abilities or judgment. Do not transport or possess alcohol, illegal drugs, unauthorized firearms or other types of weapons. Do not exceed the vehicles manufacture’s recommended capacity. Do not smoke in the vehicle. Do not exceed posted speed limits or use radar detectors. Do not drive while using a cellular telephone. Do not allow passenger behavior that may distract the driver. Do not drive more than eight consecutive hours in any twenty-four hour period. Do not carry personal pets or livestock. When a vehicle or any motorized piece of equipment is not in use, if possible, it should be powered off to prevent the creation of unnecessary pollution due to idling. Safety Recommendations while traveling Be well rested before starting a trip. Always notify a designated contact person upon departure and arrival. Avoid driving in hazardous conditions such as fog, heavy rain, snow or ice. Be prepared to stop the trip when fatigue or travel conditions warrant. Plan routes in advance. Divide the trip into segments, stopping at least every two hours to rest or rotate drivers if possible. Carry a cellular phone. Avoid driving between midnight and 6am. When possible, a passenger or second driver should ride in the front passenger seat and remain awake at all time to help the driver maintain alertness. Carry a flashlight. A fire extinguisher is located in the truck or near the front seat of all departmental vehicles. Avoid taking medication prior to driving, especially if the label warns against operation a vehicle while taking the medication. State of Texas Vehicle Use Report Government Code, Section 2203.01 requires that each operator of a state-owned motor vehicle log their use of the vehicle on a per trip basis in the State of Texas Vehicle Use Report. All requested information must be complete. Departments are responsible for maintaining the original reports within their department and in accordance with the State’s retention policy. Reports are to be filed within the department by the 5th calendar day of each month. Accident Reporting If you are involved in an accident in a University vehicle: Stop immediately and notify the proper law enforcement agency so that an official report can document the accident. Take necessary steps to prevent another accident. Call emergency medical services (911) if necessary. Render aid to the injured until help arrives. DO NOT make any statement, oral or written, as to WHO was at fault. Any admission of fault may impair the insurer’s ability to defend a case of questionable legal liability. Appropriate legal authority will decide fault or liability. Provide all required information to the law enforcement officer. While at the scene of the accident, secure information needed to complete the Motor Vehicle Accident Report. A packet with the Motor Vehicle Accident Report is located in the map/glove compartment in the vehicle. The police officer will assist in providing the necessary information. Do not leave blank spaces. Record the names and addresses of all witnesses. Report the accident to your supervisor and to Fleet Services as soon as possible. Complete the report and submit directly to System Risk Management within 24 hours. A copy must also be sent to Transportation Services Fleet (Fax (979) 845-3026). If a vehicle is inoperable and the accident occurred in the Bryan/College Station area, call Fleet Services at (979) 845-7121 and a wrecker will be dispatched to the accident location. If outside of the Bryan/College Station area, have the vehicle towed to the nearest dealer, arrange for another rental vehicle from a local vendor and proceed with your business. Bodily Injury Resulting from Motor Vehicle Accidents Regardless of whether or not the driver is liable for the accident, injury to employees may be covered under the TAMUS Worker’s Compensation Insurance Program. Claims for Worker’s Compensation should be initiated by filing a First Report of Injury through the vehicle coordinator immediately after the injury. In the event of critical injury or death, the department should notify the Office of Risk Management and Safety at (979) 458-6247. A written report must follow immediately. Vehicle Security The security of University vehicle and contents is the responsibility of the driver. When vehicles are left unattended for any reason, the keys should be removed from the ignition, the hand brake set and the vehicle locked. Vehicles that become disabled on the road should be secured with all possible precautions taken to prevent theft or vandalism. In the event a vehicle cannot be secured in its present location, the driver should contact the Transpiration Center to tow the vehicle to a facility where it can be secured. Vehicles should not be left along highways or in any area where it is more likely for theft or vandalism to occur. Drivers should be aware that employee’s safety is the first and foremost concern. Driver’s safety should never be sacrifice in order to ensure the vehicle security. Vehicle break-ins and vandalism on campus should be reported to University Police at (979) 845-2345. Maintenance Maintenance purchased for Texas A&M University vehicles must be purchased from the Transportation Center facility located on Agronomy Road. If the Transportation Center is not able to perform the work in a timely manner, then the Transportation Center will be responsible for subletting the work. Plan requires that all state vehicles be on a Preventive Maintenance Program. The Transportation Center is responsible for maintaining the program and scheduling for all Texas A&M University vehicles for routine preventive maintenance (PM). The scheduling supervisor will work with vehicle custodians to schedule Texas A&M University vehicles for PM’s throughout the year. Every effort will be made to provide a convenient date and flexible drop-off time. Appointments are available on a first-come, first-served basis. If it becomes necessary to re-schedule an appointment, departments should call (979) 845-7121. Cancellations should be made 48-hours in advance of the scheduled appointment. Mechanic workdays are planned according to the daily appointment schedules. Therefore, a charge may be assessed for missed appointments. Under no circumstances should departments ignore PM checkups. Ignoring PM check-ups is a safety issue that could result in a serious accident or loss of property. Departments are responsible for adhering to all vehicle state inspections. Departments will be notified when state inspections are due. Inspections are performed at the Transportation Center. Customers are welcome to bring vehicles in at any time during the inspection month. Inspections may be performed while you wait. Fuel Fuel purchased for Texas A&M University vehicles within the Bryan/College Station area is to be purchased from the Transportation Center located on Agronomy Road. Fueling outside of the Bryan/College Station area should be purchase with a state fuel card. The state fuel card is a Comdata card and can be used at any gas station that accepts MasterCard. The card is issued to a specific vehicle and cannot be used to fuel any other vehicle. For convenience, each card is embossed with the vehicle number. If the vehicle is not issued a Comdata card, a loaner card can be check out at the Transportation Center. Fleet & Leasing My Fleet Leasing Rates Fueling Vehicle Maintenance Vehicle Branding Guidelines Van Safety My Fleet How-To Guide Fleet FAQs Fleet Facts & Figures System Regulation Document Comprehensive Compliance Plan Request for Services Motor Vehicle Accident Report Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.845.5846 Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03