Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute & Travel Options Walk Walk Walk Walking is the most basic form of transportation, and it's one of Columbia’s preferred commute modes. Walking is a terrific way to travel for both your health and for the environment. Pedestrian activity and street life adds to the vibrancy, health, and safety of our communities. Walk on, Columbia. Fast Facts recycle icon Did You Know? Walking is virtually carbon-free. Walking is the transportation mode that uses the least amount of street space. About 30 percent of Columbians have an entirely walking commute. That's about 14,000 people arriving by foot each day. fast-forward icon Faster than You Think! 10 blocks (0.5 mile) takes about 10 minutes to walk. Most people walk about 3 miles per hour or 1 block per minute. Walking between avenues takes about 3 minutes. calendar-check icon Tips to Walk More Designate one day a week to a walking commute. Take transit in one direction and walk back. Or get off the train or bus one stop sooner and walk the rest. Explore by foot—take lunchtime walks to local attractions and parks. Learn about ways to increase your physical activity from the Office of Work/Life Walking at Night Columbia provides escort services for traveling at night. Visit Public Safety’s Safety Escorts services webpage for more information. Additional Resources Google Maps Use the walk mode in Google Maps to determine a walking route, distance, and timing. Take the Stairs Join the Take the Stairs challenge and choose the stairs instead of the elevator as a quick way to add more physical activity into the day and save electricity. Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close