Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home On-Demand Evening Shuttle Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) On-Demand Evening Shuttle Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Expand all Collapse all How do I request a ride? Rides are booked through the Via rider app. Download the app on your smartphone and create an account. You will be asked to enter credit card information, but you can skip this stage if you only plan to use the app to book free Columbia Evening Shuttle rides. Apply your unique promo code provided by the University to the Via app using these directions. Once you're ready, enter your origin and destination by dragging the pin or entering a location using the search bar to begin requesting your ride. Be sure that your passenger count is set to 1 (each rider must make their own booking) and that your origin and destination are within the Columbia zone. Select the free 'Columbia Shuttle' option from the list. Who is eligible? Students, faculty, and staff with an active UNI and Columbia ID on the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses are eligible for a promo code. What safety measures has Via implemented due to COVID-19? Via has implemented a multi-faceted safety approach including: Enhanced daily cleaning protocols with EPA approved disinfectants Via HQ assisting Driver Partners in equipping vehicles with materials for regular disinfection Social distance and/or a partition will divide those in the vehicle, with a 3-passenger maximum and at least one seat left empty between passengers In NYC, riders and drivers must wear face coverings when in vehicle, even if socially distant Drivers encouraged to enhance ventilation in the vehicle through the opening of windows Drivers must self-monitor for temperature and symptoms before each shift Riders and Drivers must each self-certify via the App that they are symptom-free and have not had a likely exposure Via is further supporting the safety of Riders and Drivers by supplying Driver Partners with personal protective equipment (PPE) and cleaning supplies free of charge and providing assistance with partitions and supplemental professional cleanings. Why am I being asked to enter my credit card information when I create a Via account? You do not have to enter your credit card information if you only plan on using the Via app to book free Columbia Evening Shuttle rides. When prompted to enter credit card information, you can click the “skip” button on the top right corner of the screen. This will allow you to book free rides without entering credit card information. If you do enter credit card information, you will also be able to take paid Via rides throughout NYC for personal travel in addition to using the free Evening Shuttle service within Columbia's coverage area. How long does it take to get a ride? Wait times can vary depending on several conditions. We recommend always checking the Via app to see the most accurate proposed wait times. Due to the current NYC mandate banning shared rides in line with physical distancing efforts, all rides in the service will be limited to one rider per vehicle. This may cause wait times to increase. What are the requirements to get a ride? The Evening Shuttle will operate seven days a week from 4:00 p.m. every evening (6:00 p.m. in the summer) until 4:00 a.m. the following morning. You must enter your unique promo code in the app to be able to book a free Columbia Shuttle ride. Service is provided only in predetermined zones around the Columbia campus. Qualifying free rides will not be provided outside of these boundaries or between campuses. View the Coverage Area Map to find out where you can ride for free using the Evening Shuttle service. Riders can only book a ride for themselves. If you are traveling in a group, each rider needs to request a ride separately. Riders must show their Columbia ID card to the driver before boarding the shuttle. Why do I only see paid Via rides when I request, and no free Columbia Evening Shuttle ride? If your ride request does not meet the requirements for a Columbia Evening Shuttle ride, you will not see the Evening Shuttle proposal in your app. Please view the requirements to get a ride and make sure your request meets the requirements. If the error persists, use the in-app chat feature to let Via know there is an issue. What if I require a wheelchair accessible vehicle and only a paid Via ride is currently available? Temporarily, there may not be a wheelchair accessible vehicle available in the Columbia fleet. In this case, Via will provide a wheelchair accessible option from its commercial vehicle fleet. If you require a wheelchair accessible vehicle and the free Columbia Evening Shuttle does not show up as an option, choose the paid option and Via will reimburse you for your ride. After your ride is complete, just send an email to [email protected] and let us know. Where do I go for my pick-up? Pick-ups or drop-offs will always be nearby (in front of the requested address, the nearest corner, or at a designated on-campus location). However, note that due to road access and safety concerns, some pick-ups may be a short distance away. Please check the Via rider app for your exact pick-up location and walking instructions to this location. If you have trouble locating your vehicle you can call your driver by clicking the phone icon within the app. What happens if I can't make my ride? If you know you can't make your ride, please let us know so that we can give another passenger a ride in your place. You can easily cancel your ride through the Via app by clicking on the “cancel ride” button at the bottom of the app. How will I know when my car arrives? Evening Shuttle does not call you when your car arrives. The Via app will send you a notification when your vehicle is two minutes away, and a text when the vehicle is at the pick-up location. Please be outside or within visual range of the pick-up location at the estimated time of your pickup. Evening Shuttle drivers will be provided Columbia Evening Shuttle logo signage to display, and you should confirm the vehicle type and plate number in the Via app and ask the driver partner to confirm your name before entering the vehicle. If you don't see your car and the app is indicating your vehicle is at the pick-up, you can call the driver partner directly to coordinate. Due to high demand, as well as Evening Shuttle being shared with other students, we cannot keep other passengers waiting - your driver will only wait for two minutes before reporting you as a no-show. What should I do if I cannot find my driver? You can call your driver directly through the Via app to coordinate your pick-up. My phone died! Is my ride cancelled? Nope! you just won't be able to receive notifications when your ride arrives, so you'll have to be ready and waiting near your pick-up. What if the Via app is down and I can’t book a ride? In the case of an app outage or technical difficulties, shuttles will assume a set route within the service area, as displayed by this map. Passengers can stand at any location along the route, wave down the Via shuttle, and show their Columbia ID to get a ride to the point on the route closest to their destination. I am not seeing a Columbia Evening Shuttle proposal in the Via app. Why? Confirm that your request meets the geographic requirements. Rides must start and end within the Columbia Coverage Area. Make sure to enter your unique promo code in the app before booking a ride. If you do not enter the code, you will not receive a free Evening Shuttle proposal (only paid Via rides will appear in your app) Confirm that Evening Shuttle is in service; The Evening Shuttle will operate seven days a week from 4:00 p.m. every evening (6:00 p.m. in the summer) until 4:00 a.m. the following morning. Confirm that you are booking for only 1 rider. Riders can only book a ride for themselves. If you are traveling in a group, each rider needs to request a ride separately. Note: if you do request a ride for more than one rider in the Via app, you will not be offered a free Columbia Evening Shuttle ride. My ride doesn't meet the requirements. What can I do? Depending on the time you need transportation, one of Columbia's shuttle buses may be running. Check the schedules on our website or on the Passio Go! app to find out. I think I left something in the car. Is there a lost and found? Yes! If you just lost the item, be sure to make a note of your car plate number and/or driver's name. Contact Via Support using the Help Center in the Via app. If the driver found your item, Via Support will help coordinate it's return. What happens if I vomit in, or otherwise damage, an Evening Shuttle car? Via will charge $100 to cover the cost of cleaning/repairing the vehicle. The Via app has given me the message "This promo code has either expired or already in use by your account." If you've already applied your promo code once during this term, you will not need to enter it again until next term. Simply book your Via Evening Shuttle ride without entering your promo code again. Note that the promo code does not need to be applied each time you use the Via app to take a ride. If you return to the Columbia promo code generator and enter your UNI/password, it will give you the same promo code you've received earlier in the term. On-Demand Evening Shuttle NEED HELP OR HAVE QUESTIONS? The chat feature within the Via app is the most expedient channel for live support. Riders will be put in touch with a live agent almost immediately; their location will be easily trackable, and the support experience will be quicker and more efficient than calling in. If you prefer to talk to a live agent over the phone, you can call Via's Support line at 646-692-0576. Please read through the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) before calling. For questions about eligibility or receiving a promo code during business hours, contact Columbia Transportation at 212-854-3382. After hours, use the Public Safety non-emergency line at 212-854-SAFE (7233). Return to On-Demand Evening Shuttle homepage Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close