Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Event Parking Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Event Parking Event Parking Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Advertising Employment Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Transit Driver Apply for this position | See all listings Position Title Transit Driver Work Days/Times Shifts available are 6:30 am - 1:00am, Monday - Friday and 9:00 am - 6:00 pm Saturday and Sunday. Major/Essential Duties of Job Drive TAMU Transit routes and charters. Paid training available while you earn your Class B license with passenger endorsement. Once obtained, must be able to maintain a State of Texas Class B license with passenger endorsement. Starting Salary will be $13.00 an hour. $15.00 an hour will be paid on Football game events only. May be eligible for priority registration as a student employee (Texas A&M students only). Transportation Services welcomes work study participants. Learning Outcomes: -Critical Thinking/Problem Solving - Exercise sound reasoning to analyze issues, make decisions, and overcome problems. The individual is able to obtain, interpret, and use knowledge, facts, and data in this process, and may demonstrate originality and inventiveness. -Teamwork/Collaboration - Build collaborative relationships with colleagues and customers representing diverse cultures, races, ages, genders, religions, lifestyles, and viewpoints. The individual is able to work within a team structure, and can negotiate and manage conflict. -Time Management - Prioritize responsibilities in relation to deadlines/time demands. Contribute to a productive/positive department environment. -Customer Service - Provide accurate information to customers. Articulate policies and procedures, demonstrate respect and courtesy to customers which includes faculty, staff, students and visitors. Preference will be given to students participating in the First-Gen High Impact Experience program offered through the Routh First-Generation Center. (For more information regarding this program, please visit: https://studentsuccess.tamu.edu/Routh-First-Generation-Center/Student-Programs/First-Gen-High-Impact-Experience) Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action/Veterans/Disability Employer committed to diversity. Learning Outcomes Learning outcomes Qualifications Must have a good driving record. Must be able to obtain State of Texas Class "B" vehicle operator's license(CDL with passenger endorsement).Must have a valid Texas driver license. The law states if you have a Visa type of F1, J1, F2 or J2 you are not eligible to obtain a Class “B” vehicle operator’s license (CDL with passenger endorsement). If you hold this type of Visa you will not be eligible for the position. Must be enrolled as a student for a minimum of 9 hours per semester excluding (Summer Session) at TAMU, Blinn, Sam Houston etc. Must work an average of 12 hours per week during the Fall and Spring Semesters. Must work a minimum of 7 special event credits during the fall and 1 during the spring in addition to the minimum of 12 hours worked per week. Must work a minimum of 9 hours during the time of final examinations during the Fall and Spring Semesters. The dates for the 9 hours start with the first day of finals and end with the last day of finals. Preferred Qualifications Previous customer service. Ability to work three consecutive semesters (not to include summer) prior to graduation date. Other Instructions This is a DOT covered position and the state requires pre-employment drug testing and random drug and alcohol testing. Will be required to provide class schedule. Will be required to register with the CDL Clearinghouse and will have a query ran in the CDL Clearinghouse annually. Salary $13.00/hr (eligible for student employee pay plan) For questions contact Rowena Apodaca Email rapodaca@tamu.edu or Call (979) 458-0525 An Aggie Bus Driver story | Graduation Testimonials See all listings Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) — Customer Assistance 979.845.9700 — Administration Contact Us FAQs Connect with us AggieParking AggieSpiritBus GetToAggieGame Instagram Facebook Facebook HR YouTube Departments Parking Transit Sustainability Fleet Advertising Texas A&M University | VP for Finance & Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03