Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Parking I'm Looking for Parking Summer Parking Eligibility Summer Parking Eligibility During June, July and August, there is a temporary increase in available parking and broader eligibility criteria. All active Columbia University staff may apply; the restriction to administrative officers of grade 14 and higher is lifted during the summer, but the other policy criteria, including geographic eligibility qualifications, still apply. Current students are eligible for 24-hour parking at the Arbor garage in Riverdale. Summer parking is not available for affiliates of Barnard College (except Barnard College faculty residing in Columbia University housing), Teachers College, and other affiliated institutions. Complete the form below to determine if you are eligible. Webform What is your affiliation? - Select -I am a Columbia University affiliate interested in summer 24/7 parkingI am a Columbia University affiliate interested in summer commuter parkingI am living in Columbia University housing over the summerNone of the above Do you live north of West 96th Street and south of West 145th Street in Manhattan? - None -YesNo You are eligible to apply for parking. Columbia University affiliates who live north of West 96th Street and south of West 145th Street, from Central Park West (or its equivalent) to Riverside Drive are eligible to apply for summer 24/7 parking. Follow this link to apply. You are not eligible for parking. People who park 24/7 in University-affiliated garages must live north of West 96th Street and south of West 145th Street. See this link for a list of commercial garages in the Morningside Heights and Manhattanville areas. Do you reside outside Manhattan? - None -YesNo You are eligible to apply for parking. All Columbia students registered for summer classes and active Columbia University staff with a home address outside of Manhattan may apply for summer commuter parking. Follow this link to apply. You are not eligible for parking. Commuter parkers must reside outside Manhattan. See this link for a list of commercial garages in the Morningside Heights and Manhattanville areas. You are not eligible for parking. Parking is only available to Columbia University affiliates or those living in Columbia University housing over the summer. See this link for a list of commercial garages in the Morningside Heights and Manhattanville areas. You are eligible to apply for parking. Those living in Columbia University housing over the summer may apply for parking. Follow this link to apply. What type of parking are you looking for? 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking (includes all semester parking for Adjunct faculty) Summer Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close