Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home News & Announcements News & Announcements May 17, 2022 Summer Schedule for Intercampus Shuttle Begins May 23 The Intercampus Shuttle summer schedule will begin on Monday, May 23. The last day of the Academic Year schedule will be Saturday, May 21. April 12, 2022 Expanded Intercampus Shuttle Schedule Beginning April 18 We’re writing to inform you of some additions to the Intercampus Shuttle service, including new stops and expanded evening hours. Beginning Monday, April 18, the following changes will take effect. March 15, 2022 Evening Shuttle (Via) Coverage Area Expanded to 137th Street The Evening Shuttle (powered by Via) coverage area has been expanded north to 137th Street (west of Broadway). Please view the full coverage area map for details. January 28, 2022 Winter Storm Watch in Effect January 28 - 29 The National Weather Service (NWS) has issued a Winter Storm Watch for New York City and its surrounding areas, in effect beginning Friday, January 28 through Saturday evening (January 29). January 05, 2022 Evening Shuttle (Via) Coverage Area Expanded to Adam Clayton Powell Blvd. As part of our continual effort to optimize service, we’ve expanded the coverage area for the Evening Shuttle (powered by Via). January 05, 2022 Expanded Shuttle Service on the Manhattanville Loop Begins January 10 Starting January 10, 2022, the Manhattanville Loop shuttle, which runs between the Manhattanville and Morningside Heights campuses, will operate from 7:20 a.m. until 10:30 p.m. on weekdays throughout the academic year, including summer. December 20, 2021 No Shuttle Service Christmas Day, New Year’s Day As the end of the year draws near, we’re writing to make sure you are aware of adjustments to the Intercampus and Lamont shuttles during winter break. November 29, 2021 Evening Shuttle (Via) Start Time Moves to 4 P.M. Beginning Dec. 1 Beginning Wednesday, December 1, Evening Shuttle service will begin at 4:00 P.M. for the winter season. Corner-to-corner service will run from 4:00 P.M. to 8:00 P.M. and door-to-door service will run from 8:00 P.M. to 3:00 A.M. November 29, 2021 Columbia Expands Park and Ride to Reduce Emissions and Congestion in Manhattan Columbia University added 15 parking spaces to the park and ride program at its Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory campus, bringing the total to 36 spaces. The program allows Columbia employees living in the Rockland County area to give up their car commute to Columbia’s Morningside and Manhattanville campuses by parking at Lamont and catching the free Columbia Transportation shuttle. November 23, 2021 Studebaker North Stop Location Change Beginning December 1 Beginning Wednesday, December 1, the Studebaker North stop on the Intercampus and Lamont shuttles (currently located at 3258 Broadway) will be moved to the North side of 131st Street to 3270 Broadway, in front of the No Parking sign seen in this image. September 07, 2021 Your New Commute Choices Will Have an Impact The information below is provided to support your decision-making and to encourage Columbia affiliates to make environmentally responsible decisions in this time of change. August 27, 2021 Evening Shuttle (Via) Schedule Updates for the Academic Year As the summer comes to a close and a new Academic Year begins, we’re announcing some changes to the Evening Shuttle service that will take effect Monday, August 30. August 24, 2021 Academic Year Schedules for Commuter, Intercampus, Lamont, and Manhattanville Loop Shuttles Fall 2021 schedules are now available for the Intercampus, Commuter, Lamont, and Manhattanville Loop shuttles. August 18, 2021 Evening Shuttle (Via) Promo Codes to Expire August 23 Promo codes used over the Spring and Summer terms to activate free Columbia University Evening Shuttle rides in the Via app are about to expire. If you plan to use the service during Fall term, please follow the instructions below. August 18, 2021 Fall Changes to Commuter Shuttle: Effective Sept. 1 Additional stops, one discontinued stop, and one stop location change will be implemented on September 1 for the Fall semester. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close