Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Bus Service Select to follow link KU on Wheels Bus Advertising Program Late Night Services Select to follow link SafeRide SafeBus Lost & Found Shuttles About Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Shuttle Services Airport Shuttle Airport shuttle services from KU to Kansas City International Airport are offered for Fall Break, Thanksgiving Break, Winter Break, and Spring Break. Dates for the 2022-23 academic year will be posted by September 1. Departure shuttles are generally scheduled to leave Lawrence at 6 a.m., 9 a.m., 12 p.m., 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. Return shuttles are generally scheduled to leave the airport at 11 a.m., 2 p.m., 5 p.m., 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. Adjustments to these times may be made once the signup form has closed and before final confirmations are sent out. The cost is $35 per student each way, subject to change. Cancellations may be made for a full refund up to 48 hours before your scheduled trip. There will be no refunds for cancellations less than 48 hours in advance. All charges will be billed to the student's account. For students and families who need airport transportation at other times of year, there is a list of private airport shuttle services on the Kansas City International Airport website. Bert Nash Shuttle KU Transportation Services provides reliable transportation to the Bert Nash Mental Health Center for regularly scheduled appointments. Students interested in using this program must provide proper documentation to Student Access Services (SAS) within the Academic Achievement and Access Center (AAAC). Please submit confirmation documentation from Bert Nash of regularly scheduled appointments through one of the following methods: Email: achieve@ku.edu Drop off: Strong Hall, Room 22 Mail: Student Access Services; Strong Hall, Room 22; Jayhawk Blvd.; Lawrence, KS 66045 Fax: 785-864-2017 An advisor in the Student Access Services Center will contact you with instructions on how to access transportation. This service is brought to you by AAAC, Student Senate and Transportation Services. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 facebook twitter Lawrence Transit Bus Routes Mobile App & Text Alerts Bus Trip Planner KU Parking Office Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.