Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home About Us About Us Our Mission Columbia Transportation provides travel options and information so the Columbia community can make safe, efficient, and timely trips to, from, and between Columbia's campuses. Transportation works with Columbia University Public Safety and other campus partners to respond to ongoing growth, striving to meet the transportation needs of the Columbia community. Contact Us Have questions regarding Transportation operations? Contact for questions about shuttles, charters, and black car service. For general inquiries, call 212-854-3382 or email [email protected] Alternately, you can contact us online by submitting our Contact form. Please note: Car Service receipt requests should be emailed to [email protected]. Want more information on commute options and sustainability? Columbia extends its transportation efforts to provide University members with commuter resources and benefits to incentivize a more sustainable commute and also offer an improved quality of life. For questions about resources and alternatives toward a more sustainable commute, email [email protected] Our Team Miguel Pagan Miguel Pagan is the Executive Director of Administrative Services, charged with the leadership of Columbia Mail, Columbia Print and Columbia Transportation. Mike provides strategic and operational oversight to these departments, with a focus on customer service, operational efficiency, and sustainable solutions. Since joining the University in 2004, Mike has led the organization with his significant operational experience and expertise. He spent nearly two decades in healthcare administration, first in a staff position at Mt. Sinai Hospital and rising to Corporate Director of Materials Management at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital. David Ramos David Ramos is responsible for overseeing the daily operation of the shuttles system, including regular monitoring of the shuttles along their routes. David performs routine spot checks to verify and ensure quality service. He also manages rider customer service, responding to individual concerns and questions sent via email or phone. David joined Columbia in 2006 after serving as an Operating Room Tech Coordinator at St. Luke’s Hospital. Daniel Allalemdjian Daniel Allalemdjian is the Director of Transportation Demand Management at Columbia University. His role is to develop and implement transportation and commuter initiatives that shift Columbia University members to choose sustainable travel modes that are more efficient, convenient, and affordable—all with the aim of reducing traffic congestion and environmental impact. Whether it’s making way for bicycle infrastructure, developing improved shuttle routes, coordinating rideshare arrangements, or advising on transit routes, Dan is continually looking to improve transportation services and options at Columbia University. Before joining Columbia University, Dan worked with the Massachusetts Department of Transportation developing and implementing commuter initiatives at worksites across Massachusetts. He worked with a range of organizations that have received awards for their achievements. no photo photo of edit edit Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close