Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to About Us Construction & Traffic Advisories To narrow by date, select a date or begin and end dates. Narrow to selected dates Clear selection South Side Garage, Power Washing Power Washing Texas A&M Quiet Zone Wellborn Road Closure Hullabaloo Residence Hall Repairs South Side Garage, Power Washing 6/3/2022 (Posted 5/26/2022) PARKING ADVISORY AREA AFFECTED: South Side Garage SCOPE OF PROJECT: Contractors will be power washing all levels of South Side Garage June 3 through June 14. Areas to be power washed will be designated using signs and cones. Please avoid these designated cleaning areas. ALTERNATE PARKING: South Side Garage customers are advised to park in the unaffected areas of the garage or according to the Summer/Break parking map. https://transport.tamu.edu/parkingmap/tsmap.htm?map=bsm We appreciate your patience and understanding. Sincerely, Texas A&M University Transportation Services Power Washing 5/25/2022 (Posted 5/25/2022) PARKING ADVISORY AREA AFFECTED: University Center Garag SCOPE OF PROJECT: Contractors will be power washing all levels of University Center Garage May 30 through June 3. Areas to be power washed will be designated using signs and cones. Please avoid these designated cleaning areas. ALTERNATE PARKING: University Center Garage customers are advised to park in the unaffected areas of the garage or according to the Summer/Break parking map. https://transport.tamu.edu/parkingmap/tsmap.htm?map=bsm We appreciate your patience and understanding. Sincerely, Texas A&M University Transportation Services Texas A&M Quiet Zone 5/30/2022 (Posted 5/23/2022) TRAFFIC ADVISORY AREA AFFECTED: Kimbrough Blvd. at Wellborn Road SCOPE OF PROJECT: John Kimbrough Boulevard will be fully closed from Wellborn Road to the northeast driveway of West Campus Garage (WCG) beginning Monday, May 30, at 8:00 a.m. through Monday, June 20, at 5:00 p.m. ALTERNATE ROUTE: Access throughout the project to and from WCG will be available from the south via Dennis Corrington Drive and from the north via John Kimbrough Boulevard, travelling to and from the west only. Detours will be in place to access Kimbrough Boulevard from Wellborn Road via Old Main Drive or Olsen Boulevard. Please plan ahead and allow extra time as delays and additional traffic on Wellborn Road and George Bush Drive are expected. Visit the Quiet Zone website for more information about the project. Sincerely, Texas A&M University Transportation Services Wellborn Road Closure 5/15/2022 (Posted 5/11/2022, Last Updated 5/11/2022) TRAFFIC ADVISORY AREA AFFECTED: Wellborn Road at Holleman Drive SCOPE OF PROJECT: FM 2154 (Wellborn Road) at Holleman Drive will be closed beginning Sunday, May 15th, at approximately 5:00 p.m., and will remain closed for approximately 6 weeks. This road closure is necessary to raise the elevation of Wellborn Road to the elevation of the adjacent railroad tracks to improve the intersection for all traffic to and from Holleman Drive west of Wellborn Road. Due to the current difference in elevations between the railroad tracks and FM 2154, drivers may have experienced dragging the front or rear end of their vehicles when going through this intersection. But more importantly, school buses and emergency response vehicles, such as fire trucks, have had a very difficult time making it safely across the tracks. This project will eliminate that issue and make the drive smoother for everyone. While inconvenient to drivers, detours on local adjacent city and state roadways will be signed to assist drivers with other routes during this time and TxDOT hopes the improvement upon opening will make the temporary inconvenience less worrisome. Access to adjacent businesses (C.C. Creations and CubeSmart Self Storage), the Berkely House and Gateway Apartments, First United Methodist Church, and the Wayne Smith Athletic Complex, which all surround this intersection, will still be provided during the intersection closure. But no other traffic will be allowed past those points and into the construction area. All thru traffic will need to use a detour route. This work is part of a $3 million contract with Larry Young Paving, Inc., which also includes upgrading the pedestrian facilities at the intersection. FM 2154 (Wellborn Road) is expected to re-open to traffic in late June. Holleman Drive east of Wellborn Road will remain closed until late July. Holleman Drive west of Wellborn Road will remain closed until Union Pacific Railroad is able to complete new construction of the rail tracks and upgrade the crossing safety devices. Once that work is complete and TxDOT’s contractor is able to complete the Holleman road and pedestrian elements tying into the rail tracks, Holleman to the west will be reopened as well. The whole project is expected to be complete by late September, depending on the coordinated efforts with the railroad. Closure and reroute map Hullabaloo Residence Hall Repairs 5/16/2022 (Posted 5/11/2022, Last Updated 5/11/2022) PARKING ADVISORY AREA AFFECTED: Lot 30c SCOPE OF PROJECT: Transportation Services has been notified of repairs to Hullabaloo Residence Hall occurring May 16 through July 15. These repairs will require the closure of three rows of Lot 30c (see linked map below). https://transport.tamu.edu/ViewDoc.aspx?FileID=1499&PageID=Construction ALTERNATE PARKING: Permit holders are advised to avoid the construction zone and park in the unaffected areas of lot 30. We appreciate your patience and understanding while these repairs are being made. Sincerely, Texas A&M University Transportation Services MAP Campus Construction Map This map indicates all active areas of construction on campus. Campus construction map More Construction Resources Projects, Construction & Advisories Construction & Traffic Advisories Current Campus Projects Campus Projects Archive Frequently Asked Questions Campus Construction Map About Us Mission & Vision History of Transportation Services Alternative Permit Pricing Options and History Department FAQs Forums Associations Presentations Surveys News Articles Campus Master Plan Employment Advertising Gameday RV Committee Transportation Services Advisory Committee (TSAC) Bicycle Committee Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) — Customer Assistance 979.845.9700 — Administration Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03