Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Sustainable Transportation Slow Moving Vehicles Regulations The following procedures and regulations have been created to establish proper safety procedures; identification and registration; parking; routes; and access for Slow Moving Vehicles operated on or off university property when conducting university business and to provide a safe environment for students, faculty, staff, and university visitors. Required Training Affiliates (TAMUS Employees) Non-Affiliates Required SMV Branding Branding requirements for SMVs Definition Slow Moving Vehicles include golf carts and utility type vehicles such as Mules, Gators and Rangers, which have no less than four wheels, a maximum speed of 25 mph, and are used by departments, contractors and private partners to move people and materials on or off university property when conducting university business. This definition applies to electric or gas-powered SMVs. Vehicles not licensed via the Texas Traffic Code must be governed (via speed control mechanism) to not exceed 25 mph. Personally-owned SMVs are prohibited from operating on University property. Personal mobility devices are not classified as SMVs. Safe Operation Procedures Familiarize yourself with the controls used to start, brake, accelerate, and backup the SMV. Never operate the SMV under the influence of drugs or alcohol. If taking prescribed medication that causes drowsiness or other impairment, tell your supervisor and do not drive the SMV. Secure and properly store all equipment and supplies to prevent objects from falling out or striking people. Never smoke or use cell phones, headphones or other devices that could limit hearing or cause a distraction while operating the SMV. Never overload the SMV, i.e. carrying more passengers than seating provided or overloading the vehicle’s recommended carrying or load capacity (Seat belts must be used when provided). No one is permitted to ride on the running boards, fenders, or any other part of the SMV except the seats. Keep all body parts – feet, legs, and arms - inside the SMV while it is in motion, unless the operator is signaling for a turn. Operator must adhere to all traffic laws and signs, including posted speed limits. All SMV should travel in the right hand lane, unless turning left. SMVs should not operate in the bike lane or drive around or otherwise bypass gates. When moving through congested areas, especially at class change, speed should be no faster than pedestrians walking in the same area. Exercise extra caution at blind corners and areas with heavy pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Reduce speed to compensate for inclines, corners, bumps/rough terrain, pedestrians, and especially on wet/icy conditions. Pedestrians have the right-of-way on campus sidewalks. Slow Moving Vehicles must yield to pedestrians on sidewalks. When operated on sidewalks and grass areas the MAXIMUM speed limit for a SMV is 10 mph (5mph when pedestrians are present). The SMV must yield to pedestrian on sidewalks and follow pedestrian no closer than 10’. SMV operators must be diligent and pay particular attention to the needs of disabled persons, as limitations in vision, hearing or mobility may impair their ability to see, hear, or move out of the way of SMV. SMV operators must not block paths, limit pedestrian access on walkways, nor park at entrances to buildings. Carts are required to abide by orders/directions from University Police, Environmental Health and Safety, Transportation Services and building proctors/facility coordinators. Remove key(s) from SMV when unattended. Engage the brake any time SMV is not occupied. Operator must report any accidents to their immediate supervisor. Motor vehicle accidents must be reported to University Police. If the SMV is not operating properly, park in a safe location, remove the key and any valuables, and notify your supervisor immediately. Transportation Services (979-845-0057) can assist with a non-working SMV. Parking, Routes and Access When on campus use university roadways as the primary route. SMV may be operated on sidewalks and plazas, but the operator must use extreme caution. The speed limit for SMV in these locations is 10 mph. SMV may not drive on narrow sidewalks (6’ or less). The university may prohibit or further restrict use of SMV in designated areas and/or times. SMVs are prohibited in No Wheel Zones areas (notated by signage). SMV must follow the direction of traffic. Avoid driving on lawns unless performing landscape or other maintenance in that area. Landscape should not be used for “short cuts”. If wet, do not drive on lawns. SMV may not be driven on Wellborn Rd./FM 2154, University Dr./Raymond Stotzer Pkwy, George Bush Dr. or Texas Ave. except while crossing at signalized intersections. When in crosswalks, pedestrians have the right of way and SMV drivers need to take extra care to ensure they are seen by others before proceeding. SMV use in the Wellborn Road passageways is authorized with extra caution as described above. SMV must not be parked where they block vehicular, pedestrian or bicycle traffic, flower beds, building entrances and exits, fire department connections, wheelchair ramps or curb cuts, or any other location that may present a hazard. ADA and Fire/Life Safety Code compliance must be followed. SMV must be stored in a designated parking space or other location approved by Transportation Services with input from appropriate building proctor(s). Additional parking restrictions may apply. Follow appropriate requirements for gas-powered SMV storage. Electric vehicles must be recharged at locations designated for such use. Use of extension cords from inside buildings is prohibited. Battery Charging Equipment Requirements Improperly parked SMV may be ticketed, towed or otherwise disabled by Transportation Services. SMVs must have a location where they can be safely stored when not in use. Serial Number Locations Club Car Cushman E-Z-Go Gator Polaris Ranger Authorized Travel Paths Map SMV Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Safe Operation Procedures Parking, Routes and Access Request Purchase of SMV Serial Number Locations SMV University Rule (SAP) Parking Menu Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Rideshare Bike Registration Bike Regulations State Bicycle Laws Theft & Safety Borrow a Bike Summer Bike Storage Bike Auctions Bike Maintenance Bicycle FAQs Bicycle Master Plan Bike Lanes, Racks & Maintenance Stations City Bike Lanes Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 bikes@tamu.edu Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03