Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Bus Service Select to follow link KU on Wheels Bus Advertising Program Late Night Services Select to follow link SafeRide SafeBus Lost & Found Shuttles About Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Bus Advertising Program Buses owned or operated by the University of Kansas have overhead space for bus advertising, referred to as the “bus rails.” Advertisements in this space may be requested for registered student groups and any university department or affiliate (e.g., Unions, Athletics, etc) for their department or sponsored events. Bus ads are posted once per month at the beginning of each month and must be approved, scheduled, and printed no later than the 20th of the preceding month. Transportation Services reserves the right to approve the content of all ads before printing. As of FY22, there is no charge to have ads posted in KU buses, but departments/student groups are responsible for all printing and lamination costs. Subject to change at any time. How it Works Request Procedures Click to expand Any student group or department who wishes to print/post ads on buses must send their information to kuonwheels@ku.edu. The message should include: Department name Contact name/email Proposed content of the ad (text or visual draft) Start and end dates Ad Specifications Click to expand Bus ads must be designed to meet the following specifications: Design Size 10.75" x 16.75" Margin/Bled 0.25" Orientation Landscape File Type High-Resolution PDF Lamination 5mil or 7mil Finished size 11" x 17" Quantity 42 Expiration Date: The design must include your ad's expiration date (MM/DD/YYYY) in the bottom-right corner, in a font that is at least 0.25” tall and legible to read from 4 ft away. Printing Services Click to expand We recommend using Jayhawk Ink in the Kansas Union, or any other printing company that can trim your prints to custom size and laminate to 11 x 17 final size. Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 facebook twitter Lawrence Transit Bus Routes Mobile App & Text Alerts Bus Trip Planner KU Parking Office Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.