Apply Visit Ask Us Request Info Index Directory Contact Us Future Students Freshman Transfer International Nontraditional Nondegree Graduate Veterinary Medicine Reentering Students Admissions Partnership Program Veterans and Military Personnel Academics Majors and Programs Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Destination Iowa State Four Year Plan Honors Program Learning Communities National Scholars Student Disability Resources Academic Success Services Financing Financial Planning Cost of Attendance Scholarships FAFSA Automatic Award Calculator International Students National Scholars Student Employment Visit Schedule a Visit Daily Campus Visit Experience Iowa State Transfer Student Visit Days Multicultural Scholars Breakfast Legacy Migration Group Visits Directions to Campus Apply Freshman Transfer International Undergraduate Graduate Nondegree Returning Students Student Life Traditions Housing Options Dining Services Student Activities Clubs and Organizations Arts and Entertainment Sports and Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Greek Affairs University Calendar TRANSIT Step 1. Login/Create Account Help Required fields denoted by * Welcome to TRANSIT For the best experience, please enable JavaScript TRANSIT is your online transportation to cruise the transfer information superhighway and help you successfully plan your journey to Iowa State University. Follow the steps to the left to test drive TRANSIT and see how coursework from your community college or university will satisfy the degree requirements for your selected course of study at Iowa State. Use TRANSIT as often as you'd like. It's the perfect vehicle to take to take you on your next great educational adventure-- Iowa State University! The transcript and preliminary degree evaluation provided on this site are unofficial. Upon admission to Iowa State University, official information will be made available to you. New User Create an account to begin to use the TRANSIT system. Creating a TRANSIT account allows you to save your information and transfer coursework - providing you with the opportunity to make changes and additions to your transfer coursework as you map out the best transfer route. Get Started Returning User If you've already created a TRANSIT account, login below to continue an existing trip or start a new journey. User Id * Forgot your username? Password * Forgot your Password? If you choose not to create an account, you may use the TRANSIT system with a Guest Login. Office of Admissions, Enrollment Services Center, Ames, IA 50011 - 2011 | Phone: (800) 262-3810 Copyright © 1995-2012, Iowa State University | Consumer Information Disclosures | College Portrait