Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Parking Citation Appeals Process The appeal process allows a customer to appeal a parking citation believed to have been issued in error. The appeal form must be completed within 14 calendar days of the issue date of the citation. Appeals that are submitted beyond the fourteen-day period or appeals that are vague or incomplete will be rejected. There must be substantial and valid evidence that the parking violation was not committed, or that it occurred due to circumstances beyond the customer’s control. Valid documentation of the evidence must be provided when the appeal is submitted. When appealing pay by space violations, please submit your receipt or the last 4 digits of the credit card used to pay, including payments made by Parkmobile. Copies of bank statements will not be accepted. The following reasons are considered as frivolous and not valid as a basis for appeal: Lack of knowledge of the regulations, for example, new to campus or have not reviewed regulations; Other vehicles were parked improperly; Only parked illegally for a short period of time; Stated failure of parking officer to ticket previously for similar offenses; Late to class or appointment; Inability to pay the amount of the fine; No other place to park. Appeals may be filed online. Public access computers are available in computer access labs on campus, in many public libraries and at our Customer Assistance Center at Polo Rd. Building, Suite 350. Student Appeals The Student Parking Appeals Board receives and adjudicates visitor and student appeals. Three members constitute a quorum for all meetings. The board meets on a regularly scheduled basis of not less than semi-weekly during the semester, including summer sessions. The board will not meet during dead week, finals week, Christmas break, or Spring break. Students desiring to appeal a citation, must obtain, complete and submit an appeals form to the Transportation Services office within 14 days of the date of the citation. The appellant will be notified in writing by the Transportation Services office of the board’s decision. All student appeal decisions will be sent to your Official TAMU email account. All decisions rendered by the Appeals Board are final and re-appeals are not available. The appeals board has the authority to dispose of a case by: Upholding the charge(s) completely Upholding the charge(s) but reducing the fine to whatever amount it feels is appropriate in light of extenuating circumstances Dismissing the charges completely Faculty & Staff Appeals The Faculty/Staff Parking Appeals Board receives and adjudicates faculty and staff appeals. Three members constitute a quorum for all meetings. The board meets on a regularly scheduled basis of not less than monthly during the fiscal year. Faculty and Staff desiring to appeal a citation must obtain, complete and submit an appeals form to the Transportation Services office within 14 days of the date of the citation. Appellants must submit their appeals in online. The appellant will be notified in writing by the Transportation Services office of the board’s decision. All decisions rendered by the Appeals Board are final and re-appeals are not available. The appeals board has the authority to dispose of a case by: Upholding the charge(s) completely Upholding the charge(s) but reducing the fine to whatever amount it feels is appropriate in light of extenuating circumstances Dismissing the charges completely More Parking Resources Online Appeal Form How do I appeal a citation? Parking My Account Find My DPR Visitor Info Disabled Retirees Vendors RV Sports Camps Department/Group Parking Regulations Break & Summer Parking Night & Weekend Parking Parking Maps Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03