Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Transit Transit Service Information Students, faculty and staff possessing a Texas A&M University or Blinn College ID, and members of the general public possessing a Brazos Transit District ID may ride both on- and off-campus bus routes. Individuals without an ID will be allowed to ride and given information on how to obtain an approved ID. All service dates and times are subject to change. Please check the Leave Times & Maps page for specific leave times. There is no service on holidays, on nights and weekends during break service, or on home football gamedays. All buses are equipped with lifts for wheelchair access and wheelchair restraints. For more information about our accessible services, please visit our Customers with Disabilities page. Bus routes Night Service During Fall and Spring Service, Night Service runs Monday through Friday from 7:00 p.m. to midnight. On all off-campus routes and on-campus routes 01 Bonfire, Night/Weekend 03 Yell Practice, Night/Weekend 04 Gig 'em and 05 Bush School. more Weekend Service Excluding home football gamedays, Weekend Service runs during Fall and Spring semesters 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays. Gameday Shuttles On home football gamedays, Transportation Services will offer limited transit service on and off campus. Gameday shuttle routes Real-time bus locations Paratransit service is available from Lot 88 ($20 parking fee), next to the General Services Complex, to Kyle Field (Zone entrance) 3 hours prior to kick-off, throughout the game, until 1 hour after the game. Questions? Call 979.847.RIDE (7433) prior to gameday. more Break Service Break Service operates Monday through Friday only, from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Leave Times & Maps Weekend & Night Service is not offered during this time. All dates and times are subject to change. Please check the Leave Times & Maps frequently for updates. See also: Break Parking Break/Weekend Shuttle Transit Service Dates more Park and Ride Our Park and Ride stop is located at First Baptist Church of College Station and is serviced by Route 34 (Fish Camp). Customers who do not live directly on a bus route may drive a short distance to an area where parking is allowed and catch the bus at the nearest stop. Unlimited bus service to all areas of College Station/Bryan is not economically practical so a Park and Ride option was developed. This allows access to all who choose not to purchase a parking permit. Park and Ride map Route 34 map more Airport Shuttles Transportation Services operates a route to Easterwood Airport partners with vendors who provide service to other airports. Transportation Services offers free transit service to Easterwood Airport via Route 07 (Airport). Service times vary depending on the day of the week and the time of the year. Bus Routes GroundShuttle.com offers shuttle service between Easterwood Airport and George Bush Intercontinental or Hobby Airport in Houston and to Austin Bergstrom airport in Austin. Ground Shuttle Shuttlewizard.com offers 24/7 unlimited, nationwide shuttle service throughout the US. Texas A&M students and university personnel can use the coupon code for additional discounts. Shuttle Wizard There are also several local taxi companies who can provide both in-town and out-of-town service. Texas A&M Transportation Services is not affiliated with, funded by, or in any way associated with the above listed vendors. more Weekend Shuttles Transportation Services has partnered with two companies who provide out-of-town shuttle service on weekends and during university breaks. Coach USA offers weekend and holiday service to Houston, Dallas, and Grand Prairie with connectivity via Megabus to other destinations. Weekend service departs College Station on Friday and returns Sunday. RedCoach offers affordable luxury line service to Dallas and Houston. Amenities include free Wi-Fi, 110v power outlets, no baggage fees, spacious legroom and bed-like seats that recline up to 140 degrees. Student discounts available. Coach USA RedCoach more BTD Brazos Transit District and Transportation Services have a history of cooperation and partnership dating back to 2006. Students, faculty and staff possessing a Texas A&M University or Blinn College ID, and members of the general public possessing a Brazos Transit District ID must be prepared to show their ID to the driver when boarding at off-campus stops. Brazos Transit District more Upcoming Service Change Dates Transit Leave Times & Maps Service Dates Service Information How to Ride Paratransit Charters Park N Ride Transit Advertising Gameday Service Airport Shuttle Break/Weekend Shuttle About Transit Transit FAQs Transportation Services 1373 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.847.7433 (RIDE) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03