Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Incentives Sustainable Commuters Sustainable Commuters Sustainable Commuters Learn about fellow Columbians who experiment with their commute modes, choosing more efficient and sustainable transportation to and from work, and how you can make more informed decisions about your own travel options. Click on each commuter to see what they said about their commute. Peter Kelemen (Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences; Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory) commutes via kayak from Hastings-on-Hudson, NY to the Lamont campus. Peter Kelemen (Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences; Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory) commutes via kayak from Hastings-on-Hudson, NY to the Lamont campus. George Sarrinikolaou (Office of Academic and Research Programs, The Earth Institute) commutes by bike to Morningside campus from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. George Sarrinikolaou (Office of Academic and Research Programs, The Earth Institute) commutes by bike to Morningside campus from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Columbia Professor Huiming Yin Starts Vanpool for Bergen County Commuters Columbia professor Huiming Yin started a vanpool for Bergen County Commuters traveling from Tenafly, NJ to the Morningside campus. Cindy Smalletz (Narrative Medicine Program) and Doug McAndrew (College of Dental Medicine) commute to CUIMC by folding bike and New Jersey Transit from Glen Ridge, New Jersey. Cindy Smalletz (Narrative Medicine Program) and Doug McAndrew (College of Dental Medicine) commute to CUIMC by folding bike and New Jersey Transit from Glen Ridge, New Jersey. Sharan Kaur (Columbia Technology Ventures) commutes via Metro-North train and Intercampus Shuttle from Scarsdale, NY to the Morningside campus. Sharan Kaur (Columbia Technology Ventures) commutes via Metro-North train and Intercampus Shuttle from Scarsdale, NY to the Morningside campus. Sustainable commuters were celebrated at the 2nd Annual Bike Champions Recognition Breakfast on October 25, 2018 on College Walk at the Morningside campus. Sustainable commuters were celebrated at the 2nd Annual Bike Champions Recognition Breakfast on October 25, 2018 on College Walk at the Morningside campus. William Forsyth, a second-year student in the Masters of Public Health (MPH) program at the Medical Center campus, takes the ferry with his bike from Red Hook, Brooklyn to Wall Street and then rides from Wall Street to CUIMC. William Forsyth, a second-year student in the Masters of Public Health (MPH) program at the Medical Center campus, takes the ferry with his bike from Red Hook, Brooklyn to Wall Street and then rides from Wall Street to CUIMC. Mirte Maas, student in the School of General Studies (GS), rides her bike from Soho along the Hudson River. Mirte Maas, student in the School of General Studies (GS), rides her bike from Soho along the Hudson River. Kaimi Huang (Financial Analyst at the Columbia University School of Nursing) rides her bike from Chelsea to CUIMC in the warm months. Kaimi Huang, Financial Analyst at the Columbia University School of Nursing, rides her bike from Chelsea to CUIMC in the warm months. We’re always looking for sustainable, fun, and innovative travel stories to share. Students, faculty, and staff are invited to submit their personal stories, images, and videos that exemplify the many sustainable ways the Columbia community travels. Email your commute stories to [email protected], and you could be featured here. Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close