Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute & Travel Options Bike Bike Bike question-circle icon Did You Know? New York City is home to the largest network of bicycle lanes in North America, with over 1,000 miles of bike routes. The NYC Department of Transportation (DOT) is committed to growing that network by at least 50 miles of bike lanes every year to encourage the expansion of bike culture and move toward safer streets and increased transportation options. bicycle icon Biking @ Columbia Bike commuting at Columbia has more than doubled since 2004, growing to more than 1,000 bike commuters. The University promotes the many benefits of bicycle travel as part of a healthy culture and a more sustainable Columbia. Creating a bike-friendly campus reduces traffic and parking congestion, improves the health of the University community, and offers an easy alternative travel mode to and around Columbia. Available Bike-Related Services Intercampus Shuttle Community Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Bike Share Car Share & Hire NJ Transit Student Pass: 25% Discount on Mobile Student Monthly Passes Guaranteed Ride Program Car Service Bus and Van Charters Carpool Matching Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park & Ride (Rockland County) Manhattanville Carpool Reimbursement Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Faculty and Staff Tax Incentives Bike Locks Bike Registration Outdoor Bike Racks Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Skills Education Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Parking Go Buses Bicycle Interest Group Register as a Crown Commuter and Win Bike Storage for Students Living in Residence Halls Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Purchase a Used Bike edit edit edit edit Bike Topics Hudson River Greenway Bike Trail Free from cars and close to Columbia’s Manhattan campuses is the Hudson River Greenway trail, located on the western edge of Manhattan along the banks of the Hudson River. This bicycle and walking trail is part of the 2,900-mile long East Coast Greenway that stretches from the Canadian border in Maine to Key West, Florida. See where bicyclists can access the Hudson River Greenway. George Washington Bridge by Bike A dedicated bike route separated from cars crosses the George Washington Bridge, making it easy, fun, and convenient to commute to Columbia by bike from New Jersey. Biking between Fort Lee, NJ and Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) takes about 15 minutes. Select the bike map layer in Google Maps to find your way by bike. Bikes on Transit and Columbia Shuttles Cycling to and from the train station is usually a faster way to travel. Bicycles are permitted on all NYC subways with the exception of folding bikes, which are not permitted on most NYC transit buses. The Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad have a one-time $5 permit that allows its riders to bring their bicycle onboard. Learn more about traveling with your bicycle aboard MTA trains and buses. Bike Maps and Navigation Use the Google Maps website or app and select "bicycle" to navigate using designated bike routes. To receive a copy of the NYC bike map, visit Columbia Public Safety or view an online version. Additionally, download the Columbia Bikes flyer which provides a quick overview of all the bicycle resources across our campuses. Bike Laws Attend a Rules of the Road education class with Bike NY or learn about safe bicycling practices that are specific to NYC from the New York City Department of Transportation. View these educational videos to learn techniques for improving your ride, your rights as a bicyclist, and how to ride safely on the road. Become a safer rider through Traffic Skills 101, a free and convenient online course from the League of American Bicyclists. Bike Events On-campus events like Ride Your Bike to Campus Days and Velocity, Columbia’s annual ride to end cancer, happen each year. Join the Bicycle Interest Group or check out the Columbia Events calendar to learn more! A variety of large and small-scale bike ride events are also offered through Bike NY. Proceeds from Bike NY events fund their free bike education programs throughout the city year-round. Abandoned & Illegally Parked Bicycles In order to maximize availability of bike parking and to maintain the upkeep of campus grounds, Columbia has developed the Bicycle Parking Protocol to manage bikes that are abandoned or illegally parked. Bikes that are illegally parked or stored at bike racks for extended periods of time will be subject to removal by Public Safety or Facilities personnel. Bicycle Groups Columbia‘s Transportation Focus Group develops initiatives to enhance and grow bike culture at Columbia. The group is made up of representatives from various University departments, students, and faculty. The group supports the transportation goals outlined in Columbia’s Sustainability Plan. Travel Times by Bike Getting there by bike is usually faster, healthier, and way more fun than other commute modes. Estimated travel times for some useful routes are listed below. Click the links to view a route map. 10 New York City blocks: 4 minutes Battery Park ➞ Morningside Heights: 42 minutes Morningside Heights ➞ Medical Center: 21 minutes Upper East Side ➞ Morningside Heights: 15 minutes Fort Lee, NJ, ➞ Medical Center: 15 minutes Morningside Heights ➞ Manhattanville: 8 minutes Bike News October 19, 2020 Fall 2020 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Sign up to receive this newsletter in your inbox. Tags BikeBicycle Interest Group June 29, 2020 Citi Bike Set to Expand to 184th Street this Summer Citi Bike is expanding its network and is expected to reach 184th Street this summer. The expansion will provide more sustainable and healthy travel alternatives for those living uptown. Tags Bike August 30, 2019 Columbia again ranked as Top Performer in 2019 AASHE Sustainable Campus Index Columbia Transportation earned first place in The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE)'s 2019 Sustainable Campus Index for the fifth time. Tags SustainabilityAwardsBike More News The League of American Bicyclists has recognized Columbia University as a Silver Bicycle Friendly University℠ and a Silver Bicycle Friendly Business℠ for its efforts in supporting bicycling. Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close