Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute Stories: Huiming Yin Starts Vanpool for Bergen County Commuters Commute Stories: Huiming Yin Starts Vanpool for Bergen County Commuters Huiming Yin Starts Vanpool for Bergen County Commuters Before the Columbia-bound Tenafly, New Jersey vanpool formed, Margaret Edsall struggled to commute to Columbia using public transportation. Margaret works on the Morningside Campus as the associate vice president for Academic Planning in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, but her commute over the George Washington Bridge (GWB) from Bergen County, New Jersey was causing stress and shortening her day. “Before the Tenafly vanpool formed, I couldn't be as productive between nine and five; I could only be productive between ten and four,” Margaret said. “I had to do more work at night and on weekends just to stay caught up. I am sure that this is the case for others who live in Tenafly and Bergen County.” Currently, the Tenafly vanpool is serving several Columbia commuters that live in Bergen County. Each morning they meet at a designated parking area in Tenafly and travel across the GWB, stopping at the Manhattanville and Morningside campuses. Both a monthly payment option and a casual rider payment option exist to fund the vanpool. Depending on rider demand, the van can make up to two runs across the GWB to Columbia to collect commuters. The vanpool was started by Huiming Yin, an associate professor in the Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at Columbia. Huiming knew that due to traffic on the GWB and parking congestion in Manhattan, there was a need to pool commuters together, make our transportation network more efficient, and improve the overall commute experience. This is not a new concept for Columbia commuters, but Huiming identified a communication gap that he is working on solving with Flexible Integrated Transportation Systems (FITS). FITS Commute is a cooperative research project between Columbia and NDJ Sustainable Engineering LLC, FITS Commute includes an app that riders can use to track the van and to RSVP for rides. The project aims to develop a smart, flexible, reliable commute service that can be as convenient and fast as driving alone, but as economically and environmentally friendly as public transit. “Now, I arrive at work and at home in a great mood,” Margaret said. “I can concentrate better on my work when I’m at work, and I relax and unwind in the evening for a reasonable amount of time.” While Columbia Transportation and the Office of Environmental Stewardship are not specifically affiliated with FITS Commute, the University encourages employees and students to use sustainable modes of travel like car/vanpools, bicycles, and public transportation. Want to share your commute story? Email Sustainable Columbia at [email protected] to be featured! Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close