Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute Stories: Peter Kelemen Commute Stories: Peter Kelemen Peter Kelemen (Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences; Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory) commutes via kayak from Hastings-on-Hudson, NY to the Lamont campus Peter Kelemen (Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences; Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory) commutes via kayak from Hastings-on-Hudson, NY to the Lamont campus. In 2004, Peter moved to Hastings-on-Hudson from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Hastings-on-Hudson is about halfway between the George Washington Bridge and Tappan Zee Bridge; a 25-minute drive to Lamont. “As it turns out, Hastings is directly across the river from Lamont,” Peter said “The river’s only a mile wide, and because I moved from Cape Cod with two kayaks, I realized I could kayak across the river. But it's more difficult than I thought it would be. I have to load the kayak on the car, drive down to the river, park the car, pay the meter, and get the kayak into the water. I paddle straight over to the west side and lock my kayak to a tree, which is at the bottom of a pretty waterfall. Then I remove all the moving parts off the boat to take with me, as well as the paddle. All told, it takes me about an hour and 15 minutes door-to-door, and 20 to 30 minutes of that is in the kayak. I hike up. There’s a break in the cliff and a notably steep trail – part of what makes this commute such good exercise – which goes from route 9W right along the border of Lamont and Palisades Park, steeply down to the river. Kayaking is great exercise and helps me reduce my carbon footprint. Also, when I return home, I get to see a spectacular view of the George Washington Bridge and Manhattan, looking down the river from the kayak. The nighttime view is amazing, but I don’t kayak in the dead of winter because when the water is cold, it’s not safe. I make sure to wear a wetsuit in the late fall and early spring.” Despite the challenge, Peter said that overall, he is happier when he kayaks. Want to share your commute story? Email Sustainable Columbia at [email protected] to be featured! Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close