Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute Stories: Mirte Maas Commute Stories: Mirte Maas Mirte Maas, GS student, rides her bike from Soho along the Hudson River. Mirte Maas, student in the School of General Studies (GS), rides her bike from Soho along the Hudson River. If weather permits, Mirte rides her bike to Columbia from her home in Soho every day she has class. Her commute is a 6.2-mile ride along the Hudson River up the West Side Highway. "It's quite a safe and beautiful track," she said. "Growing up in the Netherlands, I learned to ride a bicycle around the same time as I learned to walk.” For Mirte, riding a bike is a way to clear her mind and decompress. Sometimes she listens to music, and lately she's become addicted to a newfound podcast called Crime Junkie. It takes her roughly the same amount of time to bike as it does to take the Subway, give or take five minutes. "But when I bike, I can feel good about skipping the gym that day," Mirte said. "I honestly have a moment of sadness when I wake up and it's raining that day." If Mirte knows she might have to stay at school late, she swaps her beloved TokyoBike™ for a Citi Bike. It's hard to estimate how many miles she's ridden throughout New York City over the past couple of years, but according to her Citi Bike history stats alone she's biked well over 2,000 miles! Want to share your commute story? Email Sustainable Columbia at [email protected] to be featured! Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close