Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Transit How to Ride Guide The on-campus service shuttle serves students, faculty, and staff by shuttling them around the Texas A&M University campus from parking lots to academic buildings. Off-campus service shuttles students, faculty, and staff from campus to various locations off-campus such as residential and shopping areas. Night & Weekend Service is provided during the fall and spring semester. Exact times and information can be found on the Leave Times & Maps page. All buses are equipped with lifts for wheelchair access and wheelchair restraints. For more information about our accessible services, please visit our Customers with Disabilities page. Quick Tips Visit the Leave Times & Maps page for updated maps and leave times Decide which route you must take and the closest stop to you Wait for the bus at a designated AggieSpirit bus stop Have your Texas A&M, Blinn or Brazos Transit District ID ready to show the driver when boarding our buses at off-campus stops. Enter through the front doors Exit through the rear doors Bus does not stop at all stops Let the driver know you need off by pulling the cord How to Get Around First you must know what route you need to take to get you to your destination. Please check the Leave Times & Maps page for route maps or call 979-847-7433 (RIDE) and they will assist you with finding the proper route and destination. Next go to the nearest AggieSpirit bus stop to your location. Passenger pick-up and drop off occurs ONLY at designated AggieSpirit bus stops. Make sure the proper route number is displayed on the sign at which you are waiting. For an example see the bus routes sign image. Make sure you arrive at the bus stop with plenty of time before the next scheduled leave time as the bus will only pick you up if you are waiting at a designated AggieSpirit bus stop. When the bus arrives please enter the bus through the front doors only. Have a seat if available, relax and watch for your destination. If you are standing, stand behind the yellow line in the front of the bus and never stand or sit in the stairwells of the bus. AggieSpirit buses DO NOT stop at every bus stop on their designated routes. Let the driver know you want off at the next designated bus stop by either pulling the Stop Request cord or pushing the yellow tape (whichever is present on that bus) after the bus leaves or passes the designated stop immediately before the one you desire the driver to stop at. Please pay attention so that you do not miss your stop. Once the bus has pulled away from a stop the driver is not permitted to let passengers on or off for safety reasons. When you exit the bus check around for any belongings you brought with you as Transportation Services is not responsible for items left on the bus. Exit the bus through the rear doors only. After exiting the bus walk behind the bus and use the crosswalk to cross the street. Brazos Transit District Information Transit Leave Times & Maps Service Dates Service Information How to Ride Paratransit Charters Park N Ride Transit Advertising Gameday Service Airport Shuttle Break/Weekend Shuttle About Transit Transit FAQs Transportation Services 1373 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.847.7433 (RIDE) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03