Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Parking I Use University Parking I Use University Parking Parking Rules, Procedures, and Payment Know before you park! The following rules and procedures apply to everyone who uses Morningside Heights, Manhattanville, and Arbor garage parking. Parking privileges are non-transferable under any circumstances. Expand all Collapse all Parking Permits and Multiple Vehicle Registration Limited to Parker and Vehicle(s) on record with the Parking Office – no Subleases or Transfers Parking is limited to the parker and vehicle(s) on record with the Parking Office only. No subleasing of a parking space is permitted. All parkers are issued a parking sticker that must be placed on the back of the driver's side part of the center rearview mirror. Parking Sticker Required The University reserves the right to refuse admittance to the parking facilities to anyone who does not possess a valid parking sticker on the reverse side of their rearview mirror. Registration of Two Vehicles – One-at-a-time Parking Parkers who intend to use more than one vehicle must state so on their initial application and must submit a copy of the second vehicle registration to [email protected] Only one registered vehicle per parker will be allowed in the parking facilities at any given time. Proof of Registration If you use University parking, you must provide copies of vehicle registrations every three years when requested by Columbia Parking. The vehicle must be registered to the parker, spouse, or same sex domestic partner as recognized by Human Resources. If this vehicle is registered to a spouse or domestic partner, please submit a copy of your marriage certificate or certificate of domestic partnership to [email protected] if you have not already done so. I Want to Report a Change in Address Changes in address and other updates of personal information must be provided to the Parking Office by emailing [email protected]. Parking assignments are subject to re-evaluation by the University Parking Committee when there is a change of address. I Want to Cancel or Suspend My Parking Cancelling Your Parking Account Parkers who wish to cancel their parking account must do so in writing (i.e. send an email to [email protected]) at least 30 days in advance of the requested termination date. Charges apply through the termination date and will be prorated accordingly. In no event will retroactive credit be granted if the parker fails to provide advance written notification of cancellation to Columbia Parking. If You Take a Leave of Absence Parkers on a University-approved leave may suspend their parking privileges upon 30 days' written notice to Columbia Parking ([email protected]). Supporting documentation must be provided. If You Want to Suspend Parking Over the Summer Parking may be suspended over the summer; this is limited to May through August. Email [email protected] with a minimum of 30 days' prior notice. If You Leave the University Parkers who retire and wish to continue parking must apply for extension of privileges via email request submitted to [email protected]; such requests will be reviewed by the University Parking Committee at its monthly session. Parkers who otherwise terminate their affiliation with the University are no longer eligible for parking and must relinquish when they cease to be affiliated with the University. See “Cancelling Your Parking Account.” I Have a New or Temporary Vehicle If Your Vehicle Changes Parkers who change vehicles or add new vehicles must submit a copy of the vehicle registration to [email protected] in advance of parking. Non-registered vehicles are subject to booting. There is a $200 cash fee to remove the boot. In the case of an emergency that requires the use of a temporary vehicle, send an email to [email protected] to avoid booting. I Haven’t Received My Parking Permit Sticker New parking permit stickers are issued for commuter parkers and 24/7 parkers annually, and are mailed to your home address in December. If you haven’t received your permit sticker by December 31, send an email to [email protected]. Part-Time Permits Part-Time Commuter Parking Limitations Adjunct faculty, including part-time lecturers and instructors, approved for part-time parking may park only on the days indicated on their application. To change the days, parkers must submit a request in writing to [email protected] for approval. Payment Information and Rules 24-Hour and Commuter Parkers (Applicable to full-time Columbia faculty and administrators) 24-hour and commuter parkers must pay parking fees via payroll deduction. A refundable parking deposit paid via check payable to Columbia University is also required for 24-hour and commuter parkers. Adjunct Faculty, Student and Summer Parking Adjunct faculty and students must pay the semester parking fee in full prior to receiving their permit. Summer parkers must also pay the semester parking fee in full prior to receiving their permit. Parking Fees Paid by a University Department Parkers whose fees are paid by a University department must provide an authorized Departmental Paid Parking Fees Authorization Form. Non-qualified parking paid by a department may be considered to be a taxable benefit under IRS regulations; please see IRS Publication 15-B for more information. Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption Parking rates include 18.375% total parking taxes, comprising 4% New York State tax, 8% Borough of Manhattan tax, 6% New York City local tax, and the .375% Metropolitan Commuter Transportation District tax. Parkers who are Manhattan residents may be eligible for an exemption from the 8% Borough of Manhattan parking tax. To receive an exemption from the 8% Borough of Manhattan tax, Manhattan residents must complete an application and submit it to the NYC Department of Finance (DOF). Applications (both an online version and a mail-in form) are available from the NYC Department of Finance. Upon approval, a Parking Tax Exemption Certificate will be mailed to you by the Department of Finance. Please send a copy of the Parking Operator's Certificate to the Parking Office by mail, email, or fax. As per Department of Finance policy, you must apply for tax exemption renewals. Please note that the certificate has an expiration no later than two years from issuance, dependent on the application date (all certificates expire on August 31). You should receive a reminder notice from DOF, but please note that Columbia Parking cannot apply on your behalf and is required to collect the additional tax if a renewal certificate is not submitted. Please see the Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption Brochure for details. There is no exemption available from the remaining tax. Renewing My Tax Exemption (for Manhattan residents) Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption Parkers who are Manhattan residents may be eligible for an exemption from the 8% Borough of Manhattan tax. To confirm eligibility, Manhattan residents must complete an application and submit it to the NYC Department of Finance (DOF). Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption applications (both an online version and a mail-in form) are available from the NYC Department of Finance. Upon approval, a Parking Tax Exemption Certificate will be mailed to you by the Department of Finance. Please send a copy of the certificate to the Parking Office by mail, email, or fax (see Contact Us page). As per Department of Finance policy, you must apply for renewals - you should receive a reminder notice from the DOF, but please note that the Parking Office cannot apply on your behalf and is required to collect the additional tax if a renewal certificate is not submitted to the Parking Office. Please see the Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption Brochure for more details. There is no exemption available for the remaining tax. Violations and Loss of Privileges Loss of Parking Privileges Parkers who falsify their applications, allow others to use their stickers or card access, park more than one vehicle in the lot at any one time or use their space for long term vehicle storage will have parking privileges revoked. Parkers whose accounts are 90 days past due are also subject to termination of their parking privileges. Violations of Rules/Vehicle Booting The University reserves the right to refuse admittance to the parking facility or place a boot on any vehicle that is not the vehicle of record or is a parker's second car (including carpools) if they have a vehicle of record already parked in the lot. There is a $200 cash fee to remove the boot. Liability and Damages Neither the University nor its contracted garage management firm(s) assume any responsibility for self-parked cars. For vehicles valet-parked, the University assumes no responsibility for removable radios and other equipment and personal items left in the vehicle. All damage claims must be reported to the garage manager or attendant on duty by the parker before exiting the lot. The University does not provide insurance for individual vehicle owners and accepts no responsibility for vandalism, theft, malicious mischief, or other damage not caused by University parking attendants. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Below-grade parking at Morningside campus is equipped with electric vehicle charging stations in both commuter and 24-hour parking garages. For parking permit-holders in the Engineering Terrace, International Affairs Building, and 560 Riverside Drive garages, there is no additional cost to charge your electric vehicle at Columbia. Parking at Columbia Parking Options Current Parkers Rules and Procedures Parking Policy Daily Parking Departmental Authorization Form Parking Alternatives Contact Columbia Parking Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close