Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Transportation Services myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Bus Service Select to follow link KU on Wheels Bus Advertising Program Late Night Services Select to follow link SafeRide SafeBus Lost & Found Shuttles About Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Transportation Services Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Bus Service Read about the comprehensive Route Redesign process currently underway. Details on Route Redesign KU on Wheels Together, the City of Lawrence and University of Kansas provide safe, convenient, affordable, reliable and responsive public transportation services to enhance the social, economic and environmental well-being of the community. KU and the City of Lawrence (Lawrence Transit) have partnered since 2008 to coordinate campus and city bus systems, providing the most efficient service possible with our transit resources. Campus is a 'fare free' zone, and students, faculty, and staff can board any bus in Lawrence free with their KU Card. While KU on Wheels and Lawrence Transit remain two separate entities with separate funding and governance structures, we've achieved our goal of making it operated as a single transit system. We coordinate our services in a variety of ways, such as jointly publishing a single Transit Guide, publishing route and schedule information on a single website, and providing a single location and phone number for customer service, lost & found and feedback. Funding KU's Student Senate oversees the funding of KU on Wheels, JayLift and SafeRide. The funding for these programs is part of the required campus fees, which are reviewed by Student Senate's Finance Committee and Fee Review Subcommittee on an annual basis. The three fees are the Transportation Fee (for the operations of KU on Wheels & JayLift), the Bus Acquisition Fee (for the purchase of buses) and the SafeRide Fee (for the operations of SafeRide). Fee increases are typically "inflationary," based on the rising costs of fuel and our contract for service. A fee increase may be requested in order to add new services. In 2008, the KU student body voted to approve a referendum for an additional $20 fee increase in order to make the buses "fare free" for all students. In the following academic year, bus ridership nearly doubled! Governance The Transit Commission makes decisions regarding the transportation services, including KU on Wheels, JayLift and SafeRide. Operational decisions made by the Transit Commission — those affecting day to day service — are considered final and are implemented as directed by Transportation Services staff. Policy decisions are forwarded to the Provost for approval before implementation. History Public Transportation has long been one of the ways to get up the steep hill we know as Mount Oread. In fact, streetcars operated on and around the Lawrence campus from 1910 to 1933. The Lawrence Bus Company operated the public transportation in Lawrence until 1971. When Lawrence Bus Company closed down its public operations, KU on Wheels was created to keep transportation for students on campus. KU on Wheels operated under Student Senate oversight from 1971 until 2007, when it moved to the KU Parking & Transit office (now KU Transportation Services). Tools for Riders Routes and Times Service Calendar Mobile App & Text Alerts Google Trip Planner Allen Fieldhouse Garage 1501 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 38, 41, 42 kupark@ku.edu 785-864-7275 facebook twitter Lawrence Transit Bus Routes Mobile App & Text Alerts Bus Trip Planner KU Parking Office Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.