Transportation and Parking Services Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Getting to Campus Submenu My Commute Submenu Ivy Lane Impacts Biking & Walking Submenu Bike & Scooter Parking Routes & Resources Mobility Safety Public Transit Submenu Buses Trains TigerTransit Driving Submenu Parking & Transit Maps Sharing a Ride Taxis & Ride-Hailing Services Getting Around Submenu Bikes & Scooters Submenu Bike Rentals & Bikeshare Bring Your Own Report Lost or Stolen Mobility Safety TigerTransit Submenu Routes & Schedules After Hours Services Accessible Transit Services Carshare Submenu Enterprise Carshare Zipcar Taxis & Ride-Hailing Services Department Resources Submenu Event Services Revise Your Ride Submenu Enroll In Revise Your Ride Faculty & Staff Benefits Submenu Bike or Walk 50% Transit Subsidy NJ Transit Bus Pass Carpool & Vanpool Commute Consultation Graduate Student Benefits Submenu 50% Transit Subsidy NJ Transit Bus Pass Commute Consultation Parking Submenu Get Your Permit Submenu Faculty & Staff Permits Graduate Student Permits Undergraduate Student Permits Departmental Permits Visiting Campus & Events Submenu COVID Vaccinations Visitor Parking Events & Athletic Facilities Department Guests Contractors, Service Providers, & Vendors Electric Vehicle Parking Citations & Appeals Princeton Station ♿ Campus Accessibility Submenu Accessible Parking Accessible Transit Services Accessible Paths & Entrances My Transportation Campus Mobility Framework Maps Policies Contact Us Search Search Home Getting Around Alerts Summer Parking Update All faculty, staff, and graduate student permit holders may park in the West and North garages through August 19. TPS is actively monitoring parking utilization on campus and will continue to provide more flexible parking options throughout the summer if possible. Note that on University holidays (May 30, May 31, June 17, June 20, July 4, July 5, and September 5) permit holders may park in any numbered lot and TigerTransit will not be in service. X TigerTransit Pardon our "transit--ion” TigerTransit is getting an upgrade! The University is in the process of introducing a more sustainable fleet of buses to campus in 2022. Free and public shuttle service **Masks are no longer required for passengers or drivers on TigerTransit** Princeton University’s TigerTransit shuttle system operates on a fixed route schedule, providing safe, convenient, and reliable transportation throughout the Princeton campus and surrounding community. There are TigerTransit stops located near most major academic and administrative buildings, commuter parking lots, and housing facilities. The system is free and open to the public, with two exceptions: After-hours services, including Late Night On-Demand and UMatter, are restricted to students, faculty, staff, and affiliates. Route 4 service from Princeton Junction to campus may only carry University students, commuting staff and faculty, and those traveling to Princeton on University business or campus visits. Commuting faculty, staff, and students should be prepared to show University ID. TigerTransit Routes & Schedules Where can TigerTransit take you? See detailed route information. After Hours Services Getting late? Request an on-demand shuttle or take the UMatter bus from Prospect Ave. Accessible Services Learn more about TigerTransit's fully accessible fleet and the new schedule-a-ride van service, TigerAccess. Real-time arrivals Save your usual stop(s) as a browser bookmark or display on a public screen in your building using these URLs from TripShot. Find your stop Leave something behind? If you leave something on a TigerTransit bus, you can call TigerTransit dispatch at 609-874-0699 to see if it has been found or is still on the bus. TigerTransit is designed for the campus community. Learn about how Transportation and Parking Services determines routes and stops. Principles of Service Footer Footer menu The Service Point About Us Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University