Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home News & Announcements Fall 2020 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Newsletter Fall 2020 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Sign up to receive this newsletter in your inbox. October 19, 2020 Dear Bicycle Interest Group member, We are thinking of you and your loved ones during this time and we hope you have been able to find some joy despite the circumstances. Below we have compiled a list of updates and news items relating to the progression of bicycle travel infrastructure and services at Columbia and around NYC. We understand in recent months bicycle travel within NYC has become a more commonly-used mode of travel due to the pandemic; unfortunately, this is coupled with a recent rise in cyclist deaths from being struck by motor vehicles. While Columbia continues to encourage bicycle travel as a healthy and sustainable travel option, we strongly urge cyclists to review the road rules and information for safe cycling which are provided in this newsletter. New covered and secure bike parking area at Manhattanville campus Over the summer, Columbia opened a new sheltered and secure bike parking option on the Manhattanville campus, inside the parking garage on 131St Street. The garage is easily accessible and at ground level, and Manhattanville campus employees may use it free of charge. Additionally, after consultation with NYC Department of Transportation, extra curb-side bike parking options were added to 132nd Street outside Studebaker, and also on Broadway near the 131st Street intersection. Click here for information on how to access the new parking facility on the Manhattanville campus. Bike maintenance stations added to CUIMC sheltered bikeparking areas CUIMC Facilities has added a bike tire pump and basic bike maintenance repair tools to their sheltered bike parking areas, free for Columbia employees. Locations: 1) Russ Berrie/School of Nursing parking garage between Audubon Ave. and St. Nicholas Ave. (enter the parking garage on the north side of the street) *The garage can only be accessed during open hours: 7:00am-11:00pm, M-F 2) 100 Haven Avenue parking garage. Open 24/7/365. Click here to learn more. Improved policy for use of Morningside commuter bike parking enclosures In an effort to better manage valuable campus space, as well as to improve the upkeep and availability of secure and sheltered bike parking spaces, new policies are now in place for the use of Columbia’s commuter bike parking enclosures. View the full policy text here. Citi Bike expands to Washington Heights and South Bronx Citi Bike expanded service from 130th Street to 184th Street, river to river which includes new service to CUIMC. This is a huge benefit for transportation at Columbia, as our primary campuses are now connected by a popular bike share system, making biking a viable choice for intercampus travel. See Citi Bike’s system map here. More News Citi Bike’s improving their rebalancing system through Bike Angles and Valet parking. Learn more. More electric pedal-assist Citi Bikes making your uphill Columbia commute a breeze. Learn more. New one-minute bike safety training videos by the League of American Bicyclists added to Columbia Transportation website. Learn more. Information about purchasing a used bike added to the Columbia Transportation website. Learn more. Browse these well-being workshops offered by the Office of Work/Life. Learn more. Columbia continues development on its next sustainability plan despite COVID-19 challenges. Learn more. Columbia Transportation survey results show fewer drive-alone commutes and more walking commutes; bike commuting generally remains steady. Learn more. More commute and travel resources: For additional information about your travel options, including important information for being a cyclist at Columbia, visit Columbia’s Transportation website. On behalf of the Sustainable Columbia Working Group for Transportation, thank you for being enthusiastic about bicycling and active travel. Subscribe To subscribe to this newsletter, sign up here. Be well, Daniel Allalemdjian Director, Transportation Demand Management Office of Environmental Stewardship Daniela Elazari Director of Well-Being Office of Work/Life These initiatives contribute to the goals outlined in Columbia’s Sustainability Plan. Tags Bike Bicycle Interest Group News May 17, 2022 Summer Schedule for Intercampus Shuttle Begins May 23 April 12, 2022 Expanded Intercampus Shuttle Schedule Beginning April 18 March 15, 2022 Evening Shuttle (Via) Coverage Area Expanded to 137th Street January 28, 2022 Winter Storm Watch in Effect January 28 - 29 January 05, 2022 Evening Shuttle (Via) Coverage Area Expanded to Adam Clayton Powell Blvd. Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close