Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Event Parking Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Event Parking Event Parking Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Advertising Employment Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Careers Openings Testimonials Mission & Vision Core Values Bring your passion to our purpose Transportation Services has various positions in multiple fields that can help prepare you for the next step in your career. We have student and staff opportunities in Information Technology, Vehicle Maintenance, Human Resources, Marketing, Customer Service, Parking Services, and Transportation. Search for available jobs that match what you are looking for below! All positions Student Full time Wage Our Mission Transportation Services is an empowered team of professionals dedicated to providing efficient, dynamic and innovative fleet, parking and transit services to the community. We support the teaching, research and public service mission of Texas A&M University, with focus on customer service and communication. (See Texas A&M University Mission Statement) Our Vision Our vision is to be the premier transportation services provider in the nation. Core Values S Service through action P Possessing integrity I Innovation that motivates R Remarkable appreciation I Inclusive of others T Teamwork and cooperation Rewards of joining our team Working with the best people in the world is only one aspect of your career here! We also provide some awesome perks for our full-time employees to help with everything outside of work as card-body. Come grow with us and become a part of Transportation Services. Perks and Discounts Texas A&M’s PerksConnect offers discounts on everything from local restaurants, movie theater tickets, vacations, online retail purchases, and insurance and benefit products. Employees are also eligible for discounted software purchases through Texas A&M’s Software Center. Get Paid to be Away from Work Vacation days are accrued monthly (8 hrs initially) with the amount increasing based off your state service time. Sick leave is accrued monthly (8 hrs). We offer an established sick leave pool to provide a source of additional paid sick leave for employees who have exhausted available accruals as a result of a catastrophic illness or injury. Employees also get paid time off from our University Holidays. Training for Professional Growth Texas A&M’s award winning professional development department offers a variety of workshops, programs and consulting services designed to enhance the professional growth and effectiveness of our employees. Secure Your Financial Future Our employees are enrolled into the Teacher Retirement System on their first day of employment. Eligible employees may also elect to participate in Optional Retirement Program instead. Employees may also participate in a voluntary TDA or DCP account in addition to TRS. Continue Your Education Budgeted Employees who have over one year of service are eligible for the Employee Tuition assistance program, which will pay up to $1,000 per college course at Texas A&M University. Employees still completing school are eligible to take company time away through the University’s educational release time. We Recognize Your Great Work We love recognizing our employees! We participate in a University wide Staff appreciation week along with a departmental staff appreciation week. We recognize employee’s great work through highlighting their services through various avenues like on our departmental webpage, a departmental service awards program voted on by their coworkers, a years of service recognition program, Division of Finance and Operations Excellence awards, and President’s Meritorious Service Awards. Know You're Covered We take part in Texas A&M’s generous Benefits package that includes a partnership through the CHI St. Joseph Health Network that gives employees a $5 copay to see a primary care physician or $15 copay to see a specialist. Longevity pay offers our employees an extra $20 each month for every two years of service with the State of Texas. Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) — Customer Assistance 979.845.9700 — Administration Contact Us FAQs Connect with us AggieParking AggieSpiritBus GetToAggieGame Instagram Facebook Facebook HR YouTube Departments Parking Transit Sustainability Fleet Advertising Texas A&M University | VP for Finance & Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03