Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat RELLIS Campus FAQs Transit General Info Parking Enforcement I'm looking for info about... Transit General Info Parking Enforcement Transit Do any bus routes service RELLIS campus? Route 47 (RELLIS) serves RELLIS. Full service will run every day of the week with two stops on Main Campus and RELLIS Campus each. Hours of operation: Monday–Friday: Service begins from Main Campus at 7am and ends with the last bus leaving RELLIS Campus at 9:30pm Saturday–Sunday: Service begins from Main Campus at 9am and ends with the last bus leaving RELLIS Campus at 4:30pm During Break Service, buses operate Monday through Friday only, from 7 am to 6 pm. Weekend & Night Service is not offered during this time. More on Break Service A&M campus bus stops: Central Houston in front of the Coke Building North Bizzell Rd. across the pedestrian path from Wisenbaker RELLIS campus bus stops: Blinn College and Alliance Academic Complex Lot 1000 Center for Infrastructural Renewal (CIR) and Texas A&M Transportation Institute (TTI) Lot 8535 General Information All of the RELLIS campus not behind the secure gates at Flight Line requires purchasing a RELLIS permit, having a Texas A&M permit with the vehicle license plate registered, paying by the hour to park, or driving a vehicle with exempt a disabled veteran or license plates. RELLIS is a permitless parking location. Your license plate is your permit. You will not receive a physical hangtag in the mail. Texas A&M permits are not valid in the following RELLIS campus lots: Blinn Employee Lot (BE) TEEX Law Building Lot (TLB) Behind the secure fence on Flightline (FL) I am a Blinn student. How do I log in to purchase a RELLIS permit? Log into your account at transport.tamu.edu/account. Use the option at the bottom left side of the page under (Blinn Students). Then use your Blinn College login credentials. I am a Texas A&M and Blinn student co-enrolled (including TEAM or TEAB). How do I log in to purchase a RELLIS permit? Log into your account. Use the option in the top left section using your Texas A&M University NetID login. I am a RELLIS student (not Texas A&M or Blinn). How do I log in to purchase a RELLIS permit? Log in at transport.tamu.edu/account. Use the option located on the bottom right side of the screen to "Request a Login ID for Nonaffiliates". Complete the information and your login credentials will be emailed to you. You can then log in on the right side of the page under "Visitors, Contractors, Vendors, SSC Employees and all others" section and purchase the "RELLIS Contracted" permit. I have a disabled placard. How do I utilize the disabled spaces on the RELLIS campus? Display your disabled placard on the vehicle registered when you paid by the hour to park or purchased your annual permit. Parking General Questions Is my current Texas A&M permit valid at RELLIS? Customers with Texas A&M permits including daily, weekly and monthly permits who have registered their license plate may park in all areas at RELLIS, except BE, TLB and FL. Night permits are only valid from 5pm–6am. It will be the customer's responsibility to ensure their license plate has been added/registered to their Texas A&M permit. Adding a vehicle to your permit Is my current Blinn permit valid at RELLIS? No, RELLIS is a separate campus within the Texas A&M System. Customers needing to park at RELLIS should use the Parkmobile app (Zone 7743) or pay stations to pay by the hour or go online to purchase an annual permit. When will RELLIS permits for the next academic year be available for purchase? Permits for the next academic year are sold online only and go on sale each year on August 1. What is the cost of the RELLIS permit? Pricing for RELLIS permits can be found on our Permit & Rate Information page. Are RELLIS permits valid in the “any valid permit” areas on the Texas A&M Campus? No, RELLIS permits are not valid on the Texas A&M campus. Do RELLIS permits have night or weekend privileges on the Texas A&M campus? No, RELLIS permits are not valid on the Texas A&M campus. Is there a RELLIS night and weekend permit and what is the cost? For students attending classes after 5pm or on weekends there is a RELLIS night/weekend permit valid from 5pm - 6am and all day on weekends. Pricing for permits can be found on our Permit & Rate Information page. Is there motorcycle parking at RELLIS? Yes, there is motorcycle parking at RELLIS. Do I need a permit to park a motorcycle at the RELLIS campus and what is the cost? Yes, permit or hourly payment is required to park a motorcycle at RELLIS. Motorcycle permits are available for sale online. Blinn motorcycle permits are not valid at RELLIS. Pricing for motorcycle permits can be found on our Permit & Rate Information page. Is my RELLIS motorcycle permit valid on the Texas A&M campus? No, your RELLIS motorcycle permit is not valid on the Texas A&M campus Is my virtual RELLIS permit valid for event parking at Texas A&M? No, your RELLIS permit is not valid for events held on the Texas A&M Campus. We have a university vehicle at the RELLIS campus. Will we need to purchase a permit for our university vehicle? Departments or agencies with university vehicles and/or state-owned vehicles parked in ungated surface lots will incur a monthly charge of $12 added to the vehicle rental billing from Fleet for parking, street and gate access, and maintenance. University vehicles and/or state-owned vehicles parked in gated facilities or reserved spaces, which require the purchase of an annual permit, will have the price of the permit reduced by $144 to adjust for the $12/month charge. Are there electric vehicle charging stations on the RELLIS campus? The RELLIS campus has 2 ChargePoint electric vehicle charging stations which are located in Parking Lot 1000. ChargePoint network charging stations require a membership with the respective network to activate the charger. This membership and associated usage fees are independent of the Texas A&M University System RELLIS and Transportation Services and are in addition for fees charged for parking (visitor and contract). To sign up for a charging station network please visit chargepoint.com. *** Level 2 chargers have SAE J1772 connectors for 240V charging. This connector is found on most mainstream EVs including, but not limited to the Nissan Leaf, Chevy Volt, Plug-in Prius, and Tesla Model S. Due to the vehicle charge port location, the Tesla Model S requires a station with a 25’ cord For information about charging stations on the Texas A&M campus, visit our electric vehicles page. Faculty/Staff I am an employee at the RELLIS campus. What type of permit should I purchase, and what is the price? If you are an employee at the RELLIS Campus, purchase the virtual “RELLIS” permit. This permit is valid anywhere on the RELLIS campus, except at the TEEX Law Enforcement Agency (bldg 7751) and behind the secure gate on Flightline Road. Enter your license plate number at the time of purchase. Pricing for RELLIS permits can be found on our Permit & Rate Information page. I am a Texas A&M employee and also have a need to park at the RELLIS campus. What type of permit should I purchase and what is the price? Customers with Texas A&M permits who have registered their license plates may park in all areas at RELLIS, except BE, TLB and FL). Night permits are only valid from 5pm–6am. It will be the customer's responsibility to ensure their license plate has been added/registered to their Texas A&M permit. I work at the RELLIS campus most of the time and have an occasional need to travel to the Texas A&M Campus. Will I need to purchase a permit? Departments can purchase a Texas A&M Campus permit that can be checked out by employees on an as-needed basis to display when they visit the Texas A&M Campus. Employees that travel to the Texas A&M Campus more often can request and purchase their own Texas A&M Campus permit. Visitors How do visitors park at the RELLIS campus? Pay by the hour visitor parking is available on the RELLIS Campus. Visitor parking may be paid via the Parkmobile app or at the pay stations in the lot using Zone 7743. Sign up for Parkmobile with your email, license plate and payment method. Once registered you may begin to use Parkmobile immediately to pay by the hour. Department Guests, Group Event and Conference Parking Can departments pay online for guest parking? Yes, departments may choose to set up a ParkMobile account to pay for guest parking online. Guest license plate information will be required to begin the parking session. Set up department ParkMobile account What are the procedures for coordinating conference/meeting parking? Guests should contact their department or event sponsor for parking information. The Transportation Services Special Event unit provides scheduling for parking, traffic devices and officer support for all your special event, conference and department guest needs. Requests are fulfilled based upon availability. Please complete the Special Event Parking Request Form to request services for your event. Transportation Services will then contact you with parking options and availability. For questions, please contact our Visitor Conference Coordinator at 979.862.2551. More on conference/meeting parking Enforcement What if I enter my license plate incorrectly? If you enter your license plate incorrectly, you will be cited. You can file an appeal and include your correct plate number. To correct a license plate number, log into your account and update your information. Adding a vehicle to your permit What if I have multiple cars, or what if I switch cars? Faculty/staff may have 3 license plates linked to one valid permit. Only one of these vehicles can be parked on campus at any given time. Students may have 1 license plates linked to one valid permit. More on parking permit registration What if I have a temporary tag or dealer tags on my vehicle? Enter the tag number during the purchase process just as if it was a regular license plate. Once you receive your permanent plate, you should add it to your permit. What if I only have one license plate on my car? Texas law requires both front and back plates be displayed on your vehicle. If you have only one plate, it must be facing the drive aisle. No anti-camera coverings can be used on the plate facing the drive aisle. More Parking Resources Additional parking FAQs Construction info & updates If you have questions, feel free to call Transportation Services at 979-862-7275 or email parking@tamu.edu. Transportation Services Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03