Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home All Services Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park & Ride (Rockland County) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park & Ride (Rockland County) Columbia faculty and staff can park at Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory campus in Palisades, NY for a nominal fee and ride the free Lamont-Doherty Shuttle to and from campus. Parking at Lamont: All parking spaces for non-Lamont employees are currently filled. Please register below to join the waiting list. A limited number of parking spaces at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory are allocated for full-time Columbia faculty and staff who work at the Morningside or Manhattanville campuses. A parking fee of $175 per month will be deducted from your paycheck on a pre-tax basis. You may cancel at any time by contacting the Environmental Stewardship office at [email protected] As this commute option was developed as part of Columbia’s Sustainability Plan, priority is given to those who have a driving commute and are unable to use transit. Due to the limited number of available parking spaces, eligibility is currently limited to Columbia faculty and staff who work at the Morningside or Manhattanville campuses. Unfortunately, all students, as well as faculty and staff at the Medical Center and Columbia affiliate institutions, are not eligible at this time. We appreciate your understanding as we look to create more sustainable commute options to and from our campuses. Don’t need parking, and can get the Lamont another way? Please note: You don’t have to purchase parking to take the Lamont Shuttle. You can carpool, get dropped off, bike, or walk to take the shuttle, which is free to all University affiliates. If you plan on being dropped off at the shuttle stop within the Lamont campus, please email your request to be added to the Shuttle Drop Off List held at the gatehouse detailing: your UNI, CU affiliation, the vehicle's make, model, license plate info, who will be dropping you off, and how long you anticipate to have this commute arrangement to [email protected] If you wish to be dropped off by your ride at Lamont’s front gate and walk into campus to catch the shuttle, no prior notification is needed. For safety reasons, the Lamont shuttle will not stop at the gate to pick up or drop off passengers. This commute option was developed based on feedback we received from Columbia affiliates and the goals outlined in Columbia’s Sustainability Plan. We hope this new service provides members of the Columbia community a more sustainable, stress-free, affordable commuter option. Interested in riding the shuttle and/or parking at Lamont? Register for parking. We will contact you when we reach your name on the waitlist. Thank you for helping us create a more Sustainable Columbia. Lamont Shuttle Schedule & Map of Stops Visit the current Lamont Shuttle Schedule to view schedule and bus stop locations and pick-up times. Questions? Contact Columbia’s Environmental Stewardship office at [email protected]. Contact Us Have questions about our shuttles, schedules, car service, or other services? Email or call us and we'll be happy to help. (212) 854-3382 [email protected] Who's Getting You There Columbia Transportation How You're Getting There By Columbia Shuttle Incentives All Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close