Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to About Us University Non-Emergency Closure Service Information IN CASE OF EMERGENCY visit emergency.tamu.edu The following has been posted to serve as a guide to our customers during expected and unexpected University closure. Parking Expected Closure: Break Parking Unexpected Closure: Weekend regulations will apply during these periods. Follow @aggieparking for updates. Appeals If you are scheduled for an in-person citation appeal at a time when the University is unexpectedly closed, you will be contacted by email to invite you to reschedule the appeal. Transit Transit does not provide service when the University is closed. In the event the University opening is delayed due to inclement weather, Transit will begin running service beginning one hour prior to opening time. Follow @aggiespiritbus for updates. RV Reservations RV reservations are still required; In the event of an emergency at one of the parks, call 979-845-2345. Charter In the event the University is closed due to inclement weather, all charters will be canceled. If the university closes for early dismissal for a holiday (not previously scheduled), all contracted charter service will be provided. Special Events If the event is not canceled., the original parking arrangements will stand. Refunds or returns will be handled on a case-by-case basis. University Holidays Winter Weather Driving Safety Tips Know your vehicle and how it operates. Not all cars respond the same to slippery roads. Knowing how to handle your vehicle and how it responds in various weather conditions is important. Always maintain a good distance from vehicles in front of you. The most important thing to remember when driving on slick roads is that you must travel, steer and brake more slowly than usual. The distance needed to stop under slick conditions is much greater than you would need to brake under normal driving circumstances. Leave yourself plenty of room to stop. Recognize Danger Zones: Intersections -- Slow down before reaching an intersection. Scan all directions for cars and pedestrians. Curves -- Reduce speed before entering a curve. Bridges - Ice forms on bridges and freeways so reduce speed and use precaution. Never brake while driving on ice. If you are approaching a patch of ice, brake during your approach. Applying pressure to your brakes while on ice will only throw you into a skid. Finally, always buckle up and use extra caution when driving in slick or icy conditions. Sources: American Automobile Association, Texas Department of Transportation, FEM About Us Mission & Vision History of Transportation Services Alternative Permit Pricing Options and History Department FAQs Forums Associations Presentations Surveys News Articles Campus Master Plan Employment Advertising Gameday RV Committee Transportation Services Advisory Committee (TSAC) Bicycle Committee Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) — Customer Assistance 979.845.9700 — Administration Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03