Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Parking Locations and Rates Locations and Rates The rates listed below are monthly, except as noted otherwise, and are effective from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. All rates are inclusive of sales tax. Please note that for semester rate periods, the fall semester is from September to December (4 months), the spring semester is from January to May (5 months), and the summer semester is from June to August (3 months). Expand all Collapse all 24/7 Parking Facilities Description 560 Riverside Drive Garage RSD between W. 125th St. & Tiemann Place Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation 24 hours/day 7 days/week Rates $276.65 Description Riverside Church Garage Claremont Ave. & W. 120th St. (Rapid Park rate with no mark-up - spaces leased by CU) Hours of Operation 6 a.m. to midnight, Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m. to midnight, Sat.-Sun. Rates $472.98 Description Arbor Garage - Henry Hudson Parkway - Bronx, NY Hours of Operation 24 hours/day 7 days/week Rates $191.28 Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption Parkers who are Manhattan residents may be eligible for an exemption from the 8% Borough of Manhattan tax. Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption applications (both an online version and a mail-in form) are available from the NYC Department of Finance. Upon approval, a Parking Tax Exemption Certificate will be mailed to you by the Department of Finance. Please send a copy of the certificate to the Parking Office by mail, email, or fax (see Contact Us page). As per Department of Finance policy, you must apply for renewals - you should receive a reminder notice from the DOF, but please note that the Parking Office cannot apply on your behalf and is required to collect the additional tax if a renewal certificate is not submitted to the Parking Office. Please see the Manhattan Resident Parking Tax Exemption Brochure for more details. There is no exemption available for the remaining tax. Commuter Parking Facilities Description International Affairs Building Garage/ 420 W. 118th St. between Amsterdam Ave. & Morningside Dr. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon. - Fri. No overnight parking Rates $242.03 Description Engineering Terrace Garage/ Amsterdam Ave. & W. 119th St. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri. 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays No overnight parking Rates $242.03 Description 635 West 131st Street Garage (MTP rate with no mark-up - spaces leased by CU) Hours of Operation 6 a.m. to midnight 7 days/week Rates $310.91 Daily & Seminar Parking Facilities Description International Affairs Building Garage/ 420 W. 118th St. between Amsterdam Ave. & Morningside Dr. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation Weekday evenings, Fridays, and weekends, subject to availability Rate $22 per vehicle Description Engineering Terrace Garage/ Amsterdam Ave. & W. 119th St. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation Weekday evenings, Fridays, and weekends, subject to availability Rate $22 per vehicle The $22 per vehicle rate applies for the first 30 vehicles parked for a seminar. After 30 vehicles, special event parking rates will apply. Part-Time Commuter/Adjunct Faculty Parking Facilities Description 3 days/week International Affairs Building (IAB) Garage/ 420 W. 118th St. between Amsterdam Ave. & Morningside Dr. & Engineering Terrace Garage (ETG)/ Amsterdam Ave. & W. 119th St. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $181.13 Description 2 days/week IAB & Engineering Terrace Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $132.11 Description 1 day/week IAB & Engineering Terrace Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $85.53 The rates above are monthly; for full semester cost, multiply by 4 for Fall (September to December), 5 for Spring (January to May), and 3 for Summer (June to August). Special Event Parking Facilities Description International Affairs Building Garage/ 420 W. 118th St. between Amsterdam Ave. & Morningside Dr. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation Weekday evenings, Fridays, and weekends, subject to availability Rate $135.00 per hour (4 hour minimum) Description Engineering Terrace Garage/ Amsterdam Ave. & W. 119th St. Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation Weekday evenings, Fridays, and weekends, subject to availability Rate $135.00 per hour (4 hour minimum) Student Parking Facilities (Evenings/Saturdays Only) Please note that for semester rate periods, the fall semester is from September to December, the spring semester is from January to May, and the summer semester is from June to August. All rates are inclusive of sales tax and $50 Refundable Tag Deposit. Description Full-Time Evening & Saturday International Affairs Building (IAB) Garage/ 420 W. 118th St. between Amsterdam Ave. & Morningside Dr., Monday through Friday; Engineering Terrace Garage (ETG)/ Amsterdam Ave. & W. 119th St. on Saturday Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $795.30 per semester Description 4 days/week IAB garage Monday through Friday; Engineering Terrace on Saturday Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $646.24 per semester Description 3 days/week IAB garage Monday through Friday; Engineering Terrace on Saturday Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $497.18 per semester Description 2 days/week IAB garage Monday through Friday; Engineering Terrace on Saturday Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $348.12 per semester Description 1 day/week IAB garage Monday through Friday; Engineering Terrace on Saturday Electric vehicle charging is available at no extra cost. Hours of Operation IAB: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon.-Fri. No overnight parking ETG: 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mon. - Fri.; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sat. & some Holidays. No overnight parking Rates $199.06 per semester Parking at Columbia Parking Options Current Parkers Rules and Procedures Parking Policy Daily Parking Departmental Authorization Form Parking Alternatives Contact Columbia Parking Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close