Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Transportation Services Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Sustainable Transportation Sustainable Transportation Strategy Transit Vanpool Zipcar Skateboarding Biking Electric Vehicle Parking Biking Bike Lockers Bike Safety Campus Bike Map Bike Theft Prevention ZAP Oregon State Poker Ride Beaver Bus Beaver Bus Rental Beaver Bus Route Changes Beaver Bus Route Maps Beaver Bus Schedules Riding the Bus Maps Parking Parking Rates Permit Types Citations and Appeals Events Department Permit Purchases Waitlists, Exchanges and Refunds Motor Pool About Motor Pool Make Reservation Driver Authorization Form How to Rent Rates Accidents and Assistance Van Safety Vehicles Maintenance & Repairs Contact Policies New to OSU Visitors Prospective Students ADA Parking New Employee Transportation Guide New Student Transportation Guide About Us Annual Reports Policies Brochures OSU Transportation Committee About Parking Directory Contact Us Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Sustainable Transportation Sustainable Transportation Strategy Transit Vanpool Zipcar Skateboarding Biking Electric Vehicle Parking Biking Bike Lockers Bike Safety Campus Bike Map Bike Theft Prevention ZAP Oregon State Poker Ride Beaver Bus Beaver Bus Rental Beaver Bus Route Changes Beaver Bus Route Maps Beaver Bus Schedules Riding the Bus Maps Parking Parking Rates Permit Types Citations and Appeals Events Department Permit Purchases Waitlists, Exchanges and Refunds Motor Pool About Motor Pool Make Reservation Driver Authorization Form How to Rent Rates Accidents and Assistance Van Safety Vehicles Maintenance & Repairs Contact Policies New to OSU Visitors Prospective Students ADA Parking New Employee Transportation Guide New Student Transportation Guide About Us Annual Reports Policies Brochures OSU Transportation Committee About Parking Directory Contact Us Welcome to OSU Transportation Services Transportation Services supports the University’s mission by providing safe, sustainable, customer-focused, and fiscally-sound transportation programs and services. Helping you get OUT THERE. Buy a Parking Permit Pay a Parking Citation Track the Beaver Bus Reserve a Motor Pool Vehicle Rent a Bike Locker Contact Us Events/Localist Need to add a calendar of events for your organization or group? Localist is the tool for you. Click the above link to go to the OSU calendar system and begin making events or create widgets to display upcoming events here on your site! For more information, check out the following links. How to add a localist widget to your site How to create the best events Go to Localist OSU Drupal 7 WebTech Manual This page is a great place of reference when asking yourself 'How do I ....?' While there is always someone available at Open Lab to help answer your questions, you should probably check out and bookmark this page as it'll help you chug through some of the basics of Drupal site-building. Go to OSU Drupal 7 WebTech Manual Open Lab Got a question? Something not looking right on your site? Can't figure out how to change the flux capacitor in your 1982 DeLorean? We are here to help! Check out our Open Lab page and come pay us a visit. Walk-ins are always welcome. Our Open Lab classroom is typically outfitted with computers, but if you've got a laptop feel free to bring it. Learn about Open Lab New Student Transportation Guide New to OSU? Check out what options are available for students living on and off campus on our New Student Transportation Guide. Employee Transportation Guide Learn what transportation options are available for employees who work on the Corvallis campus. Choose your commute on the Employee Transportation Guide. We Have Moved! Visit our new main office location in the Western Building (former Foundation Building). FACEBOOK INSTAGRAM Contact Info OSU Transportation Services Western Building 850 SW 35th Street Corvallis, OR 97333 541-737-2583 Main Office Hours: In Person: 7:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., Monday - Friday Phone or Email: 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday - Friday Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Motor Pool 3200 SW Campus Way Corvallis, OR 97331 Motor Pool Office Hours: 7 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday - Friday Have Motor Pool questions?