Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Parking Parking Rules & Regulations Transportation Services is responsible for managing all parking, traffic and transportation-related activities on campus. The following rules and regulations were established by the university as a standard for the parking programs and apply to all vehicles on campus and are in effect at all times. Transportation Services may exercise discretion to deal with special circumstances not covered by these regulations. Both Transportation Services and the University Police Department have jurisdiction to enforce or impound any vehicle in violation of the regulations. The owner of the vehicle will be required to pay the cost of release, relocation and/or storing the vehicle. The Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts requires all state agencies and institutions of higher education to report entities with a debt to the state. A State Hold (alert) to the State of Texas Comptroller’s Office will be issued for customers with an outstanding citation balance older than 120 days until the unpaid balance and other collection fees are paid in full. Transportation Services uses a third-party collection agency to help collect unpaid parking citation balances. Citations left unpaid for longer than 60 days will be turned over to the collection agency. Regulations: All vehicles are required to have a valid Texas A&M University parking permit when parked on university property. Virtual permits – Your vehicle license plate IS your permit. Physical permits – Your permit must be properly displayed Only one linked license plate per permit may be parked on campus at any given time. Texas A&M requires registering the license plate number of the vehicle being parked on campus. License plate numbers entered incorrectly may result in citation, booting or towing. Permits are issued to a specific individual. Citations issued to the permit are the owner's responsibility. Permits are valid only if purchased from Transportation Services. Permits may not be resold or transferred between individuals. In the absence of a sign at the entrance to a lot, refer to the parking map to determine parking regulations for that lot. Any modifications to a lot during the academic year will be posted on signs at the entrance to the lot and the change will be effective immediately. When a parking sign conflicts with the parking map or information on this website, the sign will always supersede. Any area not specifically designated for parking is considered a no parking zone and vehicles will be cited appropriately. All vehicles must be parked within the marked boundaries of one parking space or stall. No privately owned trailers are permitted on campus. Vehicles parked parallel must be parked with the flow of traffic and not more than 18 inches from the curb. Vehicles must be parked with a license plate facing the drive lane. License plates not mounted to the bumper of the vehicle are not able to be read by license plate reader as it drives by and will result in a citation. Vehicles parked in garages or in angled parking on one-way streets must be parked head-in. Permit holders should be aware at certain times their space may not be reserved. These times include, but are not limited to, days when special events bring large numbers of visitors to campus such as home football games, graduation, move-in/move-out, Family Weekend, as well as times when Transportation Services parking staff is not on duty. There is no proration for the permit for these exceptions. Transportation Services reserves the right to remove at the owner's expense any public nuisance vehicle or one that is not parked in accordance with the regulations contained in this website. Designated accessible parking spaces are for the exclusive use of vehicles displaying county-issued accessible hangtags or disabled license plates AND a valid Texas A&M University parking permit. The penalties for possessing an altered or forged permit, or a permit filed as lost, stolen or invalidated are: Immediate tow and impound of vehicle possessing the forged/altered/invalidated/lost/stolen item with relocation and storage fees due to tow company Citation with $160 fine for possessing a forged/altered/invalidated/lost/stolen item Theft of service fee of $40 per month: Invalidated/lost/stolen permit – beginning the month the item was reported Altered or forged permits are charged back to the beginning of the permit year Confiscation of forged/altered/invalidated/lost/stolen item with no refund Revocation of Texas A&M University parking privileges Referral to Student Conflict Resolution Services or Department Head Individuals found in possession of permits filed as lost, stolen or invalidated are liable for all penalties shown above regardless if the status of the permit was known. Faculty, staff and students are responsible for any citations that are issued to family members. Should a relative of Texas A&M University faculty, staff or students receive parking citations, Transportation Services has the authority to bill the citations to the university's affiliate. Vehicles of customers with three or more unpaid citations or fines exceeding $160.00 or any citation balance due older than 90 days may be booted and/or towed and impounded at the owner's expense until the account is paid in full. Effective 9/1/16: Habitual Violators: Fines are increased by half for customers with more than four (4) citations in an academic year (9/1–8/31). Chronic Violators: Fines are doubled for customers with more than ten (10) citation in an academic year (9/1–8/31). Customers who present a check or online payment which is returned due to non-payment will be assessed a $30 returned check fee. Bicycles must be parked in the racks provided. Motorcycles, mopeds, and scooters must be parked in designated motorcycle parking areas and must not be parked in the parking garages or in any parking spaces striped or marked for automobiles or bicycles. University Bicycle Regulations Except on the golf course, privately-owned golf carts, Cushman or other slow moving vehicles are not permitted on campus. More Parking Resources Restricted Spaces Garages Night & Weekend Break & Summer Vendor Retiree Permit/Transponder Information & Placement Parking My Account Find My DPR Visitor Info Disabled Retirees Vendors RV Sports Camps Department/Group Parking Regulations Break & Summer Parking Night & Weekend Parking Parking Maps Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03