Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Sustainable Transportation / Bicycles Bicycle Services Transportation Services offers a comprehensive bicycle program designed to meet the varied needs of students, staff and faculty at Texas A&M. See below for the services available to our campus community or feel free to email us at bikes@tamu.edu and we will be happy to assist you! Find out where bike lanes, racks and maintenance stations are located throughout campus to serve your biking needs. Bike Map Bike Share Bike share offers all of the benefits of biking without the hassles of maintenance and storage. With bike share you can leave your bike at home and enjoy the ride! Students, Faculty, and Staff can unlock and ride one of hundreds of bikes located throughout campus. When you are done with your ride, park it in any bike rack on campus. It’s that simple! Veo COVID-19 update Bike share guide details on bike share Bike Lease Leasing a bicycle through our Sustainable Transportation office will allow you to save time and money and avoid the hassle of bike ownership. The ST office offers durable bikes for your transportation needs in and around the Bryan-College Station community. All registered students are able to lease bicycles on a semester long basis. Purchase a semester lease through My Account using the "Purchase Permits" link. Once you have purchased your permit online simply email the Sustainable Transportation office at bikes@tamu.edu and set up an appointment to pick up your bicycle. On the day of your appointment all you will need is an electronic or printed copy of your receipt. More on bike lease details on bike lease Bike Registration Texas A&M Transportation Services requires all bicycles on campus to be registered and show proof of registration by displaying a permit to avoid enforcement action. Mandatory bike registration includes a required $10 dollar fee applied to each bike registered. Register your bicycle online at My Account: Help identify your bike if lost or stolen Get bike program news and updates Be a part of a growing bike program at Texas A&M More on registration details on bike registration Wheelers at The HUB Wheelers is a one-stop-shop where you can speak face-to-face with our bicycle specialists and get assistance with all things bicycle-related. Wheelers is located The HUB, across from The Commons. Our bike specialists can help you with: Free bike check ups – an experienced bicycle mechanic will diagnose your bicycle, let you know what needs to fixed and how to get it done Free bicycle engravings – get your bicycle engraved with your name and identification information Bicycle registration information – get help finding your registration info on your bike and how to register it Sustainable Transportation information – your chance to ask the Sustainable Transportation staff your questions and learn about all our services, from bike lease to car share In an effort to stay in line with the current campuswide initiatives, we are offering Wheelers services by appointment only during this time. Please contact our office at bikes@tamu.edu to schedule a time and we will be happy to assist you. details on Wheelers Borrow a Bike Borrow a Bike is a free program, and a basic form of bike share, for those that need the use of a bike for a short period of time. If you borrow a bike today, it is due back by 10:00 a.m. the next morning. If you borrow a bike on Friday, it's not due until the following Monday! Customers who do not return their bike by 10:00 a.m. will be charged a $5 late fee. Customers may borrow a bike 5 times per semester. The Borrow a Bike program is a basic form of bike share. The program is free to anyone employed by or currently enrolled at Texas A&M University. We ask the Aggie community members that use the program to be conscious about bringing back the bike when you are finished using it so it is available to another Aggie that may need a bike. Bike pickups and dropoffs are by appointment only and will take place at The HUB, across from the Commons. To schedule a pickup time, call or text 979.393.8604 Monday–Friday, 8am–5pm. details on Borrow a Bike FIXIT Stops FIXIT stops provide you the tools you need to repair your bike, air your tires and be on your way. Each station is equipped with the following tools: Crescent wrench Set of metric hex wrenches Tire levers Flat head screw driver Philips head screw driver 15mm open mouth wrench T-25 torque wrench Bicycle stand Bicycle pump which accommodates both Presta and Schrader valves We have 10 FIXIT stops which can be found at the following locations throughout campus: White Creek Apartments Wehner WCG South Side MSC North Side MSC The Commons Mechanical Engineering bldg. Sbisa Underground Gardens Apartments FIXIT Stops & Bicycle Parking Bicycle Repair Instructions details on FIXIT stops Summer Bicycle Storage Summer bicycle storage allows you to securely store your bike in an indoor facility through the summer. Summer bike storage can be purchased through My Account using the “Purchase Permits” link. Select “Summer Bike Storage” and then print the receipt. Email bikes@tamu.edu to make an appointment to bring your bike to the storage facility. Bring your bike, lock, and receipt to the Sustainable Transportation Office located in the Transportation Services Motor Pool at the time of your appointment. There is parking in Lot 76 next to the Fleet building that can be used for the drop off if needed. Don’t forget your lock; you will lock your bike inside the storage facility. REMINDER: Bike Racks are for bikes currently in use ONLY! Others will be removed! If you won't be here for the summer and don't plan to use our Summer Bike Storage, please take your bike home. details on summer bike storage Bike Sales & Auctions The university Surplus Property Office offers opportunities to purchase a used bicycle for cut-rate prices through auctions and their annual bike sale. Online Bicycle Auctions Throughout the year, the university sells collected bicycles (see Bicycle Regulations) via online public auction. For more information about the auctions, please contact the Surplus Property Office. REMINDER: Bike Racks are for bikes currently in use ONLY! Others will be removed! Annual Bike Sale The annual bike sale is held at the Surplus Property Office on Agronomy Road. All bikes are sold as-is for $30. Map details on bike sales Frequently Asked Questions Where are there bike lanes on campus? You can find information about bike lanes on campus by referencing the map below. Bike Lane Locations What side of the street do I ride on? When riding a bicycle in the road you are considered a vehicle. Always ride on the right side of the road while on campus. Where do I park my bike during the day? We have thousands of bike racks across campus. See below for a map that can help find the closest one to you. Bike Rack Locations Are there locations on campus where I can park my bike overnight? Nearly all the racks on campus are 24hr parking. That said, we do have a few no overnight racks that are labeled with large white lettering across the top-tube which reads “No bike parking from 11:00pm to 6:00am.” If there is no sign or writing on a rack then it is okay to use for overnight parking. It’s important to keep in mind though that racks on campus are for bicycles currently in use only. All abandoned bicycle will be removed. Do I need to lock my bike? You should always lock your bike when not using it on campus. We highly recommend using a hardened steel U-lock. What do I do if I cannot find my bike? When bikes are not secured to a bike rack, we will move them to the next available bike rack in that area. If you cannot find your bike on any bike rack, please email us at bikes@tamu.edu so that we may check the bike impound. In the event that we do not have your bike, you may contact University Police Department at 979.845.2345. How do I get my bike back if it is impounded? Do I have to pay a fee to get it back? Simply email the Sustainable Transportation office at bikes@tamu.edu and schedule an appointment to visit the impound. There is no charge associated with retrieving a bicycle from the impound. However, if your bike is impounded because it has not been registered, you will need to register your bike before it can be released. This can be done on your phone the day of your scheduled appointment. Do I need to register my bike? Texas A&M Transportation Services requires all bicycles on campus to be registered and show proof of registration by displaying a permit to avoid enforcement action. Mandatory bike registration includes a required $10 dollar fee applied to each bike registered. More on registration Where do I register my bike? Log in to My Account to register your bike. What information do I need before I register my bike? Bike make/brand Color Serial Number You may also upload two pictures (max size 1MB each) Pictures can be added at any time, by logging into My Account We recommend uploading photos that will help in identifying your bike, such as a full image of the bike, scan of your purchase receipt, or picture of your serial number plate. Where can I find more information about bike laws? You can find more information about bike laws here. Where can I get a bike if I don’t have one? If you just want to use a bicycle for the day the university offers a Borrow-A-Bike program. Through this program students can borrow a bicycle free of charge up to 24hr. If you need a bicycle for an extended period of time the university also offers a bike lease program. For $50 a semester the student receives a bicycle, u-lock, and cable. What do I do if I sell my bike? If you sell your bike, please remove the bike permit before transferring ownership and return it to Transportation Services in Polo Rd. Building, Suite 350 or mail to 1250 TAMU. If you get a new bike, log into My Account to register it. My bike is broken. Will the university fix it? No, but you can take it to The Hub (do-it-yourself repair facility) located at the Hub across the street from the Commons. You can also bring your bike to Wheelers for a check-up from an experienced bike mechanic, who will show you how to fix your bike or refer you to an off-campus repair shop if necessary. Where can I get more information about bikes? All information regarding bicycles on campus can also be found on this webpage. You can also contact Sustainable Transportation by sending them an email at bikes@tamu.edu. Parking Menu Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Rideshare Bike Registration Bike Regulations State Bicycle Laws Theft & Safety Borrow a Bike Summer Bike Storage Bike Auctions Bike Maintenance Bicycle FAQs Bicycle Master Plan Bike Lanes, Racks & Maintenance Stations City Bike Lanes Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 bikes@tamu.edu Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03