Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute & Travel Options Rideshare Car and Van Pools Car and Van Pools Want to car pool with a partner or looking for a group to share costs? Here are some resources to help with your commute. Expand all Collapse all Carpool Matching List your ride or find a carpool partner by joining the free 511 NY Rideshare system. You will instantly see contact information for people who are looking to share rides from your neighborhood. The 511 NY Rideshare service is intended for anyone who lives or works in New York State – you don’t have to be a New York State resident to use it. 511 NY Rideshare is a service of the New York State Department of Transportation. Carpools with three or more Manhattanville employees can qualify for the Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount. This particular carpooling database is merely a suggestion and it is not endorsed by Columbia University. Vanpool to Columbia A vanpool is typically a group of five to 15 people who share their commute and split the associated costs. Vanpools are a cost-effective, environmentally friendly, and relaxing alternative to a drive-alone commute. You can be a casual rider and pay per use, or a committed rider paying a monthly fee. The vanpooling group arranges the schedule, parking, and pick-up locations. Vanpools are managed and operated by the riders themselves, but vans are usually leased from third party operators. Below are some vanpool organizations with existing services that operate to Columbia. Vanpools with three or more Manhattanville employees can qualify for the Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount. Current Vanpools to Columbia This vanpool service is not currently operation due to the pandemic Tenafly, New Jersey to Columbia vanpool service: Call: (206) 954-2211 Email: [email protected] Read the story about Columbia’s Tenafly vanpool. Start a Vanpool or Join Existing Vanpool Enterprise Rideshare offers services for commuters to find an existing vanpool or start a new one: Website: www.enterpriserideshare.com EZ Ride is a New Jersey-based ride share organization that assists commuters in finding an existing vanpool, or helps them start a new one: Website: http://ezride.org Call: (201) 939-4242 Email: [email protected] 511 NY Rideshare offers vanpool formation assistance and allows you to search for existing vanpools. You can also submit your information as an individual wanting to be matched with a vanpool. Visit the 511 NY Rideshare website for more information: Website: https://511nyrideshare.org/web/511ny-rideshare-downstate/vanpool While Columbia has no affiliation with any of these companies, Columbia Transportation can provide the names of some organizations who specialize in vanpool and travel arrangements. Please keep in mind that Columbia affiliates have the right to review various vanpool vendors and select the vendor of their choice. The above vanpool vendors serve as suggestions and are not endorsed by the University. Contact Us Have questions about our shuttles, schedules, car service, or other services? Email or call us and we'll be happy to help. (212) 854-3382 [email protected] Related Topics Register as a Smart Commuter Sustainable Commuters at Columbia Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close