Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home All Services Car Service Car Service Columbia Transportation is contracted with Luxury Worldwide Transportation (LWT) to provide car service to Columbia personnel for department-approved purposes. Department-Sponsored Transportation Columbia Transportation is contracted with Luxury Worldwide Transportation (LWT) to provide car service to Columbia personnel for department-approved purposes. Paper vouchers or VIP cards can be requested with a valid chart string and requires DAF approval. Please note that this service should only be used for transportation meeting department approved criteria. Requesting these services through Columbia Transportation ensures that all students, staff and faculty are covered under Columbia’s insurance agreements and standards. Requesters do not have to create purchase orders as Transportation processes all invoices and bills customers monthly via ITF. The charges will appear on account 65212 for consolidated ChartStrings and on account 65298 for non-consolidated ChartStrings. All car services are billed electronically. There is no need for cash transactions at the time of service, as any additional services not previously quoted will be billed electronically. In addition, tips are not required and are left to the discretion of the department. Voucher Request Form A voucher is required to use car service. This enables departments, faculty and schools to control usage. LWT will not accept requests without a predetermined voucher number. It is the responsibility of riders to turn in receipts to their Department Financial Administrator for departmental reconciliation. Request vouchers. VIP Card Request Form A VIP card can be requested for frequent users. The VIP card eliminates the need to carry vouchers and account numbers can be personalized for ease of use. VIP cards must have departmental DAF approval, as these will be tied to a valid chart string for billing purposes. It is the responsibility of riders to turn in receipts to their Department Financial Administrator for departmental reconciliation. Request a VIP card. Luxury Worldwide Transportation (LWT) App Available for both iOS and Android devices, the LWT app allows you to quickly and easily reserve a car using your mobile device. Students wanting to receive the discounted rate (described below) will need to reference account 1754CC when making reservations. Download LWT App for iOS Download LWT App for Android Non-Sponsored Transportation Non-Columbia-sponsored services are abundant in New York City. A car can be booked in advance through one of New York City's many car service companies. Additionally, taxis supervised by the Taxi and Limousine Commission are easily flaggable from most city streets at any time of day or night. Student Transportation Columbia University students are eligible to use Luxury car service at a discounted rate. Reference account 1754CC when making a reservation. Contact Us Have questions about our shuttles, schedules, car service, or other services? Email or call us and we'll be happy to help. (212) 854-3382 [email protected] Who's Getting You There Columbia Transportation I'm Taking Myself Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close