Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Parking Visitor Parking Visitor parking is available in garage and surface parking areas across campus. Use the Visitor Parking Map to find the parking location closest to your destination (Visitor Parking lots/garages highlighted in blue). Use the Search box in the top right-hand corner to locate buildings, offices, dining facilities and other points of interest. Hourly Visitor Parking Hourly Visitor Parking Rates Duration 6am - 5:59pm 6pm - 5:59am Entry - 1 hr $3 $1.50 1 hr - 2 hrs $5 $2.50 2 hrs - 3 hrs $7 $3.50 3 hrs - 4 hrs $9 $4.50 Each additional 1 hour $1 $0.50 Max daily rate: $15 (per entry) Lost ticket fee: $40 Citation for inability to pay: $40 Vehicles in unpaid spaces will be cited. Customers have 15 minutes to exit garage facilities after payment is rendered. Additional payment is required after 15 minutes. This does not apply to Northside Garage. Real-Time Garage Availability Garage Spaces CCG Central Campus Garage 248 PRG Polo Road Garage 325 SBG Stallings Blvd Garage 276 UCG University Center Garage 301 WCG West Campus Garage 314 Hourly Motorcycle Parking Hourly motorcycle visitor parking is available in any motorcycle space on campus using pay by phone and your license plate number. Create an account online. More on motorcycle parking How to Pay All surface lot locations accept American Express, MasterCard, Visa and Discover – no checks. In addition all garage visitor parking locations have at least one machine that accepts cash. How to Use Pay By Phone How to Use Extend By Phone How to Use Pay Machines Pay for Hourly Parking with your Phone Skip the line! Some hourly visitor parking areas accept payment with your mobile phone via the ParkMobile App. Easy to register and use Saves you time and money Use the app’s suggested nearby zones to start parking quicker Extend your parking session on-the-go Save Favorite and Recently Used zones Optional, customizable expiration notifications Ability to view parking history Add up to 5 license plate numbers to your profile at a time See available parking lots and garages More on ParkMobile Free Timed Parking A limited number of spaces on campus are designated as timed parking and intended for short term parking only. These spaces are designated by signs and/or paint on the curb/space which indicates the period of time someone may park in the space. No permit is required to park in the timed spaces except in Lot 104. The time limit is strictly enforced. Timed Parking Map Pre-paid Visitor Permits In addition to the hourly rate facilities, visitors may choose to pre-pay for daily, weekly or monthly parking by logging in to My Account with their NetID and clicking "Purchase event or available annual permit". Visitors without an existing account must first create an account. Refer to the maps below to view available parking locations during the time you will be visiting campus. Fall/Spring Map Summer Map Parking Rates Effective 9/1/21 Daily $5 $10 Weekly $20 $25 Monthly $30 $45 Department Guests Guests should contact their department or event sponsor for parking information or park in an hourly Visitor Parking Area The Transportation Services Special Event unit provides scheduling for parking, traffic devices and officer support for all your special events, conference and department guest needs. Requests are fulfilled based upon availability. More department guest information Temporary Parking Temporary parking permits for surface lots are available on a limited basis. The issue of a temporary surface lot permit is contingent upon space availability as determined by Transportation Services. Individuals who do not have a current parking permit and who need to park on campus temporarily may purchase a temporary permit online. These permits are not valid at the Texas A&M Health Science Center. Rules and Enforcement Visitors to the Texas A&M University campus are always welcome. Transportation Services has provided parking accommodations for visitors in locations listed on this page. The fee for parking in these areas is posted at the entrance to each parking facility. If parking is not available in one of these areas or if special arrangements are needed, please call Transportation Services at 979.862.PARK. University affiliates who park on campus are required to purchase a permit, therefore, we ask visitors to refrain from parking in areas designated for faculty, staff and students, unless prior arrangements are made through Transportation Services. Using campus parking facilities for any purpose other than what they are intended is prohibited. No recreational activity may occur within parking lots or garages, including stairwells, without prior authorization from Transportation Services. Violators are subject to ticketing, booting and/or towing. Faculty, staff and students are responsible for any citations that are issued to visiting family members. Should a relative of Texas A&M University faculty, staff or students receive parking citations, Transportation Services has the authority to bill the citations to the University's affiliate. Transportation Services reserves the right of refusal for any activity. For questions, please contact Customer Assistance at 979.862.PARK or email parking@tamu.edu. How to use the equipment More Parking Resources Campus Parking Map Disabled Parking Gameday Parking RV Parking Bus Parking (please call 979.862.2551 for reservations) Annual Event Parking Parking My Account Find My DPR Visitor Info Disabled Retirees Vendors RV Sports Camps Department/Group Parking Regulations Break & Summer Parking Night & Weekend Parking Parking Maps Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03