Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home News & Announcements News & Announcements December 16, 2020 December 17: Commuter Shuttle Service Expected to Resume at 10:00 a.m. Due to a Winter Storm in the New York City metro area, Columbia Transportation services have been impacted. Regular service is expected to resume at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, December 17, but further delays are possible due to poor road conditions. Please check the Passio Go! app for real-time updates, bus locations, and travel times. We will also continue to post updates here as conditions change. October 19, 2020 Fall 2020 Bicycle Interest Group Newsletter Sign up to receive this newsletter in your inbox. October 05, 2020 Commuter Shuttle Updates: Students Now Eligible and New Manhattan East Side Route Updates to rider eligibility and route enhancements have recently been made. October 01, 2020 Columbia Deploys New Commuter Shuttle Service for Affiliates Returning to Campus this Fall Columbia University announced in advance of the Fall 2020 term that a new fleet of Commuter Shuttles would be implemented to help the community commute to and from campus, as an option additional to public transit and the Intercampus Shuttles. The buses service four boroughs and run throughout the day in an effort to service the majority of Columbia's faculty, staff and students. September 01, 2020 Fall 2020 Academic Year Shuttle Schedules Now Available As the summer comes to a close, we’re writing to share the revised Academic Year schedule, which goes into effect Tuesday, September 8. The 96th Street stop location has been added to better meet the needs of our riders across the shuttle network. All departure times have been adjusted accordingly. Please remember the safety measures in place due to COVID-19 and always wear a face covering while aboard the bus. August 20, 2020 Columbia Announces New Commuter Shuttles for Faculty and Staff Returning to Campus In a message from the Interim Provost to Columbia affiliates on August 18, it was announced that Columbia will provide commuter shuttles for faculty and staff working on site to facilitate movement back and forth to campus for the Fall term. Details on the service are still being decided, and more information will be posted here in the coming weeks. July 24, 2020 Additional Intercampus Shuttle Soft Stops at 145th Street Beginning on Monday, July 27, soft stops will be added to the Intercampus Shuttle schedule at 145th Street on both the north- and south-bound buses. July 09, 2020 Additional Intercampus Shuttle Service Beginning July 13 Beginning Monday, July 13, the Intercampus Shuttle's Red Line will be extended until 12:30 a.m. on weekdays. Weekend service will also be added, following the Green Line’s schedule. June 29, 2020 Citi Bike Set to Expand to 184th Street this Summer Citi Bike is expanding its network and is expected to reach 184th Street this summer. The expansion will provide more sustainable and healthy travel alternatives for those living uptown. June 18, 2020 Upcoming Shuttle Bus Changes Please be aware of the following shuttle bus schedule changes taking effect over the next few days. June 18, 2020 No Intercampus Shuttle Bus Service Friday, June 19 Due to University Holiday The Intercampus Shuttle will not operate on Friday, June 19 due to the University holiday*. It will resume Summer service on Monday, June 22. June 16, 2020 Commuting to Campus Information for Employees Who Are Returning to Campus June 09, 2020 Columbia Partners with Via to Provide On-Demand Evening Shuttle Service Columbia Transportation and Public Safety have partnered with Via to transition Evening Shuttle service to an on-demand app-based system. The new service is available beginning Monday, June 15, and will replace the Public Safety Evening Shuttle buses. Riders will now be able to request a ride using their smartphone, within defined operating hours and location boundaries, as a safe, convenient and free transportation option at night. June 08, 2020 Additional Summer Intercampus Shuttle Service Beginning Today Beginning today, an additional shuttle bus will be added to the summer Intercampus route to increase frequency of service. June 04, 2020 Columbia Transportation Survey Results Show Fewer Drive-Alone Commutes, More Walking Commutes Results from Columbia’s most recent Commute and Travel Survey show that between May 2018 and February 2020 fewer Columbia affiliates chose a drive-alone commute and more walked to campus. Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Current page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close