Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Parking Pay Hourly Parking by Phone Pay for hourly parking with your phone! The free ParkMobile app makes it easy to find and pay for parking through your phone. You can even extend your time through the app and avoid running back to feed the pay machine. Hourly payment is available through the ParkMobile app and via the mobile web app. Need to reserve parking for sports or campus events? Visit our ParkMobile Reservations page How it works Download the ParkMobile app, available on the AppStore, Google Play, or Windows Store, or those without a smartphone may use the mobile web app. Sign up with your email, license plate number, and a payment method. Once registered, you may begin to use ParkMobile immediately to pay on-the-go! Get more help Parking zones on campus Lot Code Golf Lot 7738 Motorcycle 7732 Post Office 7741 Northside Garage 7725 Lot 24 7735 Lot 30 7736 Lot 40a 7737 Lot Code Lot 58 7739 Lot 61 7721 Lot 63 7744 Lot 72 7724 Lot 74 7722 Lot 88 7728 Lot Code Lot 97 7723 Lot 100 7730 Lot 101 7746 Lot 122 7726 Lot 126 7740 RELLIS Campus 7743 What are the advantages of ParkMobile? Easy to register and use Saves you time and money Use the app’s suggested nearby zones to start parking quicker Extend your parking session on-the-go Save Favorite and Recently Used zones Optional, customizable expiration notifications Ability to view parking history Add up to 5 license plate numbers to your profile at a time How do I extend my time with ParkMobile? In the app, a countdown timer shows time remaining in parking session and displays your session details. Based on location, you will be offered options to extend your session. You will also receive an optional 15-minute notification to let you know when your session is about to expire. How does the parking officer know I've paid by phone? When you pay for your parking by phone, your space or license plate number and parking time are automatically displayed on a handheld device used by the parking officer. How many vehicles can I add to my account? You can have up to five vehicles on your ParkMobile account. You can add a vehicle to your account in your Personal Pages, mobile app, or mobile web. Under Settings in your app, view the Vehicle tab to manage the vehicles associated with your account. To manage your vehicles on the ParkMobile site, sign in to your account and choose the Vehicles tab on your Personal Page. What do I need to do if I receive a citation even though I used the ParkMobile app? Although this is unlikely to occur, first review the copy of your ParkMobile receipt to ensure the space, license plate number and time for which you paid matches the space where your vehicle was parked and is within the time indicated on your citation. If you paid for the wrong space number or license plate number or if your time was expired, pay the citation or you may follow the instructions on the citation to file an online appeal. If the space and time paid match the information on the citation, provide your citation number and a copy of the ParkMobile payment receipt that was sent to your email address to the parking office via email to parking@tamu.edu, fax at 979-845-6025, in person at Polo Rd. Building, Suite 350, or by mail to Transportation Services, 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77845. Is it safe to do a credit card transaction on the ParkMobile app? Yes. Your credit card number and cardholder information is encrypted to the industry standard and no employee or user has access to any cardholder data. How much does it cost to pay for parking by phone? You pay the stated posted hourly parking rate for the lot where you parked plus a $0.35 transaction fee. For more information, please visit the ParkMobile website. More Pay Parking Resources How To Use Pay Machines Extend By Phone How To Use Pay Machines Parking My Account Find My DPR Visitor Info Disabled Retirees Vendors RV Sports Camps Department/Group Parking Regulations Break & Summer Parking Night & Weekend Parking Parking Maps Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.862.7275 (PARK) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03