Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Columbia Shuttles Columbia University Shuttle Rider Guidelines Columbia University Shuttle Rider Guidelines Columbia University's Shuttle system exists to serve the faculty, staff and students of Columbia University and Columbia Irving Medical Center. This is not a public transportation service, it has been designed to serve the needs of our Columbia community. Guidelines for Riding the Shuttle Upon boarding one of our shuttles the driver will ask you to tap your Columbia University ID card/CUIMC ID card on the card reader. Seating is available on a first-come-first-served basis. Seats marked "Priority Seating" are intended for seniors, pregnant women, people with disabilities, or others with a physical need to sit down for the duration of the commute. Please relinquish these seats if someone is in need. Disabilities may not be visible. Do not ask riders to share personal medical information if they request a seat. Please do not save seats when seating availability is limited. In these instances, it is also not appropriate to take up two seats (with baggage or otherwise). Please respect the rights of others to the seat next to you. As a courtesy to the passengers boarding, please use the rear exit to debus. Drivers can only stop at designated stops, you can alert the driver that you are off-boarding on the next stop by ringing the bell (the yellow cord by the windows.) Loud conversations and phone calls can be distracting. The shuttle is a great time for interacting with colleagues and friends but please be mindful of the shuttle environment and the volume of your conversation. If you must use your cell phone, please make the call brief and use a quiet voice. Children are welcome to ride, but must be accompanied by an adult - the University ID card holder. Children should be seated in bus seats with their seatbelt fastened throughout the commute. Strollers should be collapsed to allow safe passage through the aisles for other patrons. Parents are responsible for the well-being of their children while on a Columbia shuttle. Riders can track the shuttle’s location in real-time on the Passio GO app. Download the app to view all Columbia shuttle routes, including the Fort Lee, Lamont, Manhattanville Loop, and Intercampus Red, Blue, and Green routes, via smartphone. Real-time emergency communications, such as a missing or disabled bus, bad traffic, weather, or an impaired driver should be communicated to our service team: Thomas Scheiter, Manager, 854-2081 or [email protected] Dave Ramos, Asst. Manager, 854-9686 or [email protected] Any issues, complaints or recommendations that can be addressed on a non-emergency basis should be communicated by e-mail to our team at [email protected] Your message will be kept confidential. You can also use the Passio app to provide feedback to our team, make a suggestion and/or report a concern by clicking on upper left tab once you open the application, then selecting the suggestions tab. Accessibility Columbia's shuttles are wheelchair accessible. Evening shuttle service powered by Via provides wheelchair accessible vehicles upon request. Make sure to mark your profile within the app accordingly if you require a wheelchair accessible vehicle. Contact Us Have questions about our shuttles, schedules, car service, or other services? Email or call us and we'll be happy to help. (212) 854-3382 [email protected] Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close