Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home News & Announcements News & Announcements August 19, 2019 Special Campus Travel Advisory: Aug. 23–26 During this upcoming weekend, there will be no subway trains at #1, 2, 3 stations between Harlem and Downtown Brooklyn. On each date, MTA work will commence at 11:30 p.m. Friday evening, and subway service is expected to resume after 5:00 a.m. Monday morning. Please note that during the above periods, there will be no service to the 110th, 116th, and 125th Street stations bordering Columbia's Morningside campus. Use the following travel options and allow ample additional time for your journey to campus. August 07, 2019 Columbia Wins Sustainable Commuter Transportation “Best Overall Program” Award At its annual International Conference – held this year in New York City – the Association for Commuter Transportation (ACT) presented Columbia University with an award for “Best Overall Program” in transportation demand management (TDM). The award recognized Columbia’s achievements in reducing drive-alone commutes, providing alternative sustainable transport for commuters, and the purchase of six battery-electric buses, among other initiatives. July 29, 2019 MTA Planned Service Changes for the Weekends: Aug 16-19 and Aug 23-26 Over the weekends August 16-19 and August 23-26 there will be no trains at 1, 2, 3 stations between Harlem and Downtown Brooklyn. June 28, 2019 The Transportation App now has all Columbia Shuttle lines in one place Previously, the Evening Shuttle, run by Public Safety, was separate from the rest of the Shuttle lines in the Transportation App. This has been changed so that all Shuttle lines and buses are visible in one location. June 07, 2019 Effective Monday, June 10 through August 30, 2019: Note additional Intercampus Shuttle service To lessen the impact of the 168th Street subway stop closure, we have added some additional departuresto the Intercampus Shuttle schedule. These new departures will be made by the Lamont Shuttle and will be effective Monday, June 10. May 29, 2019 Slight Update to Lamont Shuttle Schedule for the Summer Session View and download the latest Lamont Shuttle Schedule, updated for the summer. May 28, 2019 New Intercampus Shuttle Summer Schedule In Effect Today, May 28 The Intercampus Shuttle summer schedule goes into effect today. Click here to download the PDF schedule. May 02, 2019 Thank you for your feedback! Thank you to everyone who completed our Spring 2019 Columbia Transportation Rider Survey. April 29, 2019 Let us know how we're doing — take the Shuttle Rider Survey Our Rider Survey takes 5-7 minutes to complete and your feedback is important to us. March 08, 2019 GPS temporarily disabled on our site Due to a technical issue with the feed between our shuttle buses and the Transportation site, the GPS tracking of shuttles on our site has not always been accurate. We have located the issue and will be putting in a fix that will provide fully accurate tracking. March 08, 2019 Revisions to the Intercampus Shuttle schedule effective Monday, March 11 Last month, we implemented changes to some of Columbia’s shuttle schedules in an effort to improve the efficiency and service of the entire system. In a continuing effort to respond to the feedback we received from our riders after the changes were implemented, we have made the following schedule adjustments, effective Monday, March 11. February 15, 2019 No GWB/Fort Lee Shuttle Service Monday due to President's Day Holiday Columbia's George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle line will not be operating on Monday, February 18, 2019 due to the President's Day holiday. February 15, 2019 Changes Across Shuttle Schedules Schedule changes will take place across several Columbia Transportation shuttle lines effective Friday 2/15. These changes make minor adjustments to timetables in order to ensure more efficient service for all of our riders across the shuttle network. January 31, 2019 Discounted rates for Go Buses Columbia students, faculty and staff receive a 25% discount when booking with Go Buses. January 17, 2019 Manhattanville Loop Shuttle resumes service January 22 The Manhattanville Loop Shuttle will resume service January 22. Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Current page 5 Page 6 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close