Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Columbia Shuttles On-Demand Evening Shuttle On-Demand Evening Shuttle On-Demand Evening Shuttle A safe and free alternative to walking alone at night. Get a Promo Code Download the App Updates for the Academic Year clock icon Hours of Operation The Evening Shuttle operates seven days a week every evening until 3:00 a.m. the following morning, including University holidays. Service begins at different times depending on the month. View this calendar for details. map-marker icon Coverage Area Service covers the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses. View the pre-determined Coverage Area Map to find out where you can ride for free using the Evening Shuttle service. wheelchair icon Shuttle Accessibility Via provides wheelchair accessible vehicles upon request. Make sure to mark your profile within the app accordingly if you require a wheelchair accessible vehicle. id-card icon Who is Eligible? Students, faculty, and staff with an active UNI and Columbia ID on the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses are eligible. All riders must present their Columbia ID to the driver before entering the vehicle. How it Works Columbia Transportation has partnered with Public Safety and Via to provide on-demand transportation service as an alternative to walking alone at night. Using the Via app is the easiest and most effective way to get a ride, but if you cannot use the Via app, you can also call for a ride. Whether you use the Via app or call, you will need to get a promo code before you request your first ride. Please follow the instructions below. Expand all Collapse all 1 Get a Promo Code The free Evening Shuttle option will only be available on the Via app after you have applied a unique promo code. To get a promo code, you must have an active Columbia UNI and accept the Terms of Use. The code is only for your use and will only work for the active academic term; you'll need to request a new one for subsequent semesters. You will only need to apply the code one time to get access to the Evening Shuttle option for the current academic term. Click here to get your promo code 2 Download Via App Before you request your first ride with Via, you will need to have downloaded the Via app, created an account, and applied a unique Evening Shuttle promo code. For first-time users, here is a step by step guide to getting set up and using Via. Download the Via rider app from the App Store (Apple) or Google Play Store: App Store (Apple) Android 3 Create Via Account Create a Via account using your name, email, and phone number. 4 Phone Verification Enter the phone verification code sent to your phone number. 5 Add Billing & Apply Promo Code The Via app will ask you to enter billing information to set up your account. The Evening Shuttle is a free service and you will not be billed for qualifying rides unless you choose to tip the driver, or you select one of Via's commercial rides. Via also accepts debit cards as a billing method although it is not indicated in the app. If you do not have a credit or debit card, or you do not want to enter your credit card information, you can click "Skip" at the top right corner of the screen. This will allow you to book the free Columbia Shuttle rides without a credit card (however, you will need to enter credit card information to book Via paid commercial rides). Redeem your unique promo code provided by Columbia at the bottom of the Add Billing screen and tap done. You can also enter your Columbia promo code at any time after creating your Via account by selecting the Promo Codes section in the app's main menu. 6 Request a Ride Pick-Up location: Choose your pick-up location and tap "confirm my location." Your pick-up location must be within the coverage area to qualify for a free Evening Shuttle ride. Drop-Off location: Choose your drop-off location and tap "set my destination." Your pick-up location must be within the coverage area to qualify for a free Evening Shuttle ride. Number of passengers: Riders can only book a ride for themselves. If you are traveling in a group, each rider needs to request a ride separately. Note: if you do request a ride for more than one rider in the Via app, you will not be offered a free Columbia Evening Shuttle ride. Confirm your trip: Find your pickup location, ETA, vehicle and driver details in the app. Accept* proposal: Select the free Columbia University Evening Shuttle proposal and tap "book this ride." Connect with the driver: If you have any issues finding your vehicle, you can call the driver directly from the Via app. The driver may also reach out directly to you to coordinate. In any case, your phone number will not be visible to the driver. When the car arrives, verify the vehicle model, plate number, and driver photo. Show your Columbia ID to the driver before boarding the vehicle. This is to ensure the safety of both the driver and the other passenger(s) in the car. *NOTE: The free Evening Shuttle option will only appear in the Via app during operating hours and for rides within the coverage area. If you select a ride outside the operating hours and/or with a pick-up or drop-off outside of the coverage area or with more than one passenger, only paid Via commercial rides will be offered through the app. Requesting a Ride Without a Smartphone Using the Via app is the fastest way to get a ride. However, if you don't have a smartphone, you can call Via at 646-692-0576. A dispatcher will respond as quickly as possible, but due to call volume, it may take a few minutes to receive a response. The dispatcher will ask you for your unique promo code, location, and destination. The dispatcher will give you an estimated time of arrival, vehicle information, license plate number, and driver information. Need help or have questions? Please read through the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) before calling. During Business hours: Contact Columbia Transportation at 212-854-3382 or email [email protected]. During Service/After hours: For service-related or technical issues, contact Via’s Customer Service Hotline at 646-692-0576. For non-emergency service help only, use the Public Safety line at 212-854-SAFE (7233). Regulations & Policies The Evening Shuttle will only perform pick-ups and drop-offs within the coverage area. There are also regulations and etiquette that pertain to riding the Evening Shuttle. Riders agree to these policies when they request a ride. The University and its partner Via can deny a ride to anyone who does not honor these policies. Coverage Area Terms of Use Rider Etiquette Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close