Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Commute Stories: George Sarrinikolaou Commute Stories: George Sarrinikolaou George Sarrinikolaou (Office of Academic and Research Programs, The Earth Institute) commutes by bike to Morningside campus from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn George Sarrinikolaou (Office of Academic and Research Programs, The Earth Institute) commutes by bike to Morningside campus from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. George’s trip from Prospect Heights is 12 miles each way, which usually takes him under an hour – sometimes faster than taking the subway. He rode to Columbia for the first time in the days after Hurricane Sandy, and has been riding fairly regularly since then. “I commuted by bike previously when I lived in Vermont, although biking there is much different,” George said. “I had to overcome my own fear and hesitation to begin riding in New York City. Once I tried it, I found that it was not as difficult as I had imagined.” George said that although some days he does take the subway to work, he prefers the days he commutes by bike. “I think it's a really elegant way to travel,” he said. “It's just me and this very simple machine. Biking puts me in touch with reality, the road, the weather, and things around me in a way that's very different from being in a car or being on the subway. I also like the freedom that comes with riding. I set the pace and choose the route and the bike I want to ride. And, of course, biking is better for the environment than commuting by subway or car.” George noted that the more people who commute by bicycle, the less congested our roads, subways, and buses are. Biking, rather than driving, also makes for cleaner air and lower carbon dioxide emissions, which can also make for healthier commuters. “When I ride on the Hudson River Greenway, I see people of all ages riding to work, which suggests that bike commuting can be done safely by anyone,” George said. “I would also say that there are now more people commuting by bicycle than ever before in New York City because of the good infrastructure for biking here. So if there ever was a good time to ride, this is it.” Want to share your commute story? Email Sustainable Columbia at [email protected] to be featured! Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close