Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Transit Charter Information and Request Form Due to COVID, we are facing a shortage of drivers. Please be aware, we may not be able to fill all charter requests. Please submit your request, and someone will contact you as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience and understanding as we navigate this difficult time. Catch the AggieSpirit and book a charter with Texas A&M University Transportation Services. We offer charter service within the Brazos Valley. Buses seat 35 passengers with room for standing depending on the distance traveled. Contact us to charter your next conference, camp, wedding, reunion or other group event. This service is provided on availability of resources. A $96.00 late fee will be assessed for all charters booked less than 2 weeks in advance. Transportation Services will not accept charter requests received with less than seventy-two hours notice. Because of the difficulty in projecting labor and bus availability, requests will not be taken more than 90 days in advance of the date the charter is needed. Please read the Charter Service Policy below for additional details. To the extent allowable by law, your organization agrees to indemnify and hold harmless The Texas A&M University System and any of its components, officers or employees from any claim, demand, or suit whatsoever, whether based upon personal injury, including death, or property damage, or otherwise, which relate in any way to services provided by Transportation Services. By clicking the button below, Requestor warrants that Requestor has authority to bind the Organization to the agreement. Student Organizations Student organizations are required to have the On-Campus Approval to Charge form on the SOFC Resources page completed and signed by the Student Organization Finance Center (SOFC) before any charters can be approved. Non-affiliates Under certain conditions, Transit may provide service to organizations that are not directly affiliated with Texas A&M University organizations. A non-affiliated organization may be considered for charter services provided the following criteria apply: The organization has an account with the university If you are a non-affiliate who has not chartered with us before, please email charters@tamu.edu. Your organization will need to be approved and assigned an account number before the charter can run. The desired charter route will stay within the Brazos Valley area. The organization agrees to pay, in full, the amount billed for services rendered. The decision to provide or deny charter services is solely at the discretion of Transportation Services management. If your organization meets the above criteria, please read and agree to the statement below to complete the Charter Request Form. The information gathered on the form will be used to determine if Transit is able to provide service to your organization at the times/dates requested. Notice of approval or denial will be given upon review of the information. Charter Service Policy Transit's primary mission is to support the teaching, research, and business functions of Texas A&M University by providing fixed route services on campus and to a number of residential areas in the Bryan/ College Station area. The fixed route system is funded entirely through a mandatory student fee. Providing charter services is a secondary function of Transit and will not be operated if doing so has a negative impact on our fixed route system. Because our drivers are primarily students, we are usually unable to accept charter requests where the buses need to operate out of town, all day, late at night, or very early in the morning (before 6 a.m.) when regular classes are in session. We may deny service to venues that are not on hard surfaced roads (asphalt or concrete). Buses have a seating capacity of 35, are air-conditioned, but are not restroom equipped. Charter charges begin accruing 30 minutes before the first pick-up time and a minimum of 30 minutes after the last drop off, depending on the driving distance. These rates will be charged if the bus is in motion or sitting still, and includes the driver, fuel, and mileage. In accordance with University policy, no open containers or tobacco products will be allowed on the buses. Charter routes will be determined by Transportation Services. All charters are to be arranged through the Transit supervisors who may be reached in the following ways: Phone: 979.845.1971 Email: charters@tamu.edu Explanation of Fees Late Fee To better help us plan our bus and driver resources and serve as many people as possible, charters should be booked at least four to eight weeks in advance. A $96.00 late fee will be added to all charters booked less than two weeks in advance. Transportation Services will not accept charter requests received with less than 72 hours notice. Cancellation Fee Booking a charter includes providing a complete, finalized schedule. Failure to provide a final schedule less than two weeks in advance could result in the cancellation of the charter. Because we guarantee our drivers a two hour minimum when they sign up to drive the charter, a $96.00 cancellation fee (per bus) will be charged for any charter canceled less than 7 calendar days before the first scheduled pick-up time. Change Fee Changes to charter (locations or start and/or end times of more than 15 minutes) less than 7 calendar days before the first scheduled pick up time will result in a $96.00 late change fee and could result in the cancellation of the charter if the drivers or equipment are not available at the requested times. All changes must be confirmed in writing through the Transit supervisors. Cleaning Fee If the bus is exceptionally dirty when returned, an additional cleaning fee (minimum of $125.00) will be assessed. Calculation of Charges Charter charges are calculated as follows: Example 1 - You want your group picked up at 10 a.m. and the bus will shuttle passengers back and forth until 1:30 p.m. It takes the driver 7 minutes to return to the garage. Charges begin at 9:30 a.m. and end at 2:00 p.m. Charter time is 4 hours and 30 minutes. Invoice will total $553.50. (4.5 hours X $123.00/hour = $553.50) Example 2 - You want your group picked up at 7:30 a.m. and the bus will transport passengers from Hotel A (the pick up point or origination) to the drop off point (destination). The bus will then return to the garage by 8:15 a.m. In the afternoon (of the same day), you want your guests picked up and returned to the origination at 5:00 p.m. and the driver returns to the garage at 6:15 p.m. Charges for the morning segment will be from 7:00 a.m. to 8:45 a.m., charter time is 1 hour and 45 minutes, and will be rounded up to the 2 hour minimum. Charges for the evening segment will be from 4:30 p.m. until 6:45 p.m., charter time is 2 hours and 15 minutes. Invoice will total $522.75. (2 hour morning segment + 2.25 hour evening segment = 4.25 hours. 4.25 hours X $123.00/hour = $522.75) If you do not receive a confirmation email at the address you provide on the next page, your request has not been submitted. Hourly Fees local charters only 2 hr minimum per bus Affiliates $123.00/hour Non-affiliates $154.00/hour Fees Late Booking $96.00 Change $96.00 Cancellation $96.00 (per bus) Additional Cleaning $125.00 Upcoming Blackout Dates Transit Leave Times & Maps Service Dates Service Information How to Ride Paratransit Charters Park N Ride Transit Advertising Gameday Service Airport Shuttle Break/Weekend Shuttle About Transit Transit FAQs Transportation Services 1373 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 979.847.7433 (RIDE) Questions/Comments Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03