Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home News & Announcements News & Announcements January 03, 2019 CUIMC southbound riders should board at 166th St. and Broadway Due to construction, the 168th Street shuttle stop is temporarily not in service. Southbound Intercampus Shuttle riders should board the shuttle at 166th Street and Broadway in front of Children's Hospital. December 18, 2018 The Manhattanville Loop Shuttle will not operate during Winter Break • The last day of service will be Friday, December 21 • Service will resume on Tuesday, January 22 November 22, 2018 No Shuttle Service Over Thanksgiving Holiday Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, Columbia Shuttles will not be operating Thursday, November 22 or Friday, November 23. Service will resume after the holiday. November 05, 2018 Updates & New Stops for the Manhattanville Loop The Manhattanville Loop route is expanding to include morning and evening A Train service, and gains an additional stop at the Studebaker Building entrance. September 26, 2018 Tour one of Columbia's new electric buses Join us and Columbia's mascot Roar-ee on College Walk Tuesday, October 2, between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m. to tour one of the new buses. September 04, 2018 Fall Term Shuttle Schedules Now Available Shuttle schedules have been updated for the Fall 2018 term. The latest schedules are available on the various shuttle landing pages, which can be accessed via the navigation menu above, or by clicking on the appropriate shuttle link on the home page. September 04, 2018 GPS Live Shuttle Tracking Now Available GPS tracking has now been enabled for the Intercampus, Manhattanville Loop, Lamont, GWB/Fort Lee and Evening Shuttles via this website. Thank you for your patience as we integrated this capability into the new site. August 30, 2018 Columbia University Named #1 School for Sustainable Transportation Electric fleets, carpool and car share incentives, and bicycle-friendly amenities help Columbia earn top performer for transportation in the 2018 Sustainable Campus Index. July 09, 2018 Columbia University Electric Shuttle Buses Hit the Road Campus shuttle system transitions to electric buses, reducing emissions by 70% July 05, 2018 What do you think of our new website? We've redesigned our site. Let us know what you think! July 04, 2018 New Passio Go! app tracks multiple shuttles We've moved to a new app called Passio Go! which will allow you to track the location of the Intercampus, Lamont, and Evening Shuttles. In the near future, all shuttle routes will be available through the new app. Click here to download Passio Go! for your mobile device. May 21, 2018 Intercampus and Manhattanville Loop Summer Schedules Modifications to schedules and shuttle service for the summer period. Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Current page 6 Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close