Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation You are here: Home Evening Shuttle Rider Etiquette Evening Shuttle Rider Etiquette Beginning November 1, 2020, all New York residents and visitors over the age of eight will be required to wear seat belts in the front and back seats of all motor vehicles, including for-hire vehicles like Via. Under the law, both you and your driver may be subject to fines if you do not buckle up. Before boarding your vehicle, make sure that the vehicle’s license plate matches the one provided on the Via app. You may also ask the driver’s name and match it to the name provided. To ensure the safety of our drivers and the passengers onboard, we ask that you show your CUID to the driver for validation prior to boarding the vehicle. If you don’t have your CUID, you can present a state ID. Be ready to go when your vehicle arrives. Enter and exit the vehicle promptly to maintain timely service for other riders. Please be respectful to the driver, vehicle, and other passengers at all times. It is vital that riders be ready at the pickup point to ensure a speedy pickup. The driver will wait at the stop for 2 minutes before cancelling the ride and moving on to the next pickup. Please know that the drivers must pick up and drop off at the requested destination. They are not allowed to drop off or pick up at a different location. Drivers cannot pick up or drop off riders outside the established Columbia University zone(s). To see a map of the service zones, visit this webpage. If you can’t make your pick-up, cancel through the Via app so we can give your seat to someone else. If you requested a vehicle over the phone, please call back to cancel. You may not eat or drink in the vehicle. Clean up after yourself. Please don’t leave any garbage in the vehicle. Check to make sure you have all your possessions before exiting the vehicle, especially your keys and cell phone. For Via Support and 24-hour customer service, click on the “Help Center” button in the app’s main menu. Support agents are available to help at any time. Any issues, complaints, or recommendations that can be addressed on a non-emergency basis should be communicated by e-mail to our team at [email protected]. Your message will be kept confidential. On-Demand Evening Shuttle NEED HELP OR HAVE QUESTIONS? The chat feature within the Via app is the most expedient channel for live support. Riders will be put in touch with a live agent almost immediately; their location will be easily trackable, and the support experience will be quicker and more efficient than calling in. If you prefer to talk to a live agent over the phone, you can call Via's Support line at 646-692-0576. Please read through the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) before calling. For questions about eligibility or receiving a promo code during business hours, contact Columbia Transportation at 212-854-3382. After hours, use the Public Safety non-emergency line at 212-854-SAFE (7233). Return to On-Demand Evening Shuttle homepage Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close