Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Texas A&M University Quiet Zone The university is moving forward with plans to create a quiet zone around railroad crossings on campus. Texas A&M University is working in conjunction with Union Pacific Railroad, the cities of Bryan and College Station and the Texas Department of Transportation to establish a railroad quiet zone along Wellborn Road. The university has experienced tremendous growth to include large scale developments along the rail route that bisects campus. Texas A&M has many structures such as residence halls, classroom buildings, teach and research labs, and a hotel conference center adjacent to the tracks with several new developments currently under construction. Train horns reduce the quality of life for students, faculty, staff and guests who live, learn, teach, work and visit the campus. The university is improving the safety of campus intersections along the railway to meet the standards required for the Federal Rail Authority to consider the approval of the discontinuance of train horn activation when trains travel through campus. SSC Services for Education is managing the project. Kimley-Horn and Associates was selected to design the planned improvements and serve alongside Mobility Planning & Engineering as a consultant to the project. Brazos Paving is completing the road construction work. Project Timeline and Process Project Timeline Project Process Notice of Intent Oct. 25, 2019 Request to Modify Pickard Pass Oct. 28, 2020 Public Authority Application Apr. 13, 2021 Response to Public Authority Application July 26, 2021 Application Decision Letter March 9, 2022 Wayside Horn Demonstration Transportation Services hosted a demonstration in February 2020 showcasing a lower decibel type of horn that may be used at railroad crossings near campus. Wayside horns are stationary horns that blow focused sound at the direction of oncoming traffic. These would blow in place of train horns, significantly reducing the amount of noise when trains pass through campus. A wayside horn is demonstrated at the intersection of George Bush Dr. and Wellborn Rd. These horns are proposed to be installed at the railroad crossing at George Bush Dr. In the News The Battalion May 28 May 28, 2020 Texas A&M Today May 14 May 14, 2020 Texas A&M Today Feb. 6 February 6, 2020 The Eagle Feb. 6 February 6, 2020 KXXV Feb. 6 February 6, 2020 KBTX Feb. 5 February 5, 2020 KAGS Feb. 5 February 5, 2020 More Campus Projects Additional Projects and FAQs Construction info & updates Transportation Services Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03