Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Transportation Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Columbia Shuttles Commute & Travel Options Parking Charter & Car Services Incentives About Us Intercampus Shuttle Manhattanville Loop Shuttle George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle Lamont Shuttle Evening Shuttle Community Shuttle Download the Shuttle Tracker App Android iOS Learn how to route your Shuttle trip Rider Guidelines Our Electric Buses Our Mission Bike Citi Bike Commuter Bicycle Parking Enclosures Bike Parking Map Free Bike Registration Bike Skills Education Bike Locks Showers and Change Rooms Discounts for Bike Maintenance and Helmets Bike Interest Group Email List Rideshare Carpool and Vanpool Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Rideshare Apps Guaranteed Ride Home Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tips for Carpooling Mass Transit Commuting to Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Campus Transit Resources for Commuters From: New Jersey, and Points North and West New York City Westchester and Connecticut Crime Prevention Tips Walk Flexible Work Arrangements Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (TPRP) Lamont-Doherty Shuttle Park and Ride (Rockland County) Car Share (Zipcar) I'm Looking for Parking 24/7 Parking Commuter Parking Daily Parking Special Event and Seminar Parking Application Summer Parking Parking Options in Fort Lee Current Parkers Locations and Rates Parking Alternatives Electric Vehicle Buying Info Parking Policy Contact the Parking Team Car Service Bus and Van Charters Crown Commuter Stories Register as a Crown Commuter NJ Transit 25% Student Discount Bike Share (Citi Bike) Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Flexible Work Arrangements Go Bus Columbia Discount Green Passes for Low-Emission Vehicles Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville - Fort Lee Shuttle Guaranteed Ride Home Manhattanville Carpool Parking Discount Manhattanville Zipcar Membership Reimbursement Reduced Tolls for Carpooling Tax Incentives for Faculty and Staff Car Share & Hire Electric Vehicle Buying Info News & Announcements Sustainability Awards See All Services Resources MTA Service Status EasyPay Metro Card Campus Maps NYC Department of Transportation Columbia Transportation Home Providing transportation services and information to the Columbia University community. See Our Shuttle Routes Browse Our Services Safety Protocols During COVID-19 Columbia Transportation and its partners have implemented a number of recommended safety measures to reduce risk for employees and the Columbia community during COVID-19. We will monitor the evolving situation periodically and continue to adjust our policies accordingly. News & Announcements May 17, 2022 Summer Schedule for Intercampus Shuttle Begins May 23 The Intercampus Shuttle summer schedule will begin on Monday, May 23. The last day of the Academic Year schedule will be Saturday, May 21. Tags Shuttle Schedules April 12, 2022 Expanded Intercampus Shuttle Schedule Beginning April 18 We’re writing to inform you of some additions to the Intercampus Shuttle service, including new stops and expanded evening hours. Beginning Monday, April 18, the following changes will take effect. Tags Shuttle Schedules March 15, 2022 Evening Shuttle (Via) Coverage Area Expanded to 137th Street The Evening Shuttle (powered by Via) coverage area has been expanded north to 137th Street (west of Broadway). Please view the full coverage area map for details. Tags Evening Shuttle More News Columbia Transportation Shuttle Routes Below are the various Shuttle Routes available to the Columbia Community. Visit the landing page for each route to learn more and view schedules. calendar icon Shuttle Availability Unless otherwise specified, Columbia Shuttles are available year-round, excluding University holidays. Intercampus Shuttle The Intercampus Shuttle connects the Morningside Campus with the Manhattanville and CU Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) Campuses as well as Harlem Hospital. It operates Monday through Friday, excluding University holidays. This shuttle can be tracked on this site and using the Passio Go! mobile app. George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee Shuttle The George Washington Bridge/Fort Lee shuttle provides transportation to and from the CU Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) Campus to the George Washington Bridge and further on to Fort Lee. The shuttle operates Monday through Friday, excluding University holidays. This shuttle can be tracked on this site and by using the Passio Go! mobile app. Lamont Shuttle The Lamont Shuttle connects Morningside Campus with the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. It operates Monday through Friday, with limited service on Saturday; the shuttle does not run on University holidays. This shuttle can be tracked on this site and using the Passio Go! mobile app. On-Demand Evening Shuttle Columbia Transportation has partnered with Public Safety and Via to provide on-demand transportation service as an alternative to walking alone at night. Community Shuttle Columbia University provides free shuttle bus service for qualifying individuals via the ADA-accessible Intercampus Shuttle. The shuttle connects 96th Street, the Morningside campus, the CU Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), and Harlem Hospital (HH) with stops at nearby subway and transit stops. Manhattanville Loop Shuttle Transportation between frequently visited locations on the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses. Interactive Shuttle Maps and Live Shuttle Tracker map-marker icon Plan Your Trip Choose a shuttle route below to plan your trip with our interactive maps and to track where the shuttle is in real time. The maps work just like Google Maps. Although routes can be made visible or invisible using the toggles, please note that a route must be visible to be included in a destination search using the map. And remember, seating is provided on a first-come, first-served basis. id-card icon Don't Forget Your ID All Shuttles require a valid Columbia University ID, except the Community Shuttle which has separate ID requirements. compass icon Track the Shuttles See exactly where the our shuttles are in real-time using the GPS functionality of our Shuttle Stop Maps, found on each of our shuttle landing pages or via the all-shuttle map below. Live tracking is also available using our Shuttle App (powered by Passio Go!), available for free download. All Columbia Shuttle Routes This map shows all Columbia shuttle routes. You can perform a route search across all shuttle lines using the Starting Point and Destination fields and track each shuttle in real time. Clicking on a stop marker will display information about the stop, a picture of the stop, and the next three times a shuttle stops there. For full shuttle schedules and to view maps dedicated to one shuttle line only, visit each shuttle landing page, available through the top navigation. fullscreen Columbia Transportation (212) 854-3382Email: [email protected] Columbia Parking Office (212) 854-9455Email: [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close