Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Home / Back to Sustainable Transportation Bicycle Frequently Asked Questions Where are there bike lanes on campus? You can find information about bike lanes, bike racks and maintenance locations on campus by visiting our Bike Map. What side of the street do I ride on? When riding a bicycle in the road you are considered a vehicle. Always ride on the right side of the road while on campus. Where do I park my bike during the day? We have thousands of bike racks across campus. Here is a map that can help find the closest one to you. Are there locations on campus where I can park my bike overnight? Nearly all the racks on campus are 24hr parking. That said, we do have a few no overnight racks that are labeled with large white lettering across the top-tube which reads “No bike parking from 11:00pm to 6:00am.” If there is no sign or writing on a rack then it is okay to use for overnight parking. It’s important to keep in mind though that racks on campus are for bicycles currently in use only. All abandoned bicycle will be removed. Do I need to lock my bike? You should always lock your bike when not using it on campus. We highly recommend using a hardened steel U-lock. What do I do if I cannot find my bike? When bikes are not secured to a bike rack, we will move them to the next available bike rack in that area. If you cannot find your bike on any bike rack, please email us at bikes@tamu.edu so that we may check the bike impound. 9 times out of 10 the bike has been impounded rather than stolen. In the event that we do not have your bike, you may contact University Police Department at 979.845.2345. How do I get my bike back if it is impounded? Do I have to pay a fee to get it back? Simply email the Sustainable Transportation office at bikes@tamu.edu and schedule an appointment to visit the impound. There is no charge associated with retrieving a bicycle from the impound. Do I need to register my bike? Texas A&M Transportation Services requires all bicycles on campus to be registered and show proof of registration by displaying a permit to avoid enforcement action. Mandatory bike registration includes a required $10 dollar fee applied to each bike registered. More on registration Where do I register my bike? Log in to My Account to register your bike. What information do I need before I register my bike? Bike make/brand Color Serial Number Where can I find my serial number? You may also upload two pictures (max size 1MB each) Pictures can be added at any time, by logging into My Account We recommend uploading photos that will help in identifying your bike, such as a full image of the bike, scan of your purchase receipt, or picture of your serial number plate. Where can I find more information about bike laws? You can find more information about bike laws here. Where can I get a bike if I don’t have one? If you just want to use a bicycle for the day the university offers a “Borrow-A-Bike” program. Through this program students can borrow a bicycle free of charge up to 24hr. If you need a bicycle for an extended period of time the university also offers a bicycle lease program. For $50 a semester the student receives a bicycle, u-lock, and cable. For more information about either of these programs please visit our website. What do I do if I sell my bike? If you sell your bike, please remove the bike permit before transferring ownership and return it to Transportation Services in Polo Rd. Building, Suite 350 or mail to 1250 TAMU. If you get a new bike, log into My Account to register it. My bike is broken. Will the university fix it? No, but you can take it to The Hub (do-it-yourself repair facility) across the street from the Commons on Lubbock Street. You can also bring your bike to Wheeler Wednesday for a check-up from a certified bike mechanic, who will show you how to fix your bike or refer you to an off-campus repair shop if necessary. Where can I get more information about bikes? All information regarding bicycles on campus can also be found on our website: transport.tamu.edu/bicycles. You can also contact Sustainable Transportation by sending them an email at bikes@tamu.edu. Bike Registration Borrow a Bike Bike Leasing Summer Bike Storage Bike Auctions Theft & Safety Parking Menu Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Rideshare Bike Registration Bike Regulations State Bicycle Laws Theft & Safety Borrow a Bike Summer Bike Storage Bike Auctions Bike Maintenance Bicycle FAQs Bicycle Master Plan Bike Lanes, Racks & Maintenance Stations City Bike Lanes Transportation Services 1250 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843 bikes@tamu.edu Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03