Skip to Main Content Skip to Search Box and Social Media Skip to Chat Skip to Visitors Skip to Maps Skip to Parking Skip to Transit Skip to Sustainable Transportation Skip to Departments Skip to About/Contact Us Skip to Footer with Area Contact Info Transportation Services Maps Menu MAPS Home Parking Map Visitor Parking Bus Routes Sporting Events Any Valid Permit Parking Business/Campus Permit Timed Parking Break/Summer Campus Construction Visitors Sporting Events Campus Events Visitor Parking Pay By Phone Extend By Phone RV Parking Olsen Pavilion Department Guests & Conference Parking Fun Runs New Student Conferences Fish Camp, T-Camp, Howdy Camp & IMPACT Summer Camps Parking Menu PARKING Home Sporting Event Parking Campus Events RELLIS Parking HSC Parking Pay Parking Ticket Search for Citation Appeal Parking Ticket Regulations Services Forms Frequently Asked Questions Transit Menu TRANSIT Home Real-Time Maps & Schedule Paratransit/Disabled How to Ride Service Information Service Dates Charters Sustainable Transportation Menu SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Home Bicycles Park N Ride Bike Share Car Share Rideshare Break/Weekend Shuttle Help Fund Sustainable Mobility Transit Slow Moving Vehicles Electric Vehicles Departments Menu Group Parking Guest Temp Permits University Vehicles Find Your DPR My Fleet DPR Login About Us Menu ABOUT US Home Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Connect With Us Advertising Employment Management Projects & Construction Surveys Advisory Committee (TSAC) Gameday RV Advisory Committee My Account Texas A&M University Transportation Services Live Chat Mobility options traveling to and around Campus Bikes bike share Veo Veo offers a bike share service with per-ride payment and several subscription options. By signing up with a university email address to access discounted rates, students, faculty, and staff can now unlock and ride one of many pedal and throttle e-bike options located throughout campus. Bike Share bike lease Transportation Services Leasing a bicycle through the Texas A&M Sustainable Transportation (ST) office will allow you to save time and money. The ST office offers durable bikes for your transportation needs in and around the Bryan-College Station community. All registered students are able to lease bicycles on a semester long basis. Bike Lease private bike ownership Bike Ownership Transportation Services offers a comprehensive bicycle program designed to meet the varied needs of students, staff and faculty at Texas A&M. All personal bicycles on campus must be registered with Transportation Services and display a permit. Visit the link to find out where bike lanes, racks and maintenance stations are located throughout campus to serve your biking needs. Bicycle Services Buses bus Aggie Spirit Transportation Services offers free transit service to students, faculty and staff possessing a Texas A&M University or Blinn College ID. Bus routes run both on- and off-campus throughout the fall and spring semesters and on football gamedays. Bus routes and service times vary depending on the day of the week and the time of the year. Aggie Spirit park & ride Park & Ride Customers who do not live directly on a bus route may drive a short distance to an area where parking is allowed and catch the bus at the nearest stop. This allows access to all who choose not to purchase a parking permit. Our Park and Ride stop is located at First Baptist Church of College Station and is serviced by Route 34 (Fish Camp). Park & Ride bus Brazos Transit District Students, faculty and staff possessing a Texas A&M University or Blinn College ID may ride the Brazos Transit District buses operating throughout town for free. Riders must be prepared to show their ID to the driver when boarding at off-campus stops. Brazos Transit District Personal Vehicles vehicle parking Campus Parking Transportation Services offers permit, paid visitor, and event parking at dozens of parking lots and garages located around campus. Drivers wishing to obtain a parking permit must register through Transportation Services. Visit our parking page for details on each of our parking options, programs and services. Campus Parking park & ride Park & Ride Customers who do not live directly on a bus route may drive a short distance to an area where parking is allowed and catch the bus at the nearest stop. This allows access to all who choose not to purchase a parking permit. Our Park and Ride stop is located at First Baptist Church of College Station and is serviced by Route 34 (Fish Camp). Park & Ride Mobility Options From car share, rideshare and bike share to shuttles and buses, we have a service to take you where you need to be, whether that's on campus, around town, or out of town. Select where you're headed below and find the mobility options to meet your needs! I need to travel... to and around campus around town out of town Looking to bring public mobility programs or devices to campus? Visit our public mobility page. Transportation Services Contact Us FAQs Connect with us Parking AggieSpirit Bus Gamedays & Events Transportation AggieSpirit Bus Transportation Employment YouTube Departments Parking Department Transit Department Sustainable Transportation Department Fleet Department Advertising Department Texas A&M University | Division of Operations | Accessibility Policy | PDF Reader | University Privacy & Security Policy | University Contacts Privacy & Security | FAQs | Contact Us version: PM20220520.B2.R1.S03