Jump to navigation User menu Helpful Travel Links Contact Us Concur Login Forms Travel News Travel Agency & Suppliers Princeton Travel & Expense Search form Search Home Faculty & Staff Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Visitors COVID-19 Travel Updates What's New in the Travel Program Airline Status Match Travel Agency Airlines Car Rental Hotels Ground Transportation Parking Rail Travel Suppliers: Hotels For Princeton faculty, staff and students Local Hotels Princeton University has negotiated discounted room rates with several local hotels. As our Preferred Hotels, they offer value-added amenity packages to guests booked through Princeton University. Contracted rates and amenities can be found in our Concur travel booking tool or can be secured by booking through the University's travel agency, World Travel. These rates are for University business only. Click on the buttons below for additional information on any of the 2019 Princeton University Preferred Hotels. Preferred Hotels The travel program recently released a hotel matrix that summarizes negotiated rates and availability of hotel amenities at all of the University's preferred Princeton-area properties. The document will allow University affiliates to compare local hotel rates and see which amenities are available to guests at the present time -- such as shuttle service, restaurants, and fitness centers. Due to the pandemic, not all amenities have been available to guests and the matrix will provide information on their current state for travel arrangers. Access information at Preferred Hotels Matrix. Palmer House Palmer House is located on Nassau Street only two blocks from the front gates of campus. It is a historic Bed and Breakfast affiliated with Princeton University offering elegant accommodations exclusively for University-sponsored guests. Palmer House is the preferred choice of many university departments for hosting individuals and small group and can only be booked by University faculty and staff. To make reservations, contact Innkeeper Jodi Pianka at palmerh@princeton.edu or visit http://www.princeton.edu/palmerhouse/reservations.html Global Hotels Princeton University has access to global discounts at more than 37,000 properties in over 160 countries through World Travel. These are available exclusively via the online Concur travel booking tool or by booking directly with our agency, World Travel. Groups, Meetings, & Events For groups, meetings, and events outside of Princeton that require 10 or more rooms, you can reach out to Susan Godfrey, Travel Program Coordinator, for assistance with sourcing and contract negotiations. You can also contact Susan if you need assistance planning your group, meeting, or event. For groups coming to the university, you can request a group meeting contract directly from any one of our Preferred Hotels. Preferred Hotels More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information More Information Travel Suppliers Travel Agency Airlines Car Rental Hotels Ground Transportation Parking Rail Princeton University ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University