Jump to navigation User menu Helpful Travel Links Contact Us Concur Login Forms Travel News Travel Agency & Suppliers Princeton Travel & Expense Search form Search Home Faculty & Staff Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Visitors COVID-19 Travel Updates What's New in the Travel Program Airline Status Match The Princeton Travel & Expense Program The goal of the Princeton Travel Program is to provide safety, service, and savings to University travelers. The program is designed to: Ensure the safety and well-being of the University’s faculty, staff, and students while traveling Deliver exceptional travel-related services Reduce travel costs The Princeton Expense Program provides expense reporting support and seamless reconciliation of travel and other business expenses. Together, the T&E program offers a suite of tools and services including Concur, an online travel booking and expense management tool; a dedicated team of Princeton travel agents at World Travel, who are accessible 24/7; convenient mobile apps; and the University's credit card programs. IS YOUR DEPARTMENT RESUMING GROUP TRAVEL? To help you manage your group travel in 2022, we are offering a brief presentation for departments, organizations, and programs that are resuming group travel. Learn more about "Group Travel in the New Normal" including how to schedule this presentation for your department. Login to Concur Reservations for University faculty, staff, students, and guests should be booked through Concur, the University’s on-line booking tool, or through our designated travel management company, World Travel Inc. The University’s negotiated rates, car rental insurance coverage, and other benefits are only available by booking via one of these methods. Click here to see all of the benefits you will receive when booking through Concur or with World Travel. In the wake of a judge's ruling on Monday, April 18th that struck down the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's transit masking rules, major U.S. airlines have made mask-wearing optional for both passengers and employees. POLICIES FOR TRAVEL TO AND FROM CAMPUS Permissible Travel Guidelines Maintained by Global Safety & Security Environmental Health and Safety released a Visitor Policy effective May 16th that outlines procedures for all visitors coming to the University campus. News & Announcements Access Rates for Preferred Princeton-Area Properties The travel program recently released a hotel matrix that summarizes negotiated rates and availability of hotel amenities at all of the University's preferred Princeton-area properties. The document will allow University affiliates to compare local hotel rates and see which amenities are... Read More American Airlines Introduces New Benefits for University Groups Now is the time to start booking WinterSession group Travel and AA has just rolled out new group benefits including complimentary priority access and complimentary preferred seating. To book, contact our group... Read More American Revamps Elite-Tier Loyalty Requirements American Airlines is simplifying the requirements for reaching elite tiers in its AAdvantage loyalty program, now having a single set of points needed for each tier. Starting next year, status with American will be based solely on "Loyalty Points," each the equivalent of one AAdvantage... Read More University Travel Guidelines updated The Office of the Associate Provost for International Affairs and Operations updated its Pandemic-Period Permissible Travel... Read More Real ID Deadline Extended to May 3, 2023 The Department of Homeland Security has extended the REAL ID deadline and will not begin to enforce the use of REAL ID until May 3, 2023. Starting May 3, 2023, you must have a REAL ID compliant driver license/ID to fly within the U.S., unless you use a U.S. passport or another federally... Read More Delta Extends Middle Seat Blocking Through April 30 Delta Air Lines will continue its capacity controls, including blocking middle seats, through the end of April, the carrier announced. The new date is a one-month extension of the carrier's previous update to the policy. Delta chief customer experience officer Bill Lentsch in a statement said... Read More View News & Updates Archive Travel Suppliers Travel Agency Airlines Car Rental Hotels Ground Transportation Parking Rail Princeton University ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University