Skip to content Cashier's Office & Student Accounts Office of Finance & Administration Toggle navigation Departments Employees Student Loan Collections Forms Contact Us Surveys Mission Student Services Center Knowledge Base Search Search for: Search The University Cashier’s Office is open for departmental deposits Monday through Friday from 8 AM-5 PM. We have also opened up an after hour drop depository. It is located at the front entrance to Harris Hall, on the right-hand side at the top of the outside staircase. This depository can be used for checks only (no cash). We can arrange to have Brinks pick up large amounts of cash should the need arise. Please email maria_brown@ncsu.edu and lorraine_delois@ncsu.edu to arrange for pick up. Due to the fact that many faculty and staff are without printers and scanners, until further notice, please use the following instructions for completing and submitting a Faculty/Staff Tuition Waiver Form. Information concerning tuition and fees, billing, payments and refunds is found Student Services Center site. The University Cashier’s Office projects a positive image of the University by providing courteous and professional service. We treat each individual customer with dignity and respect. Financial services for the University are provided in an ethical and professional manner with a focus on fiscal integrity and accountability. The success of our students will always be our primary concern. Faculty/Staff Tuition Waiver Regulations Rules and regulations of waiver use. Gold Star Service – Let us know when you receive excellent service! North Carolina State University Cashier's Office 2005 Harris Hall, Box 7213 :: Raleigh, NC 27695 Student Accounts: 919.515.2986 Fax: 919.515.1164 Email: studentaccounts@ncsu.edu All emails are responded to within two business days. Hours of Operation: M-F 8am-5pm Phone Hours: M-F 9am-4pm Cashier's Office & Student Accounts Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in