Skip to content X Latest updates, resources and response to COVID-19 Request More Info Visit Campus Apply Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Quick Links COVID-19 Updates myWSU Canvas WSU Email Login Campus Calendar Directory A-Z index Room Schedules WSU Tri-Cities News Workday Coug Presence WSU Locations WSU Pullman WSU Spokane WSU Vancouver WSU Global Campus WSU Everett About Contact Us Quick Facts Administration and Leadership Calendar Admissions Apply to WSU Tri-Cities Request for Information Tuition & Affordability Visit Transfer Your Credits Make A Major Discovery Academics Programs and Degrees Academic Affairs Resources and Services Libraries Running Start Research Undergraduate Research at WSU Tri-Cities Office of Research and Graduate Studies SIMIAN Laboratory Bioproducts, Sciences, & Engineering Laboratory – BSEL Community Community Engagement Educational Outreach & Partnership Organization Partners and Memberships Give Give Now Why Give? WSU Foundation About Contact Us Quick Facts Administration and Leadership Calendar Admissions Apply to WSU Tri-Cities Request for Information Tuition & Affordability Visit Transfer Your Credits Make A Major Discovery Academics Programs and Degrees Academic Affairs Resources and Services Libraries Running Start Research Undergraduate Research at WSU Tri-Cities Office of Research and Graduate Studies SIMIAN Laboratory Bioproducts, Sciences, & Engineering Laboratory – BSEL Community Community Engagement Educational Outreach & Partnership Organization Partners and Memberships Give Give Now Why Give? WSU Foundation WSU Tri-Cities return to campus updated guidance – Full in-person learning planned for fall – Read more REQUEST INFO CHAT WITH ADMISSIONS VISIT CAMPUS APPLY NOW 50% of students pursuing a bachelor's degree do not pay any out-of-pocket expenses for tuition $275,000 in scholarships are awarded each year to students 92% of students surveyed are employed within six months after graduating 50% of students do not pay any out-of-pocket expenses for tuition $275,000 in scholarships are awarded each year to students 92% of students surveyed are employed within six months after graduating What kind of student are you? We are glad you’re considering Washington State University Tri-Cities. We’ve made it easy to apply for admissions. Start by selecting the student type below: Undergraduate Graduate Not sure? Are you interested in transferring from CBC or BMCC? Learn about the Bridges program. Our Cougs lead extraordinary lives Graduate Career Prepared. Experience hands-on, project-based learning in a personalized, small school setting, with the academic resources of one of the nation’s leading public research universities—Washington State University. Meet Madelyn… Meet Geoff… Meet Isabel… Still Searching For The Right Degree? Learn about the MyMajors quiz to help you decide which program fits your ambitions or explore our degree offering list of 20 bachelor’s and 33 graduate programs. What’s new at WSU Tri-Cities! Fully in-person learning planned for fall Full in-person learning planned for fall, updated guidance Vaccine requirements for WSU students and employees for fall 2021 Most WSU Tri-Cities fall 2021 courses to be offered in-person WSU no longer using SAT and ACT in admissions process Find us on Social Media I was born in Yakima, Washington, and have lived in Eastern Washington most of my life. I graduated from Chiawana High School in 2011 and enlisted in the United States Marine Corps that same year. From 2011 to 2017, I served as a Scout Sniper and Infantryman, deploying to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Republic of Georgia. Following my honorable discharge and one year at Columbia Basin College, I transferred to WSU Tri-Cities in 2018. Since enrolling at WSU Tri-Cities, I have been heavily involved in our student government, and I currently serve as the organization’s President. I’m also the Captain of Men’s Club Rugby, and I am an active member of the History Club and Veterans Club. After I graduate in May 2021, I plan to attend law school. The education I have received at WSU Tri-Cities has given me an excellent foundation for my future studies. The WSU College of Arts and Sciences delivers top-notch instruction on a wide range of topics, and they always promote an inclusive learning environment. Robin Kovis Class of 2021 | History Major REQUEST INFO CHAT WITH ADMISSIONS VISIT CAMPUS APPLY NOW 2710 Crimson Way, Richland, Washington 99354 509-372-7000 tricities.info@wsu.edu Information Request for Information Schedule a Visit Admissions Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Give Quick Links myWSU Canvas WSU Email Login Campus Calendar Directory A-Z index WSU Tri-Cities News Room Schedules Workday WSU Locations WSU Pullman WSU Spokane WSU Vancouver WSU Global Campus WSU Everett Policies Copyright Rule Making Accessibility