Skip to content X Latest updates, resources and response to COVID-19 Request More Info Visit Campus Apply Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Quick Links COVID-19 Updates myWSU Canvas WSU Email Login Campus Calendar Directory A-Z index Room Schedules WSU Tri-Cities News Workday Coug Presence WSU Locations WSU Pullman WSU Spokane WSU Vancouver WSU Global Campus WSU Everett About Contact Us Quick Facts Administration and Leadership Calendar Admissions Apply to WSU Tri-Cities Request for Information Tuition & Affordability Visit Transfer Your Credits Make A Major Discovery Academics Programs and Degrees Academic Affairs Resources and Services Libraries Running Start Research Undergraduate Research at WSU Tri-Cities Office of Research and Graduate Studies SIMIAN Laboratory Bioproducts, Sciences, & Engineering Laboratory – BSEL Community Community Engagement Educational Outreach & Partnership Organization Partners and Memberships Give Give Now Why Give? WSU Foundation About Contact Us Quick Facts Administration and Leadership Calendar Admissions Apply to WSU Tri-Cities Request for Information Tuition & Affordability Visit Transfer Your Credits Make A Major Discovery Academics Programs and Degrees Academic Affairs Resources and Services Libraries Running Start Research Undergraduate Research at WSU Tri-Cities Office of Research and Graduate Studies SIMIAN Laboratory Bioproducts, Sciences, & Engineering Laboratory – BSEL Community Community Engagement Educational Outreach & Partnership Organization Partners and Memberships Give Give Now Why Give? WSU Foundation Accepting applications for fall 2022 Apply now! Campus is closed Monday, Feb. 15, due to inclement weather. Services will remain open, virtually. More info 10May Streeter joins WSU Tri-Cities as director of marketing and communication 03May Heyne brings a passion for sustainable aviation fuels and teaching to WSU Tri-Cities 26Apr WSU Tri-Cities to honor more than 375 graduating students May 7 31Mar Learn about calculating radiation dose at a WSU Tri-Cities-hosted lecture 29Mar Washington River Protection Solutions funds cooperative internship program for WSU Tri-Cities students 24Mar Five leaders honored as 2022 WSU Tri-Cities Women of Distinction 10Mar Kadlec Foundation funds WSU endowment on memory of WSU nursing graduate 23Feb Feb 23: WSU Tri-Cities invites the public to hear the stories of Black community leaders 08Feb Feb. 22: LGBTQ+ and ally panelists will share their experiences at a WSU Tri-Cities event 03Feb Feb. 15: WSU Tri-Cities celebrates Black History Month with a new monument dedicated to the first-black pioneers in Washington territory 16Dec Students find soil temperature affects wine taste with new cabernets 13Dec WSU Tri-Cities transfer student sets sights on law career following spinal cord injury Why WSU Tri-Cities Tri-Cities ranked #7 in nation for STEM graduates. Get connected to prestigious internships and jobs. Affordable – 50% of students pursuing a bachelor’s degree do not pay any out-of-pocket expenses for tuition. Over 40% of students come from diverse backgrounds. A university home for all. Military-friendly campus Apply Request Info Transfer Visit News 10 May, 2022 Streeter joins WSU Tri-Cities as director of marketing and communication 03 May, 2022 Heyne brings a passion for sustainable aviation fuels and teaching to WSU Tri-Cities 26 April, 2022 WSU Tri-Cities to honor more than 375 graduating students May 7 31 March, 2022 Learn about calculating radiation dose at a WSU Tri-Cities-hosted lecture 29 March, 2022 Washington River Protection Solutions funds cooperative internship program for WSU Tri-Cities students Streeter joins WSU Tri-Cities as director of marketing and communication Leslie Streeter joined Washington State University Tri-Cities as director of marketing and communication May 9. In that role she will oversee the campus’ advertising, marketing, public relations, social media and website with a focus on growing enrollment. May 10, 2022 Heyne brings a passion for sustainable aviation fuels and teaching to WSU Tri-Cities Joshua Heyne joined Washington State University Tri-Cities April 25 as director of the Bioproducts Science and Engineering Laboratory, co-director of the Bioproducts Institute and associate professor of mechanical engineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. May 3, 2022 WSU Tri-Cities to honor more than 375 graduating students May 7 Washington State University Tri-Cities will honor more than 375 graduating students this year. The honorees include graduates from the fall 2021 and spring and summer 2022 terms. WSU Tri-Cities 2022 Commencement Ceremony is the first in-person commencement since 2019. April 26, 2022 Learn about calculating radiation dose at a WSU Tri-Cities-hosted lecture Washington State University Tri-Cities is pleased to present the Herbert M. Parker Foundation Lecture Series featuring Michael Stabin April 7 from 5 to 6:30 p.m. April 7 online at YouTube.com/wsutricities. March 31, 2022 Washington River Protection Solutions funds cooperative internship program for WSU Tri-Cities students Washington River Protection Solutions (WRPS), a prime contractor to the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of River Protection, is donating $250,000 to WSU Tri-Cities to establish a unique internship cooperative employment program March 29, 2022 Five leaders honored as 2022 WSU Tri-Cities Women of Distinction Washington State University Tri-Cities recognized five female leaders as Women of Distinction for their contributions to the campus and Tri-Cities community as part of a month- long stories exhibition and March 9 inductee ceremony. The women honored exhibit exceptional leadership in their discipline or area of expertise, serve as role models and mentors to other women, advocate for positive social change and demonstrate a commitment to WSU Tri-Cities' mission. March 24, 2022 Kadlec Foundation funds WSU endowment on memory of WSU nursing graduate The Kadlec Foundation has recently approved the funding of an endowed scholarship to help support the nursing education of first-generation college students. The Yanely Mendoza Memorial Scholarship will be awarded each year to a nursing student pursuing their bachelor’s degree at Washington State University Tri-Cities. The endowment is in memory of Mendoza, who passed away suddenly in 2021 after completing her nursing degree the previous fall. March 10, 2022 Feb 23: WSU Tri-Cities invites the public to hear the stories of Black community leaders Washington State University Tri-Cities’ MOSAIC Center for Student Inclusion and the Black Student Union invite the public to attend “Black Community Leaders Panel: SPEAK OUT!” This free event will be held at 4:30 p.m. Feb. 23 in the Student Union Building, Room 120 on campus and on Zoom. February 23, 2022 Feb. 22: LGBTQ+ and ally panelists will share their experiences at a WSU Tri-Cities event Richland, Wash. – The Washington State University Tri-Cities MOSAIC Center for Student Inclusion, in collaboration with Wavelengths Salon, will hold an LGBTQ+ Panel at 6 p.m. Feb. 22 in the East Auditorium on campus and via Zoom. The event will feature a panel of community members across the LGBTQ+ spectrum and allies who will share their experiences and answer questions from the audience. February 8, 2022 Feb. 15: WSU Tri-Cities celebrates Black History Month with a new monument dedicated to the first-black pioneers in Washington territory RICHLAND, Wash. – Washington State University Tri-Cities will celebrate Black History Month with the dedication of a new monument at 11 a.m. Feb. 15 on campus. The monument will commemorate George Bush, the first Black pioneer in Washington Territory, and his son William Owen Bush, who served in the first Washington State legislature. February 3, 2022 Students find soil temperature affects wine taste with new cabernets RICHLAND, Wash. — Sun exposure and soil temperature can affect the final flavor of wine. Students in WSU’s Viticulture & Enology program put this to the test by monitoring two cabernet sauvignon grape plots in the same vineyard with east and west facing slopes. The resulting wines will be bottled separately and will be available for purchase in spring 2022 through the WSU Wine Store. “They call the slope the pregnant lady, because the vines grow up and over a big hill,” said Madelyn Calderon, a 2020 graduate of the V&E program. December 16, 2021 WSU Tri-Cities transfer student sets sights on law career following spinal cord injury December 13, 2021 Find Your Path. Choose Your Focus. Liberal Arts Learn more Sciences Learn more Business Learn more Education Learn more Engineering Learn more Computer Science Learn more Nursing Learn more Wine Science Learn more Not finding the path you are looking for? Explore our degree options! Lian Jacquez Digital Technology & Culture alumnus “WSU Tri-Cities is a hidden gem,” he said. “We are located in an area that offers great opportunities without a lot of the competition that one might experience at a much larger university. And the people who work here – our faculty, administration, staff and everyone behind the scenes – are here to make sure we all succeed. We, as students, aren’t just a number or another name on the roster.” Read Lian's story Vanessa Moore Business alumna “I am very grateful for my experience here and the people I came to know and what I have gained as a result, getting my degree was important to me, and I wanted to finish it without accruing any student loans. The feeling of completion and accomplishment and knowing that I did well is so validating.” Read Vanessa's story Catalina Yepez Pre-Med Alumna “Everybody here at WSU Tri-Cities is trying to help you succeed, there are a lot of resources here if you use them, and they help you out a lot. I am very happy I came here. WSU Tri-Cities has made me realize that optometry is a competitive field and I need to be a competitive applicant. I’ve definitely gotten help every time I’ve asked for it.” Read Catalina's story Geoff Schramm Environmental Science Alumnus “Attending WSU Tri-Cities is probably one of the best decisions I’ve ever made, the connections I’ve made here, the mentors I’ve had, the external family that I’ve now gained as part of the WSU Cougar community, is priceless. I couldn’t be more grateful for the amazing opportunities I’ve had and people I’ve met through my experience at WSU Tri-Cities.” Read Geoff's Story WSU Tri-Cities is a dynamic and engaged university dedicated to excellence in research and teaching. APPLY NOW 2710 Crimson Way, Richland, Washington 99354 509-372-7000 tricities.info@wsu.edu Information Request for Information Schedule a Visit Admissions Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Give Quick Links myWSU Canvas WSU Email Login Campus Calendar Directory A-Z index WSU Tri-Cities News Room Schedules Workday WSU Locations WSU Pullman WSU Spokane WSU Vancouver WSU Global Campus WSU Everett Policies Copyright Rule Making Accessibility