Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Record Hours Contact Us × Close Menu About us Students Students Volunteer Opportunities Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Civic Engagement Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff True Blue Fellowship Volunteer Opportunities Employee Community Service Leave Benefit Social Issue Areas Community Partners Community Partnerships Submit Opportunity Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page True Blue Neighbors / Public Service Internships Public Service Internships Undergraduate students with a classification of Junior or Senior may earn up to three hours of academic credit through the Public Service Internship course. Interns placed with non-profit organizations, government agencies, or schools will enhance their educational experience and career options, and deepen their understanding of public and community service while making a meaningful impact in the community. Standing internships are available each semester. Additionally, in coordination with the course instructor, new internship opportunities may be created in alignment with a student’s academic track and future goals. Recent Public Service Internship partners include The City of Tulsa, Youth Services Tulsa, Gilcrease Museum, Tulsa Global Alliance, Emergency Infant Services, The Little Lighthouse, Habitat for Humanity, The Zone, Kendall-Whittier Elementary, Will Rogers Jr/Sr High School, Happy Hands, Kendall-Whittier Main Street, True Blue Pantry, The Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma. Students may email course instructor Melissa-Abdo@utulsa.edu for more information about Public Service Internship opportunities. Prior to enrolling students must confirm the internship meets their degree path requirements with their academic advisor. Course Bulletin PS 3591, PS 3592, PS 3593 Organizations interested in hosting a Public Service Internship may submit an internship description or contact our office for further information. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT