Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Record Hours Contact Us × Close Menu About us Students Students Volunteer Opportunities Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Civic Engagement Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff True Blue Fellowship Volunteer Opportunities Employee Community Service Leave Benefit Social Issue Areas Community Partners Community Partnerships Submit Opportunity Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page True Blue Neighbors / True Blue Fellowship True Blue Fellowship The True Blue Service-Learning Fellowship is a springboard for innovative, collaborative engaged learning in the Kendall-Whittier neighborhood. Through the generosity of the True Blue Neighbors Endowment, this grant supports faculty-submitted experiential learning projects which connect TU students with partner organizations and community leaders to address social issues and meet defined needs affecting the Kendall-Whittier neighborhood. Fellowship selection criteria are based on the application. Projects incorporating a benefit to students/families at Kendall-Whittier Elementary and/or Will Rogers Jr/Sr High School are given preferential consideration. TU Marketing may be scheduled for photographs at appropriate times during the project. Fellowship Application Deadlines March 1-31: Full academic year ($2,500) or Fall semester ($1,250) project stipend October 1-31: Spring semester ($1,250) project stipend Application Landscape Analysis: Summarize the background for your idea, the community needs you will address, and any existing data points related to your project. Objective: Describe your objective and any short or long-term associated goals. Resources/Alliances: List any campus or community organizations you will collaborate or partner with on the project. Measuring Impact: Describe any quantitative or qualitative metrics you will use to measure the impact on the defined community need. End of Project Presentation of project True Blue Neighbors, Office of Integrated and Experiential Learning, or other related University office to report on the project, related research, and impact. Reflection questions: What was the most successful aspect of the project? What were the biggest barriers to project implementation? Are there any volunteer, advocacy, or policy opportunities identified through your project that that would further a positive impact? Provide a summary quote, blog, or short video for promotion on True Blue Neighbors and other university websites and social media accounts. Please contact Melissa Abdo at melissa-abdo@utulsa.edu or true-blue@utulsa.edu with any questions. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT