Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Record Hours Contact Us × Close Menu About us Students Students Volunteer Opportunities Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Civic Engagement Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff True Blue Fellowship Volunteer Opportunities Employee Community Service Leave Benefit Social Issue Areas Community Partners Community Partnerships Submit Opportunity Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page True Blue Neighbors / Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff True Blue Fellowship Volunteer Opportunities Employee Community Service Leave Benefit Social Issue Areas Commitment to Community. The culture of service and community connections extends to faculty and staff across the university. Across academic disciplines and university departments, True Blue Neighbors connects the TU community to volunteer opportunities and collaborate in creating opportunities for integrated learning. With appreciation for our roots in the Kendall-Whittier neighborhood, we are committed to facilitating initiatives that benefit those who live, work, and attend school around us. Our True Blue Neighbors Fellowship provides funding for faculty-developed experiential-learning opportunities to address complex social challenges and meet the needs of our neighbors. Several volunteer events have become annual traditions with employees serving as a group with their colleagues. To be notified of annual service activities including Freshman Move-in Day, Tulsa Area United Way activities, Holiday Bags for Kendall-Whittier Elementary, Employee Appreciation Service Day, and other opportunities sign up for our emails. The University’s generous benefit policy allows employees, with the approval of their supervisor, paid time off to volunteer in the greater Tulsa area. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT