Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Record Hours Contact Us × Close Menu About us Students Students Volunteer Opportunities Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Civic Engagement Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff True Blue Fellowship Volunteer Opportunities Employee Community Service Leave Benefit Social Issue Areas Community Partners Community Partnerships Submit Opportunity Community Service Work Study Public Service Internships Social Issue Areas Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page True Blue Neighbors / Submit Opportunity Submit Opportunity True Blue Neighbors manages three types of opportunities for TU students to engage in the community: Volunteer Service (ongoing or single events) searchable on this page. Community Service Work-Study positions to be posted on TU’s internal Student Financial Services job listing page. Public Service Internships for academic credit to be posted on TU’s internal Career Services page. Organizations may submit a description and details of their opportunity below or contact our office for more information. Have an account? Sign in Job Title Location (optional) Leave this blank if the location is not important Job type Community Serivce Work-Study Position Public Service Internship Volunteer Opportunity Job category Addiction Recovery Advocacy, Policy & Voter Engagement Animals Arts & Culture Criminal Justice Issues Disability Rights & Services Domestic Violence Economic Development & Innovation Education & Youth Environment & Sustainability Family & Infant Support Food Security Health Services Homelessness & Housing Immigration LGBTQ Rights Ministry & Faith-based Outreach Parks & Recreation Racial Equity & Justice Senior Care Description Application email/URL Company Details Company name Website (optional) Tagline (optional) Video (optional) Twitter username (optional) Logo (optional) Maximum file size: 50 MB. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT Insert/edit link Close Enter the destination URL URL Link Text Open link in a new tab Or link to existing content Search No search term specified. Showing recent items. Search or use up and down arrow keys to select an item. Cancel