Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Home Members Committees Calendar Contact Board of Trustees Home Members Committees Calendar Contact Home Welcome Pursuant to the university bylaws, the Board of Trustees is vested with “supreme control” over the university, including all of its colleges and other units. Secure Content Cornell University Authentication Notice: This is an official secure service from Cornell University. Login **NEW** On the BoardEffect login page, click the button Cornell University to reach the Cornell login screen. Login using your NetID as the username, and use your NetID password. Forgot/reset password? Help: Start here if you forgot your password and want to reset it by answering your Security Questions. The Office of the Board of Trustees The Office of the Board of Trustees is housed within the Office of the Vice President and General Counsel. Donica Thomas Varner, serves as Vice President and General Counsel. The Vice President and General Counsel is responsible for legal and governance matters involving the Board of Trustees. Kristin D. MacHenry, serves as Secretary of the Corporation. The Secretary of the Corporation is the official record keeper for the proceedings of the Board of Trustees and provides governance support. Sheila B. Grant, is the Administrative Coordinator for the Board of Trustees providing logistical, event and web support. Information and minutes for open meetings may be found on the Calendar page. University Charter and Bylaws Cornell University Charter Cornell University Bylaws Weill Cornell Medicine Governance Resolution If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University © 2020 Cornell Leadership Leadership Home Office of the President Senior Administration Additional Information Alumni Trustee Election/Process Diversity and Inclusion Emergency Management Stay Informed Cornell Chronicle Ezra Magazine Cornell Alumni Magazine Cornell Sun Inside Higher Ed Chronicle of Higher Education Association of American Universities American Association of University Professors Hosted by CampusPress