Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info Give to Tulane Information For... Search TSSW Home Home About Mission, Vision & History Tulane Excellence ASWB Licensure Pass Rates MSW Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Diversity & Inclusion Empowering Change Task Force Communications from the Administration Virtual Tour Contact Information Degrees & Programs Master’s & Doctorate Degrees Master of Social Work On-Campus Online MSW Curriculum & Coursework MSW FAQs MSW Transfer Credit Policy Doctor of Social Work On-Campus Online DSW Curriculum & Coursework DSW FAQs DSW Program Handbook Advancing Social Work Practice & Leadership Master of Science in Disaster Resilience Leadership MS-DRL Curriculum & Coursework DRLA Faculty & Fellows DRLA Core Competencies DRLA Careers & Alumni PhD in City, Culture, and Community Program Dual Degrees MS-DRL and MSW On-Campus Online MSW and MPH MSW and JD Certificates with MSW Disaster and Collective Trauma Mental Health, Addiction and the Family Disaster Resilience Leadership Certificate Center for Lifelong Learning Field Education Field Education Forms Field Education Manual Field Education FAQs Field Forms Log-in Field Instructor Inquiry Putting Policy in its Place Fellowship Admissions & Aid Admissions Info Master of Social Work Doctorate of Social Work Master of Science in Disaster Resilience Leadership MSW/MS-DRL Dual Degree MSW/MPH Dual Degree MSW/JD Dual Degree PhD in City, Culture, and Community Program Disaster Resilience Leadership Certificate Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships International Students Request Information Start or Complete an Application Faculty & Research Faculty & Staff Faculty by Expertise Elk Place Health Spot Porter-Cason Institute for the Family Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy Summer Institute Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative (GoMRI) Musician Survey Research Surveys Faculty News Resources Academic Calendar Student Rights & Responsibilities Handbook Submitting Feedback and Reporting Concerns Current Students Academic Affairs Key Contacts for the School of Social Work Tulane University Resources Academic Success Coaching Student Documents & Forms Student Editing Assistance School of Social Work Commencement Educational Policy Committee Student Associations Student Government Association Diversity Coalition Association of Black Social Workers Faculty & Staff Resources Adjunct Instructor Resources Adjunct Instructor FAQs Apply to be an Adjunct Instructor Adjunct Instructor Contact Form Self-Care Resources Empowering Change Events News Stories from the Field Alumni & Career Services Give Back Connect Alumni Association Job Listings Licensing Information Continuing Education & Professional Development Alumni & Continuing Education Forms Update Your Contact Info Alumni News Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane News Request Info Information For... Close Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Tulane A-Z Close Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors You are here Home Faculty & Research Porter-Cason Institute for the Family Porter-Cason Institute for the Family The Porter-Cason Institute was established in 1995 with funds from Dorothy Cason, a 1946 alumna of the Tulane School of Social Work, in honor of Elizabeth Porter, one of her professors. Dorothy credited Elizabeth Porter with teaching and emphasizing professionalism in social work. Dorothy valued and emulated that professionalism throughout a very successful and rewarding practice. Dorothy passed away shortly after her endowment to the school and the Porter-Cason Institute is committed to making the best use of her legacy dedicated to the importance of the teaching and learning process. Mission Consistent with Ms. Cason’s expressed wishes that “the income from this fund shall be used for the teaching of family therapy at the advanced level", the mission of the institute is as follows: To enhance the teaching/learning of mental health, addicition, and the family practices for TSSW students, faculty, field supervisors and alumni, as well as in the community (e.g., New Orleans Metro Area), region, nation, and world. This will be done through the development, evaluation, and dissemination of exciting, creative, and innovative teaching and learning activities. For more information, please contact the Porter-Cason Institute Administration. Porter-Cason Institute Director: Parker Robinson, LCSW-BACS, psternbe@tulane.edu, (504) 862-3475 Porter-Cason Institute Administrator: Jessica St. Pierre, jstpierre@tulane.edu General Inquiries: TSSW_PCI@tulane.edu Family Institutes and Resources The goal of the Porter-Cason Institute is to not only advance mental health, addiction, and the family practice but also to inform social work practitioners about the latest and most effective mental health, addiction, and the family practices methods, techniques and research. View Resources Porter-Cason Accomplishments Highlights of the work of Porter-Cason Institute for the Family View Accomplishments Board Members The Porter-Cason board is made up of family therapists and mental health professionals from across the globe. View Bios Training that creates an active learning community We have developed a model for training that creates an active learning community where those trained participate in future trainings of others and actively work in peer supervision and support groups. We subsidize training for not for profit agencies that otherwise could not afford to get staff trained in the best evidence based and effective models of treating families, children and couples. The model enables community building , networking, resource building , cross training and experience between the private and not for profit therapeutic communities in Louisiana and throughout the deep south. Porter Cason Emotionally Focused Therapy Training and Practice Community Development Project: The Porter Cason Institute for the Family brought Emotionally Focused Therapy (EFT), an evidence based practice to Louisiana. We have supported the training of over 60 individuals, 8 are now certified and helping with training others. Certification requires video presentations of an individual’s work with couples and is rigorous. Each training sequence requires 12 full days of training before eligibility to work toward certification. We have live sessions with couples during our trainings. We have 4 peer supervision groups reviewing each others work and studying tapes. We have an active Louisiana steering committee and are providing preliminary introductions to the method at state professional meetings this fall.We have a Louisiana Emotionally Focused website launched. Read a description of community impact by one of the agencies receiving training. The Porter-Cason Institute is developing a work plan to approach our project parallel to Nola for Life (City program). In addition , The Porter-Cason Institute is part of the New Orleans City work group on the children aging out of Foster Care. This group is tasked by the mayor to develop a legislative agenda for these children. In addition we are tasked with understanding gaps in service. The Annie Casey Foundation is staffing the project. Mental Health, Addiction, and the Family Institutes and Resources for Social Work Practitioners Porter Cason Institute for the Family Accomplishments Porter-Cason Accomplishments & Projects Porter-Cason Institute Board Members Mental Health, Addiction, and the Family Institutes and Resources for Social Work Practitioners › Upcoming Events: Sorry, no events. Request Info 127 Elk Place New Orleans, La 70112 1-800-631-8234 msw@tulane.edu TSSW Facebook TSSW Twitter TSSW Instagram TSSW LinkedIn About TSSW Mission & History Privacy Admissions DSW Admissions Info MSW Admissions Info Frequently Asked Questions Academics Degree Programs Core & Elective Course Descriptions Online MSW Program Current Students Documents and Forms Student Rights & Responsibilities Handbook © 2022 Tulane School of Social Work All rights reserved.