Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Request Info Give to Tulane Information For... Search TSSW Home Home About Mission, Vision & History Tulane Excellence ASWB Licensure Pass Rates MSW Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Diversity & Inclusion Empowering Change Task Force Communications from the Administration Virtual Tour Contact Information Degrees & Programs Master’s & Doctorate Degrees Master of Social Work On-Campus Online MSW Curriculum & Coursework MSW FAQs MSW Transfer Credit Policy Doctor of Social Work On-Campus Online DSW Curriculum & Coursework DSW FAQs DSW Program Handbook Advancing Social Work Practice & Leadership Master of Science in Disaster Resilience Leadership MS-DRL Curriculum & Coursework DRLA Faculty & Fellows DRLA Core Competencies DRLA Careers & Alumni PhD in City, Culture, and Community Program Dual Degrees MS-DRL and MSW On-Campus Online MSW and MPH MSW and JD Certificates with MSW Disaster and Collective Trauma Mental Health, Addiction and the Family Disaster Resilience Leadership Certificate Center for Lifelong Learning Field Education Field Education Forms Field Education Manual Field Education FAQs Field Forms Log-in Field Instructor Inquiry Putting Policy in its Place Fellowship Admissions & Aid Admissions Info Master of Social Work Doctorate of Social Work Master of Science in Disaster Resilience Leadership MSW/MS-DRL Dual Degree MSW/MPH Dual Degree MSW/JD Dual Degree PhD in City, Culture, and Community Program Disaster Resilience Leadership Certificate Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships International Students Request Information Start or Complete an Application Faculty & Research Faculty & Staff Faculty by Expertise Elk Place Health Spot Porter-Cason Institute for the Family Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy Summer Institute Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative (GoMRI) Musician Survey Research Surveys Faculty News Resources Academic Calendar Student Rights & Responsibilities Handbook Submitting Feedback and Reporting Concerns Current Students Academic Affairs Key Contacts for the School of Social Work Tulane University Resources Academic Success Coaching Student Documents & Forms Student Editing Assistance School of Social Work Commencement Educational Policy Committee Student Associations Student Government Association Diversity Coalition Association of Black Social Workers Faculty & Staff Resources Adjunct Instructor Resources Adjunct Instructor FAQs Apply to be an Adjunct Instructor Adjunct Instructor Contact Form Self-Care Resources Empowering Change Events News Stories from the Field Alumni & Career Services Give Back Connect Alumni Association Job Listings Licensing Information Continuing Education & Professional Development Alumni & Continuing Education Forms Update Your Contact Info Alumni News Contact Us Apply Give to Tulane News Request Info Information For... Close Search form Search Search search tulane.edu Tulane A-Z Close Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors You are here Home Elizabeth Wisner Social Welfare Research Center for Families and Children Elizabeth Wisner Social Welfare Research Center for Families and Children The Wisner Center was founded in 1982 to promote an increased understanding of the social problems affecting children and families and to promote research in social work related areas. Since 1982, the Center has worked with numerous state and local agencies toward this effort. Over the next five years the focus of the Center will be on addressing the multifaceted problem of violence and the impact of violence on children and families. Violence is an issue that plagues the United States. We now find ourselves amidst an international War on Terror, in a society where violence in the media rules the entertainment industry, and where tragic school shootings change how safe students feel while pursuing their education. In brief, in contemporary America, violence in our communities is pervasive. In terms of Intimate Partner Violence (IPV), more commonly referred to as Äòdomestic violence', an estimated 1.9 million women are physically assaulted annually in the U.S. (Tjaden & Thoennes, 2000), with women being the victims of IPV about five times more often than men. In fact, IPV remains the most common cause of non-fatal injury to women in the U.S. (Kyriacou et al., 1999). Violence in the home extends to the community. One study suggests that as many as 75% of children report being exposed to community violence (Hill & Jones, 1997). Children raised in families where violence is used as a means of problem solving mimic those behaviors in their own problem solving strategies outside of the home. Simply put, the use of violence is both cyclical and systemic and a comprehensive approach to understanding this complex issue is critical to creating informed practices aimed at reducing violence. Dr. Wisner's concerns with the welfare of people lead her to protest against injustices and champion for rights for the oppressed. Consistent with the wisdom and dedication she showed in her lifetime the Elizabeth Wisner Social Welfare Research Center for Families and Children seeks to address social problems by supporting research that addresses the problem of violence affecting families and children. It is the purpose of the Center to support scholars in developing a better understanding of violence, informing interventions designed to address violence and thereby reduce violence in families and communities. About Dr. Elizabeth Wisner Elizabeth Wisner received her A.B. in 1914 from Newcomb College, Tulane University, her Master of Social Work degree from the Simmons College, and her Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1929. Dr. Wisner was a pioneer in the field of social work focusing her attention on social work education in the South and working tirelessly to improve social welfare in the South, authoring Social Welfare in the South from Colonial Times to World War I. She was also involved in the broader issues of social work education curricula. Dr. Wisner served as a member of an expert group of social work leaders, funded by the Rockefeller Foundation in 1938, to make recommendations to changes in social work curricula nationwide, in order to meet the demands of new state and federal social security programs and authored the book Public Welfare Administration in Louisiana. Dr. Wisner was the first female dean of the Tulane School of Social Work and she remained in that position until her retirement after nearly 20 years of service as Dean. After her retirement, Dr. Wisner worked to build social welfare programs and organizations throughout the South. Helpful Links Admissions Information Graduate Degrees Faculty & Staff Academic Calendar Student Rights & Responsibilities Handbook TSSW News Start or Complete an Application Upcoming Events Jun 3, 2022 TGIF 9: Telemental Health and Discussions around Treating Couples and Families Jun 10, 2022 TGIF 10: Telemental Health and Discussions around Groups Jul 16, 2022 Clinical Updates in Trauma Approaches View More Request Info 127 Elk Place New Orleans, La 70112 1-800-631-8234 msw@tulane.edu TSSW Facebook TSSW Twitter TSSW Instagram TSSW LinkedIn About TSSW Mission & History Privacy Admissions DSW Admissions Info MSW Admissions Info Frequently Asked Questions Academics Degree Programs Core & Elective Course Descriptions Online MSW Program Current Students Documents and Forms Student Rights & Responsibilities Handbook © 2022 Tulane School of Social Work All rights reserved.