Google+ Technology Transfer RESEARCHERS INDUSTRY ABOUT CONTACT SEARCH TECHNOLOGIES UCF Chapter of the National Academy of Inventors A Celebration of Innovation! At the University of Central Florida, we celebrate innovation. We recognize that the discoveries made in our labs today will be the breakthrough solutions of tomorrow. To honor the men and women that are pursuing and sharing these discoveries, we opened a local chapter of the National Academy of Inventors. Through this chapter we also celebrate the leadership who foster and nurture innovation at UCF and within our local community. What is the NAI? The National Academy of Inventors is a 501(c)(3) non-profit member organization comprising U.S. and international universities, and governmental and non-profit research institutes, with over 3,000 individual inventor members and Fellows spanning more than 200 institutions and growing rapidly. It was founded in 2010 to recognize and encourage inventors with patents issued from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, enhance the visibility of academic technology and innovation, encourage the disclosure of intellectual property, educate and mentor innovative students, and translate the inventions of its members to benefit society. Invited 2018 Inductees Inductee College, Research Center or Company Department Ayman Abouraddy, Ph.D. Optics and Photonics N/A Linan An, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Materials Science and Engineering Randy Berridge* Florida High Tech Corridor Council N/A Ratna Chakrabarti, Ph.D. Medicine Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences Zenghu Chang, Ph.D. Optics and Photonics N/A Jason Eichenholz, Ph.D.* Luminar Technologies N/A Hassan Foroosh, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Computer Science Richard Gilson, Ph.D. Sciences Psychology Xun Gong, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Xiu Fang “Nadine” Guo, Ph.D. Nanoscience Technology Center N/A Charles Hughes, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Computer Science Jayanta Kapat, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Saiful Khondaker, Ph.D. Sciences Physics Patrick LiKamWa, Ph.D. Optics and Photonics N/A Barbara O’Hara Medicine Health Sciences Tom O’Neal, Ph.D.* Office of Partnerships and Innovation N/A Zhihua Qu, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Alfons Schulte, Ph.D. Sciences Physics Ed Schons* University Economic Development N/A Bahaa Saleh, Ph.D. Optics and Photonics N/A Kenneth Stanley, Ph.D. Engineering and Computer Science Computer Science Kenneth Teter, Ph.D. Medicine Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences Greg Welch, Ph.D. Nursing Nursing Practice Mary Williams National Center for Forensic Science N/A Cherie Yestrebsky, Ph.D. Sciences Chemistry Boris Zeldovich, Ph.D. Optics and Photonics N/A Antonis Zervos, Ph.D. Medicine Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences *denotes honorary member UCF Chapter of the NAI Complete List of Inductees Third Annual Gala and Induction Ceremony Image Gallery Join Us The UCF Chapter of the National Academy of Inventors is open to all members of the university community, including faculty, staff, alumni and affiliates, who have received an issued patent from the USPTO. An annual meeting and recognition ceremony will be held during the academic year and a list of members will be published, in order to enhance networking, recognition, and the opportunity to share your experiences. Membership Application We sincerely thank our supporters Executive Committee Officers: President: Tom O’Neal, Ph.D. Office of Partnerships and Innovation Immediate Past President: Issa Batarseh, Ph.D., College of Engineering and Computer Science President-Elect: TBD Vice President: TBD Treasurer: Terri Bigham, Research Foundation Immediate Past Treasurer: Kim Smith, Research Foundation Secretary: Julia Roberts, Office of Research Members at Large: Richard Blair, Ph.D., College of Sciences Nasser Kukut, Ph.D., College of Engineering and Computer Science Albert Manero, Ph.D., Limbitless Solutions Winston Schoenfeld, Ph.D., Florida Solar Energy Center Mubarak Shah, Ph.D., College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn How Tech Transfer Can Help You: Our Process IP Protection, Commercialization, and Terms Resources Federal, State, and UCF Resources Technology Locator Find Tech to License Licensing How We License our IP RESEARCHERS INDUSTRY ABOUT CONTACT SEARCH TECHNOLOGIES Search: Search UCF Office of Research | 12201 Research Parkway, Suite 501 | Orlando, FL 32826 Phone: 407.882.0340 | Fax: 407.823.3299