Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events For Journalists Social Media Tuck Launches Initiative on Workplace Inclusion Founded and led by faculty director and professor Ella Bell Smith, the new Tuck initiative will work to harness workplace inclusion to better the world through business. by Tuck Communications May 19, 2022 For 122 years, the Tuck School has confronted the most complex and challenging issues through research, teaching, and the application of ideas. One of the most pressing imperatives facing business organizations and broader society today is building workplaces that are truly inclusive—along lines including race, gender, and class—and thereby transforming organizations and the broader world. Today only four of the 500 CEOs of the Fortune 500 companies are Black. Only 29 of the 500 CEOs of the S&P 500 companies are women. The U.S. labor force today contains an estimated 70 million STARS, people who are skilled through alternative (i.e., non-college) routes, a group that encompasses 62 percent of Blacks, 55 percent of Hispanics, and 50 percent of non-Hispanic whites. “I know of no leader of any world-class organization who does not see workplace inclusion as central to their strategic success in the post-pandemic years ahead,” says Dean Matthew J. Slaughter. "And yet how best to address this imperative is far from fully known. Different organizations have pursued markedly different approaches to harnessing the potential of diversity, often with markedly different outcomes even amidst shared good intentions." To play a more prominent role in advancing this effort, Tuck is launching the Initiative on Workplace Inclusion. The founding faculty director for this new initiative is Professor of Business Administration Ella Bell Smith, a world-renowned expert on inclusivity in organizations. Bell Smith is a consultant to Fortune 100 and 500 companies and public institutions on the advancement of all women in the workplace, as well as issues related to authentic leadership for both men and women. For generations, the world has rightly called on academia to help meet its most urgent imperatives. By launching the Initiative on Workplace Inclusion, the Tuck School will once again answer this call in our distinct way—harnessing workplace inclusion to better the world through business. Matthew J. Slaughter The Initiative on Workplace Inclusion will convene thought leaders, practitioners, and students to identify, frame, and debate important topics. It will support research that can be disseminated among scholars, policymakers, and organizations—in particular, research to help overcome the foundational barrier of still-incomplete knowledge on how to build and maintain workplaces with greater racial, gender, and class inclusion. Affiliated faculty will contribute to the Initiative’s research, programming, and student engagement. These faculty will include tenure-track and clinical colleagues at Tuck, adjunct colleagues from across Dartmouth, and colleagues visiting from other schools and institutions. Tuck MBA students will be able to serve as Initiative associates and research assistants. Alumni and other wise, decisive leaders from around the world will be able to participate in events such as roundtables and conferences, and to inform and apply the ideas the Initiative will create through serving on an Initiative Advisory Council. Tuck staff will partner to ensure that the work of all involved is efficient, integrated, and empowering. Professor Ella Bell Smith, a world-renowned expert on inclusivity in organizations, is founder and faculty director of the new Initiative on Workplace Inclusion. In addition to teaching in Tuck’s MBA and executive education programs, Ella Bell Smith is founder and president of Ascent: Leading Global Women to the Top. The work of this Initiative has already begun. In May, T’22 student associates Lulu Carter and Ashley Barard organized and hosted a virtual roundtable, “Dreaming, Designing, and Building DE&I Spaces.” This roundtable brought together for a series of discussions leaders including Daisy Auger-Dominguez of VICE Medial; the Band of Sisters Co-Founders; Dawson Her Many Horses T'10 of Wells Fargo; Anne Clarke Wolff, David Leal T’10, Sebenza Nkomo T’07, and Dilan Gomih of Independence Point Advisors; and Tuck professors Stacy Blake-Beard and Adam Kleinbaum. Takeaways from this inaugural roundtable will be shared in the weeks ahead on this new Initiative website. “For generations, the world has rightly called on academia to help meet its most urgent imperatives,” says Slaughter. “By launching the Initiative on Workplace Inclusion, the Tuck School will once again answer this call in our distinct way—harnessing workplace inclusion to better the world through business.” You Might Also Like... Tuck Releases DEI Strategic Review and Action Plan Oct 12, 2021 The Tuck Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Strategic Review and Action Plan is based on a year-long process and review of community culture, curriculum, MBA student recruitment, employee hiring and retention, co-curricular activities, and more through the lens of diversity and inclusion. Inside the Intercultural Leadership Program at Tuck Apr 22, 2022 A conversation with Tuck Associate Director Vincent Mack, a longtime professional leadership coach who recently launched a new series of programming for students focused on race, equity, and leadership in the workplace. Contact Tuck Communications tuck.communications@tuck.dartmouth.edu Media inquiries eric.h.walters@tuck.dartmouth.edu About Tuck News features the latest stories about business research conducted by faculty members and business practitioners at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. Editorials penned by professors are published on the site, as well as regular school updates from Tuck staff writers regarding trends in business education. 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy