Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Area Lodging Favorite Places to Stay in Hanover and the Upper Valley On campus, in town, or in the country ... it's your choice. Hanover Inn The Hanover Inn has delighted Dartmouth visitors since 1903. Perched between campus and downtown Hanover, guests can easily walk to Tuck classes as well as local restaurants and shops. The 2012 renovation provides modern amenities and comfort. Elegant Pine Restaurant is among Hanover's finest. Learn more. Six South St Hotel Six South St offers a modern, stylish environment from which to experience Hanover and Dartmouth. The downtown location is adjacent to restaurants, specialty shops, and a movie theater. Learn more. Lyme Inn The Lyme Inn offers historic elegance and contemporary luxury. Located 10 miles north along the Connecticut River, this newly-renovated property has quintessential Upper Valley charm and is highly recommended as an alternative to staying in Hanover. Learn more. Norwich Inn The Norwich Inn is a historic, full-service Vermont country inn located in Norwich, near Dartmouth College, just across the river from Hanover, New Hampshire. An Inn has been on the Main Street site since 1797; the current Victorian Structure since 1890. This Dartmouth hotel is proud to offer 38 guest rooms, a Pub & Dining Room known as Jasper Murdock’s Alehouse and a Microbrewery featuring hand-crafted English Ales, sold only on site. Learn more. Marriott Residence Inn The Residence Inn Hanover Lebanon is the Upper Valley's only all Suites hotel. Located just minutes from Dartmouth College and directly across from Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, it is the preferred hotel for both business and leisure travelers. Learn More. Marriott Courtyard The new state-of-the-art lobby at Courtyard Hanover Lebanon provides greater flexibility and choices for our guests. This Hanover NH hotel features our new lobby with inviting, flexible spaces to work or relax in, free Wi-Fi throughout and easy access to the latest news, weather and airport conditions via our GoBoard™. Learn More. Element by Westin Located in New Hampshire's Upper Valley, Element Hanover – Lebanon is minutes to Dartmouth College and popular outdoor activites like skiing, hiking, and kayaking. Learn More. Other local lodging options Schedule Your Visit and Interview Visit FAQs Applying to Tuck Online Events Attend an Event Tuck Connections Admissions Home Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy