Programs TuckLAB: Energy TuckLAB: Entrepreneurship Partnerships Faculty Apply Tuck School of Busines Programs TuckLAB: Energy TuckLAB: Entrepreneurship Partnerships Faculty Apply Make your passions real-world ready. Open to Dartmouth undergraduates, TuckLAB is your opportunity to learn essential business skills, explore career paths, and gain hands-on experience. View program options Study what you care about, do what you love—and prepare for future career success. TuckLAB provides students from a variety of backgrounds and majors the business skills they need to leverage their liberal arts education in the competitive job market. TuckLAB's programs receive support from the Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship, the Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society the Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation, the Tuck School of Business, and Dartmouth College. Program Dates TuckLAB: Energy Sept. 24–Oct. 30, 2022 View the schedule The Energy application deadline has passed. Email tuck.lab@tuck.dartmouth.edu with questions. TuckLAB: Entrepreneurship April 1–May 7, 2023 (No programming on the weekend of April 8 and 9) The application will open in the fall. Programs Learn about TuckLAB's current program options, including upcoming session dates and deadlines. View programs Partnerships Central to TuckLAB's success is the involvement of several key partners across the Dartmouth campus. These centers and institutions work together to deliver quality, relevant experiential learning opportunities. See our partnerships Faculty Top faculty and industry thought leaders teach TuckLAB's programs. Meet these professors and learn about their varied fields of study. Meet our faculty I went into TuckLAB with a limited background in business and came out confident that I could thrive in a corporate environment. I enjoyed the frequent opportunities to collaborate and pitch my business ideas. I also built a network of Tuck affiliates and benefited greatly from their feedback. Peter Green D'21 TuckLAB provides students from a variety of backgrounds and majors the business skills they need to leverage their liberal arts education in the competitive job market. TuckLAB: Energy TuckLAB: Entrepreneurship Partnerships Faculty Apply