Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Directions Tuck is located on the Dartmouth College campus in Hanover, New Hampshire, near the intersection of Interstates 89 and 91. We're two hours by car from Boston, five hours from New York, and 3.5 hours from Montréal, Quebec. Hanover is located on the Connecticut River, which provides the border between New Hampshire and Vermont. Mapquest Address Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth College, 100 Tuck Hall, Hanover, NH 03755-9000 By Car From Boston and Points South Take I-93 north past the Manchester, N.H., toll booth to Concord, N.H. Take I-89 north to I-91 north to Exit 13 (Norwich, Vt. / Hanover, N.H.). Bear right off the exit ramp. Cross the bridge over the Connecticut River into New Hampshire. Continue up the hill on Wheelock Street to traffic light Pass through the traffic light (past the Hanover Inn on the right) and drive along the south side of the Dartmouth Green. Take the first left onto College Street and drive along the east side of the green. Take the first left onto Wentworth Street (past Baker Library on the right). At the end of the block, turn right onto North Main Street, then take the left onto Tuck Mall. The Tuck School is at the end of Tuck Mall and next to the Thayer School of Engineering. From New York City and Points South Take I-91 north from Hartford, Conn., to Exit 13 in Vermont (Norwich, Vt. / Hanover, N.H.). Bear right off exit ramp. Follow street directions above. From the West I-90 intersects I-91 in Springfield, Mass., and I-84 intersects I-91 in Hartford, Conn. From either point, take I-91 north to Vermont Exit 13 (Norwich, Vt. / Hanover, N.H.). Bear right off the exit ramp. Follow street directions above. From Montréal and Ottawa Take I-89 south in Vermont to I-91 north. Stay on I-91 to Exit 13 (Norwich, Vt. / Hanover, N.H.). Bear right off the exit ramp. Follow street directions above. From Québec Take I-91 south in Vermont to Exit 13 (Norwich, Vt. / Hanover, N.H.). Turn left at the end of the exit ramp. Follow street directions above. Parking On weekdays, visitors are encouraged to park in the college's Dewey Field lot (see parking map) and take the campus shuttle bus to and from Tuck. There are a limited number of spaces for visitors—and spaces reserved for those with disabilities—directly opposite Tuck Hall. By Air Manchester-Boston Regional Airport (Manchester, N.H.): About 80 miles southeast of Hanover. Rental cars are available. Follow signs to I-93 north, then follow the "By Car" directions from Boston, above. Burlington Airport (Burlington, VT): About 75 miles northwest of Hanover. Rental cars are available. Take I-89 south to I-91 north to Exit 13. Follow the street directions above. Logan Airport (Boston, MA): About 120 miles southeast of Hanover. Rental cars are available. From the airport, drive through the Callahan Tunnel, follow signs to I-93 north, then follow the "By Car" directions from Boston above. Dartmouth Coach provides bus transportation from Logan Airport and from Boston's South Station to the Hanover Inn on the Dartmouth campus. For more information, see directions below. Bradley International Field (Hartford, CT): About 150 miles, or 2-1/2 hours driving time, from campus. All rental car agencies are available as well as car service. Lebanon Airport: The Lebanon Airport offers daily service between Lebanon, N.H. and Boston via Cape Air. The airport is located about 10 miles from Hanover. Taxi service and rental cars are available. By Bus From Boston Dartmouth Coach offers daily service to the Hanover Inn from Boston's Logan Airport and South Station (1-800-637-0123). Greyhound provides service to the bus station in nearby White River Junction, Vt., about five miles from campus; taxi service is available. (1-800-231-2222). From New York City Dartmouth Coach offers luxury motorcoach service between the Yale Club in Midtown Manhattan and the Hanover Inn (one stop in Stamford, Conn.). (800-637-0123). Greyhound provides service to the bus station in nearby White River Junction, Vt., five miles from campus; taxi service is available. (800-231-2222). By Train Amtrak provides daily passenger service from Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and intermediate points to nearby White River Junction, Vt., which is about five miles from campus; taxi service is available. Local Bus Service Advance Transit is a local bus service that serves the Upper Valley region, including Hanover. All are welcome to ride the buses free of charge. Advance Transit also provides shuttle service around campus, including buses to and from remote parking lots. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy