Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Research /Health and Bioinnovation Health & Bioinnovation From its early beginning as a medical college with an emphasis on treating tropical illnesses, Tulane has long been a leader in health and bioinnovation. Today, more than 80% of our research grants are for health-related projects. Faculty in the medical fields collaborate with scholars in the sciences and engineering to develop technologies and devices to cure diseases and develop healthier communities. A recently renovated laboratory space gives researchers a state-of-the-art facility for collaboration on health and bioinnovation projects. Tulane research has led to discoveries like the connection between low testosterone and diabetes risk, the use of “nerve-on-a-chip” technology to study safer chemotherapy drugs, the development of a 15-minute test for Ebola and the role plants can play in oil spill clean-up. Current research projects include an investigation into the connection between oxygen in the brain and Alzheimer’s, a search for a more effective flu vaccine and a study of the way the brain processes the locations of sounds. And our new Brain Institute will combine under one umbrella expertise from the Schools of Medicine, Science and Engineering, Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Liberal Arts and the National Primate Research Center to expand and push neuroscience programs at Tulane to the next level. A spirit of design thinking and entrepreneurship is woven into the curriculum to prepare the next generation of innovators. Tulane doctoral student Nick Pashos developed a technology to help breast cancer survivors after undergoing reconstruction surgery. His company, BioAesthetics, won the $25,000 Women’s Health and Wellness Prize at the Rice Business Plan Competition. Our students have helped invent SafeSnip, a small, disposable plastic clamp that cuts, seals and disinfects an umbilical cord in one step, making childbirth safer in developing countries. A company started in Tulane University’s biomedical engineering department, developed Sensifoam, a device that adheres to patients during operations and transmits data to alert surgeons to the possibility of pressure ulcers, more commonly known as bedsores. And, one of our alumni developed Theodent, a chocolate-based toothpaste created from research he began as an undergraduate. Innovation even extends into the way we teach. The Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine is the first dedicated teaching kitchen in a medical school. Our future doctors receive hands-on training in healthy cooking techniques that they will share with their patients. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University