Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Destinations in NOLA Destinations in NOLA Situated in scenic uptown New Orleans, our students are right across the street from one of the city’s most beautiful parks. Audubon Park is a favorite with locals for its scenic live oaks, jogging track and golf course. The park is the perfect place to relax and take in a nice day. Another nearby green space is the Fly. Located behind the Audubon Zoo, the Fly overlooks the Mississippi River and is a great place for crawfish boils, barbecues or just a chance to escape the hustle and bustle of the city. New Orleans is also home to some of the most unique neighborhoods in the country. From the historic French Quarter to the beautiful homes uptown, there are no shortage of amazing neighborhoods to explore in the city. With some of the most noteworthy and recognized restaurants in the nation, NOLA is a foodie’s paradise. From legendary and long-established Commander’s Palace to award-winning Israeli restaurant Shaya, there is never a shortage of incredible restaurants to enjoy as a student at Tulane. Take in a view of the Mississippi River while eating beignets from Café du Monde, listen to incredible music in the French Quarter, visit an alligator hatchery or take a haunted history tour. At Tulane, one thing is for sure – you will never have a shortage of incredible things to do! Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University