Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Stronger TUgether /Health Strategy /COVID-19 Dashboard COVID-19 Dashboard Tulane’s Spring 2022 dashboard includes testing results beginning January 1, 2022 and is updated daily with the previous day’s testing results. The testing data from 2020-2021 are archived and available for viewing. Results from all testing conducted by Tulane’s Molecular Pathology Lab, including numbers of tests and positive results, is shared with the Louisiana Department of Health and is reflected in state and city reporting, however there is a lag in reporting between our dashboard and that of the city and state. Notes Participation in the testing program is required of all students, faculty, and staff. All unvaccinated individuals are required to test at least twice weekly. Through the surveillance testing program, a random sample of graduate, undergraduate, faculty, and staff who are vaccinated, will be tested at least twice a month. CDC guidance indicates that people can continue to test positive for up to three months after a diagnosis, therefore it is not Tulane’s practice to retest individuals within a three-month window of a positive test. However, there are occasionally instances of individuals receiving more than one positive test result within this timeframe. The Individuals Testing Positive data point eliminates duplicate positive tests and only counts those individuals who have tested positive multiple times within the three-month window once. Whereas, the Positive Tests data point includes all tests completed, regardless of whether there may have been multiple tests per individual. Currently, Tulane is aware of only a very small number of hospitalizations associated with our community. Because of privacy concerns, the university will not be disclosing information about hospitalizations. Data will not display if there is no testing data reported on that date. Dashboard Glossary ▾ Spring 2022 Surveillance Testing Spring semester testing data begins on January 1, 2022. Tests Completed The number of tests completed through the Tulane testing program for the time period indicated. Positive Tests The number of positive tests identified through the Tulane testing program for the time period indicated. All positive tests are represented in this count, including instances when an individual has received more than one positive test result since the start of the Tulane testing program. Employee numbers include faculty, staff and contract workers. Percent Testing Positive The percent of total positive tests identified out of total tests completed through the Tulane testing program since January 1, 2022. Individuals Testing Positive The number of individuals testing positive through the Tulane testing program for the time period indicated. Individuals who receive more than one positive test in the timeframe indicated are counted once. Per current CDC guidance, individuals who test positive should not be tested again for 90 days. Active Cases The total number of positive tests identified through the Tulane testing program over the most recent 5-day period. CDC guidelines indicate an active case is someone who is in their 5-day isolation period or has completed their 5-day isolation period but is still showing symptoms and therefore has their isolation period extended. Employee numbers include faculty, staff and contract workers. Daily Testing Graph A daily view of testing through Tulane’s testing program. Since the receipt of results are staggered within 48-hour periods and are often delivered from the lab in batches, it is best to view these numbers as trends. Testing for the fall semester began on January 1, 2022. Daily New Individuals Testing Positive The number of individuals testing positive for the first time through the Tulane testing program. Individuals who have received more than one positive test are counted once. Daily Tests The number of daily tests completed through the Tulane testing program during a specific 24-hour period. Daily Positive Tests The number of positive tests identified through the Tulane testing program during a specific 24-hour period. Percent of Positive Tests The percent of positive tests identified out of the daily tests completed through the Tulane testing program. 7-Day Average Percent Testing Positive Tulane The 7-day average of the percent of positive tests identified out of the daily tests completed through the Tulane testing program. Tulane reports all tests completed and positive cases to the Louisiana Department of Health. New Orleans and Louisiana Numbers as reported daily by the Louisiana Department of Health. COVID-19 Reporting If a student, faculty or staff member is confirmed positive, submit the COVID-19 Reporting Form to begin contact tracing immediately. COVID-19 Reporting Form Health Strategy Protocols are in place to help limit the spread of COVID-19. Every student, faculty and staff member shares in the responsibility to comply. How You Can Help Testing FAQs Tulane’s testing program helps to swiftly identify and isolate all positive individuals and to quarantine all close contacts to limit the spread of COVID-19. Learn About Testing Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University