Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Academics /Community Engagement Culture of Community Engagement Non sibi, sed suis: “Not for one’s self, but for one’s own.” As reflected in our motto, a spirit of community engagement has been a part of Tulane’s culture from its beginning. The ties between community engagement and education were cemented in 2006 when Tulane became the first major research university in the country to integrate public service into its core curriculum. Today Tulane is recognized as a leader in service learning and regularly tops rankings for participation in the Peace Corps and other measures of socially conscious graduates. Numerous community projects running throughout the year benefit the city, region, and world, as well as Tulane students themselves. Architecture students get hands-on experience with design and construction while improving a local neighborhood. Latin scholars spend time in New Orleans classrooms, honing their skills and educating the next generation. Students in the Himalayan Experience India Program travel to India and meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. These are just a few examples of how our students gain real-world experience and build leadership skills, all while making a difference. The Center for Public Service supports a university curriculum and research agenda by uniting academics and action, classroom and communities. The center pairs faculty with area partners to develop educational programs that benefit the local community. And the staff help students choose service programs that enhance their education and meet the public service graduation requirements. Prospective students who are active in their local communities may apply for the Community Service Fellowship during the admission process. Approximately 15 fellowships are awarded annually and these Community Service Fellows complete an average of 100 service and leadership hours each year. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University