Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search September 2019 political science A Global Citizen State of Mind Climate change, immigration, health care, poverty and racial discrimination are just some of the issues whose solutions require a broader, global understanding. Continue Reading Pioneers on Campus Tulane trailblazers are finally being recognized for their courage, tenacity and persistence in a number of ways — including the naming of campus buildings and programs in their honor. Continue Reading leadership Center of the Action The Newcomb Institute evolves in the 21st century, taking a prominent place in The Commons and carrying on Josephine Louise Newcomb’s vision for women’s education. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Video Kennis Htet, SLA '19 Video global Altman Scholars Video campus Reynald T. Décou, A7S '67, '79 Video campus Diedre Dumas Labat, NC '66, G '69 Video campus Carolyn Barber-Pierre Video campus The Commons Video campus Class of 2023 Move In Day Video public health Outbreak Video athletics First-Round Draft Pick Also In This Issue September 2019 View as PDF Issue Archive academics A Most Selective and Global Class Tulane’s acceptance rate was 13% for this fall’s entering undergraduate class. Continue Reading public health, nutrition, up first Planet-Friendly Diet Food production is an important contributor to climate change, accounting for about a quarter of carbon emissions globally. Continue Reading up first, global, energy Global Reach Protecting the planet is what Lisa Jackson is most passionate about. Continue Reading athletics, up first Player, a Giver and a Leader Christian Montano, a center for the Green Wave football team who transferred from Brown this year, will have a special fan in the stands for the Army game on Oct. 5 in West Point, New York. Continue Reading liberal arts, political science, economics, up first The Wisdom in the Room Before you are a global citizen you are a citizen of your own country — or state. Bobby Mannis (SLA ’18) is fulfilling his responsibilities as a citizen of the state of Illinois as he works on the front lines of democracy. Continue Reading President, global We Are the World Do you remember that song from 1985? It raised a lot of awareness and millions of dollars for famine-stricken countries. Continue Reading liberal arts, global, up first Global Education for Gen Z Brian T. Edwards, dean of the School of Liberal Arts, advocates for learning other languages. Continue Reading up first, campus, architecture Physical Places and Spaces Architecture Professor Errol Barron — in his signature watercolor drawings — and English major graduate Frankie Fachilla — in a very personal essay — are inspired by the Tulane Uptown campus. Continue Reading New Orleans, culture, up first Politics, Louisiana Style Angus Lind recalls colorful Louisiana politicians and other assorted characters, and a few memorable quotes from the state’s history. Continue Reading campus Beloved Bead Tree The original, beloved Bead Tree was removed from Tulane’s Uptown campus on May 14. Continue Reading research Epidemics Exhibit The important role that Tulane researchers have played in fighting infectious disease epidemics around the world was highlighted in “OutBreak: Epidemics in a Connected World,” an exhibit at the Diboll Gallery in the Tidewater Building from May–July. Continue Reading wavemakers, public health, medicine, trauma studies Tulane Alumni Couple Donates $5 Million for Presidential Chair Tulane University has received a $5 million commitment to fund a Presidential Chair from alumni Marcela Villareal de Panetta (NC ’67) and Bernard J. Panetta II (A&amp;S ’68). Continue Reading wavemakers, academics, athletics, campus ‘Graduated with Honors’ Wall Recognizes Student-Athletes The top academic achievers among Tulane student-athletes have received recognition on a wall in the James W. Wilson Intercollegiate Athletics Center. Continue Reading political science, history, entrepreneurship Bibi Gaston: Landscape Architect & Author Bibi Gaston’s (NC ’81) love of nature led her down one path: After Tulane, she studied landscape architecture at the University of Virginia. Continue Reading world Impression: David Berger When Gen. David Berger (E ’81) first entered the NROTC at Tulane, he didn’t know much about the program or the military. However, the years he spent in Tulane’s NROTC unit, he describes today as “formative,” crediting those years as a starting point for him. Continue Reading business, art, entrepreneurship Impression: Collin Ferguson Collin Ferguson (B ’04) considers the arts community to be the greatest natural resource that New Orleans possesses. Continue Reading wavemakers, interactive design, biomedical engineering, campus Makerspace Named in Honor of Donor, Alumnus The MakerSpace at Tulane University, which offers students and professors access to digital fabrication tools like 3D printers, laser cutters, milling machines and lathes as well as traditional hand and power tools, will be named the Scot Ackerman MakerSpace, thanks to a generous gift from Dr. Scot Ackerman (E ’78), a radiation oncologist and medical director of the Ackerman Cancer Center in Jacksonville, Florida. Continue Reading wavemakers, leadership, future Donor encourages giving with $1 million gift Warren G. Lichtenstein, founder and executive chairman of the global holdings company Steel Partners Holdings, has given a $1 million gift to spur first-time donors to support Only the Audacious, the campaign for an ever bolder Tulane. Continue Reading wavemakers, architecture, research, global $2 million gift to fund global architecture studios Tulane School of Architecture has received a $2 million gift to establish the Saul A. Mintz Global Research Studios, a new program that will give students an opportunity to work internationally on critical global issues. Continue Reading In Brief academics New Newcomb-Tulane College Dean Lee Skinner is the new dean of Newcomb-Tulane College, effective July 1. She also has joined the faculty of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. Skinner is a leading scholar of Latin American literature and was previously associate dean at Claremont McKenna College in California. visit https://tulane.it/newcomb-tulane-dean quoted Zachary Lazar, professor of English “They are, in a very concrete way, doing things and reading things that show them that they’re important, that their lives matter and that other people are paying attention to their lives,” Zachary Lazar said in The Creative Brain, a Netflix documentary, about a service-learning creative writing class he teaches to inmates at the Lafayette Parish Correctional Center. visit https://www.netflix.com/title/81090128 research New Vaccine Through joint efforts of Tulane, the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Army, a new vaccine has been developed that provides protection for the first time against equine encephalitic viruses in nonhuman primates. The encephalitic alphaviruses, spread by mosquitoes, are possible bioterrorism agents. visit https://tulane.it/new-vaccine research Katrina Recovery The National Institutes of Health named Mark VanLandingham, professor at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, the 12th Matilda White Riley Honors Distinguished Lecturer. VanLandingham was honored for his pioneering research on how culture and shared history helped the Vietnamese American community in New Orleans recover from Hurricane Katrina more quickly than other communities. visit https://tulane.it/katrina-recovery art Kohlmeyer Sculpture on Poydras The Poydras Corridor Sculpture Exhibition presented by the Helis Foundation features a sculpture by the late Ida Kohlmeyer (NC ’33, G ’56). The sculpture, Box of Artificial Flowers #6, is the largest sculpture Kohlmeyer created, standing at 17 feet tall and 14 feet wide. The Helis Foundation purchased the sculpture from a private collector in Chicago in 2018 and invested in the restoration of the piece. The sculpture now sits on the neutral ground of Poydras Street and Loyola Avenue. visit https://tulane.it/Kohlmeyer-sculpture-on-poydras athletics First-Round Draft Pick Tulane baseball third baseman Kody Hoese was selected by the Los Angeles Dodgers with the 25th pick in the first round of the 2019 Major League Baseball draft. Hoese is the 10th player in program history to be selected in the first round. He follows Shooter Hunt, who was selected 31st in the first round in 2008 by the Minnesota Twins. Hoese was the first of seven Tulane players drafted this year. The other players are Brendan Cellucci, Chase Solesky, Trevor Jensen, Kaleb Roper, Grant Mathews and Sal Gozzo. visit https://tulane.it/MLB-draft-picks-2019 quoted Felicia McCarren, professor of French and dance historian “By restricting ballet to pure romance, the art form loses its power to make critical commentary on the state of things.” Felicia McCarren, professor of French and dance historian, said in a New York Times article, “Is Ballet Camp?” visit https://tulane.it/Felicia-McCarren-nyt architecture Shotgun House Mural School of Architecture faculty members Carrie Norman and Adam Modesitt, along with their students, created an intricate mural as a part of the “Unframed” project of the Arts Council of New Orleans. The project includes five murals within walking distance of each other in the city’s Arts District. The mural by Norman, Modesitt and their students is a life-size architectural drawing of a mid-19th century shotgun house called “Open House.” The project’s goal is to bring vibrancy to New Orleans outside of gallery walls and was funded by a $175,000 grant from the Helis Foundation. visit https://tulane.it/shotgun-house-mural quoted Reggie Ferreira, director of Tulane’s Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy “The mental health system in the U.S. is broken and in times of disaster it’s even more on the back burner.” Reggie Ferreira, director of Tulane’s Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy, quoted in Rolling Stone on the impact climate change has on mental health. visit https://tulane.it/Reggie-Ferreira-rollingstone English Jesmyn Ward in Xavier Review The first book-length study of award-winning writer and Tulane English professor Jesmyn Ward has been published in Xavier Review. The 177-page publication celebrates Ward’s literary accomplishments with a collection of critical readings and scholarly responses. It includes Ward’s prologue to her memoir Men We Reaped, a chronology of her work and reviews of her publications. visit https://tulane.it/Jesmyn-Ward-xavier-review academics Sports Studies Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement, in collaboration with the university’s Center for Sport, announced its new online master’s degree and graduate certificates in sports studies. Students can receive graduate-level certifications in sport administration, sport coaching or sport security. visit https://tulane.it/sports-studies law Immigrants’ Rights Clinic Tulane Law School Dean David Meyer announced the school is launching a new Immigrants’ Rights Clinic. The law school has launched a national search for the director of the clinic and will begin enrolling students in fall 2020. It will enroll up to 15 students annually and provide about 3,200 hours of service through individual client representation and community consultations. visit https://tulane.it/immigrants-rights-clinic medicine Better Pain Medicine James Zadina, professor of medicine, and other researchers have developed a new kind of opioid, called ZH853, that accelerates the recovery time from pain and does not have the side effects morphine does. visit https://tulane.it/better-pain-medicine bioinnovation Esophageal Implant Techno As a part of Tulane’s Bioinnovation PhD program, Derek Dashti (SSE ’19) developed an organ regenerative implant technology designed to regenerate a patient’s damaged esophagus in an effort to treat esophageal cancer. The technology can also generate other damaged organs and tissue. He founded his startup, D & P Bioinnovations, to design and develop biomedical technologies and products. visit https://tulane.it/implant-technology quoted Tim Cook, CEO of Apple “We don’t build monuments to trolls. ... If you find yourself spending more time fighting than getting to work, stop and ask yourself who benefits from all the chaos.” Tim Cook, CEO of Apple and Tulane University Commencement speaker, on May 18, 2019. Cook reminded the graduates that “young people have changed history, time and time again.” visit https://tulane.it/Tim-Cook-quoted music Grammy Museum Grant The Hogan Jazz Archive of the Howard-Tilton Memorial Library has received a grant from the Grammy Museum to digitize and preserve unique recordings from Vernon Winslow (G ’69), the first African American disc jockey in New Orleans. Winslow (1911-1993) is best remembered for his pioneering work as “Dr. Daddy-O” on WWEZ radio. Once digitized, the recordings will be accessible to the public online. visit https://tulane.it/grammy-museum-grant research Lyme Disease Treatment Geetha Parthasarathy, a research scientist at the Tulane National Primate Research Center, has been awarded a $100,000 grant to investigate the use of supplemental therapeutics for the treatment of tick-borne Lyme neuroborreliosis, a nervous system disorder affecting the central and peripheral nervous systems. Lyme disease is the fastest-growing infectious disease in the nation, newly infecting 300,000 individuals yearly. visit https://tulane.it/lyme-disease-treatment history Refugee Camps in America Jana Lipman, associate professor of history, wrote “Detaining Migrant Children at U.S. Military Bases Has Been Done Before,” in TIME in June. Lipman has conducted research on refugee camps in America that reveals that the U.S. government has repeatedly turned to military bases to shelter immigrants. “At different times throughout the 20th century, the federal government kept groups of people from Hungary, Vietnam, Cuba and Haiti on U.S. military bases. The result can be either efficient immigration processing or a prolonged, confined and traumatic experience,” said Lipman. visit https://tulane.it/refugee-camps-time sociology Venezuela Talks David Smilde, Charles A. and Leo M. Favrot Professor of Human Relations in the Department of Sociology, co-wrote “Negotiating Venezuela’s Transition,” an opinion piece in The New York Times about Venezuela’s current political conflict and preliminary talks between the democratic opposition and the country’s government that took place in May. Smilde wrote that it is a first step toward a democratic transition. “Many remain skeptical of ‘dialogue,’ but negotiation and compromise between the conflicting parties is key. To explore whether such compromises can be achieved requires creating space and other conditions for discreet conversations, even while confrontations between the incumbent regime and the opposition continue.” visit https://tulane.it/venezuela-talks-nyt academics New Vice President for Research Dr. Giovanni Piedimonte has been named Tulane’s new vice president for research, effective Sept. 3. He also will join the pediatrics faculty in the medical school. Piedimonte was previously the Steven and Nancy Calabrese Endowed Chair for Excellence in Pediatric Care, Research and Education at the Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University. visit https://tulane.it/new-vice-president-research academics Teaming up Students from the A. B. Freeman School of Business worked with the New Orleans Pelicans to study data to determine what influences attendance at Pelicans games. Students examined dates and times of potential games at the Smoothie King Center for the 2019–20 season. The analytics will be used by the Pelicans as the team collaborates with the NBA to solidify an official game schedule. The students who participated in the semester-long project are enrolled in Tulane’s Master of Business Analytics program. visit https://tulane.it/teaming-up Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008