Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Campus Life /Technology Technology It’s pretty hard to make it through college without using a computer and a printer every day. Tulane offers a variety of resources and support for all your technology needs. Information Technology staff will be on hand at Move-In to ensure your anti-virus software is up-to-date and will connect you to campus wifi. Free or discounted software is available to Tulane students for academic use. Technology Services maintains a Knowledge Base with commonly requested instructions and troubleshooting tips. If you can’t find a solution there or would just prefer to talk with a person directly, the Technical Support and Network Operations Center staff are available to provide personal technical support. You can contact them by phone, email or online via live chat or the issue tracking system. The Technology Connection shop offers computers, software and accessories right on campus. Visit the shop to play with new devices and test out products from Apple, Dell and other popular brands. Some of our schools have special computer requirements and standards for their students so check with the shop or your school’s technology department to see what you will need. If you don’t bring your own computer or need a special software program or device, Tulane’s computer labs are available. Each of the labs has current computers, high-resolution laser printers, a full array of software and high-speed network connections. Some locations have other specialized equipment commonly needed by students working in those areas. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University