Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Research /Global Studies Global Studies Tulane faculty study and teach in many countries around the world with a concentration in the Gulf region, Latin America and Africa. We have 11 endowed chairs in Caribbean and Latin American studies alone and our faculty investigate wide-ranging topics like health, economics and music. We also have world-class collections and archives, including the Latin American Library, the Middle American Research Institute (MARI) collection, the Roger Thayer Stone Center for Latin American Studies and the Hogan Jazz Archive. Over 70 core faculty and 35 affiliated faculty in schools and departments across the university specialize in Latin American studies. Their activities range from studying beliefs about corruption in Costa Rica, to investigating Marxism in Mexico, to using lasers to discover dozens of ancient Mayan cities in northern Guatamala. Tulane is working in over 30 African nations, covering HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, malaria research and control, public health policy reform, family planning and more. Our researchers have played a major role in combating Ebola and have investigated whether a blood test can differentiate between Zika and dengue fever. Closer to home, the New Orleans Center for the Gulf South explores the region’s culture and its interconnections with Africa, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. The center’s Music Rising website preserves and promotes the region’s music and provides resources for musical scholars of all ages. And our scientists contributed to a national report on the Gulf Coast. Travel Support Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University