Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Our Core Values Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Tulane University’s Core Values /Our Core Values /Inclusive Community Inclusive Community An inclusive community supports an environment of equity, diversity, compassion, respect, and opportunity. We strive to make Tulane a more supportive home for all, and we must be open-hearted and willing to learn from past mistakes to build a better tomorrow. We create living, learning, and work environments where we take active steps wherever possible to reduce inequities experienced by our community members who are underrepresented and underserved. We have a shared destiny, common humanity, and a better future that we can only reach by working together. Diversity is a hallmark of a great university committed to creating a more equitable and inclusive future. This is the university Tulane aspires to be. Recognizing Research that Addresses Societal Inequities and Promotes Social Change The recipients of the Award for Excellence in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion — selected by Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost Robin Forman — were Elisabeth McMahon, Brigham Walker, Robert St. Martin Westley, and the Albert and Tina Small Center for Collaborative Design, represented by Ann Yoachim, director and professor of practice; Rashidah Williams, former assistant director of operations; Jose Cotto, adjunct lecturer; Nick Jenisch, adjunct lecturer; and Emilie Taylor Welty, Favrot II professor of practice and design/build manager. Grant Awarded for Trans Resilience Project Manuel A. Ocasio of the School of Medicine and Jasper J. Privat of the Tulane Counseling Center were awarded a Center for Public Service grant of $10,000 for their project “Community Care Is Our Own Salvation: Community-Based Resilience and Healing for Trans Communities Surviving Natural Disasters in Louisiana.” The project aims to leverage and strengthen an existing partnership with a community partner, TIDAL, a trans-led coalition of community members, healthcare providers, students and teachers in the Gulf South. Celebrating Black Alumni Tulane Law has named one award after former Law Dean John Kramer and former Associate Dean Robert Clayton, and another for law alumnus and trailblazer Wayne Lee (L'74). A third award will honor the emerging leadership skills of a recent graduate. Sawyer Seminars Launch First Events Tulane launched the Mellon Foundation-sponsored Sawyer Seminar, Sites of Memory: New Orleans and Place-based Histories in the Americas, which takes New Orleans as a key case study for a broader understanding of settler-colonial, formerly slavery-fueled economies in the Americas using the theme of site-based public history and memorialization. Additional events in the Sawyer Seminar, exploring a variety of sites and themes will continue to take place in 2022. Carolyn Barber-Pierre Recognized for Service At the official dedication of the Carolyn Barber-Pierre Center for Intercultural Life on Friday, Nov. 12, faculty and staff, students, alumni, and family and friends gathered to honor the woman who is considered to be a champion for diversity at Tulane. In her almost four decades of service to the university and its students, Assistant Vice President for Students Affairs and Intercultural Life Carolyn Barber-Pierre has touched the lives of many Tulanians. Carolyn Barber-Pierre Center for Intercultural Life, Center for Academic Equity celebrate new location Tulane Trailblazers The story of Tulane University would not be complete without the contributions of the many important people from diverse backgrounds who have made a substantial and lasting impact on our campus. A Strategy for Tomorrow A Strategy for Tomorrow is a university-wide strategic planning process to guide our equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) and anti-racism initiatives and track our progress from July 1, 2022 through July 1, 2027. QUICK LINKS Home Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University