Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Our Core Values Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Tulane University’s Core Values /Our Core Values /Collaborative Engagement Collaborative Engagement Tulane is rooted in the idea that looking outwards leads to impactful, real-world solutions that make a difference in the lives of others. Our contributions to society are evident in the lives we transform and problems we solve. We are driven by knowing all of the good we can accomplish with integrity, freedom of expression, partnership and engagement with our community, our region and our world. National Health Equity Research Learning Collaborative The School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine will launch a national learning collaborative to inform and harmonize research to advance solutions toward health equity. The collaborative, known as Partners for Advancing Health Equity (P4HE Collaborative), will bring together leading national public health scholars, philanthropic foundations, federal research funders, community members and private sector representatives. The group will work to better understand the latest issues related to attaining health equity and create consistency, processes, guidance and priorities in research to address obstacles to health equity. Book Fest brings literary luminaries to Tulane The inaugural three-day festival featured readings, panel discussions, symposia and keynote speeches from national and local authors. It provided an opportunity for authors and readers to interact with each other in one of the most vibrant and culturally diverse cities in the world. Thousands of readers flocked to campus March 10-12 to enjoy the words, wit and wisdom of bestselling local and national authors as well as scholars from across the widest spectrum of genres. Center for Youth Equity The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has awarded Tulane University a five-year grant to establish the Center for Youth Equity, a hub for youth violence prevention work using a multidisciplinary, culturally responsive approach rooted in equity and community engagement. The New Orleans Center for Youth Equity (CYE) is the first CDC-funded National Center of Excellence in Youth Violence Prevention in the Gulf South and one of only five in the country. Three New Multidisciplinary Research Centers of Excellence Tulane University will fund three new multidisciplinary Research Centers of Excellence focused on personalized medicine, sex differences in medicine and emerging infectious diseases — all distinct research challenges relevant to the COVID-19 pandemic. The centers are a new effort launched by the Office of Research to mobilize investigators from different fields of study across the university to focus on specific, complex research challenges facing society. Expanding Community-engaged Humanities Program Thanks to a new $1.5 million grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Tulane Mellon Graduate Program in Community-Engaged Scholarship based at the School of Liberal Arts is set to widen its scope to include undergraduates, new community relationships through more public events and more groundbreaking work on a national level. “Learning through multidisciplinary collaborations and engagement with community leaders and culture bearers is central to the Tulane experience and is the Mellon program’s primary goal." – PRESIDENT MICHAEL A. FITTS QUICK LINKS Home Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University