Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Research at Tulane Attracting the most innovative thinkers to Tulane—world-class faculty and graduate and undergraduate students—and combining our intellectual muscle with an entrepreneurial mindset will position the university to help solve some of society’s most complex challenges. Research here isn’t just the province of graduate students or faculty: Undergraduate research is an important part of the Tulane experience, and grants are available to help students cover the cost of research materials, travel and other expenses. Once these talented individuals are on campus, they are well-positioned to make the breakthroughs in research that today are made across the boundaries of schools, colleges and institutes. Best-selling author and Tulane board member Walter Isaacson had it right when he wrote in his book The Innovators that the next advances “will come from people who are able to link beauty to engineering, humanity to technology and poetry to processors.” The university is a member of the prestigious Association of American Universities, a select group of the 62 leading research universities in the United States and Canada with “preeminent programs of graduate and professional education and scholarly research.” Tulane also is ranked by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching as a university with “very high research activity.” Of more than 4,300 higher educational institutions rated by the foundation, Tulane remains in a prestigious category that includes only 2 percent of universities nationwide.  Research in Real Time Health & Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy & Resilience Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research Network Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research Journal How Tulane Research Impacts the World Tulane researchers study how Hurricane Michael affected pregnant mothers Quick View Study shows Maya civilization decimated by massive, fiery war Quick View Researchers identify new species of pocket shark Quick View Tulane researcher awarded $2.4 million to study stem cell treatment for stroke Quick View View Tulane News Tulane researchers study how Hurricane Michael affected pregnant mothers Hurricane Michael, a Category 5 storm, hit the Florida Panhandle in October of 2018. Now researchers at Tulane University are part of a new study to see how the disaster and its aftermath impacted pregnant women. Emily Harville, associate professor of epidemiology at Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, is leading a team of investigators that includes Dr. Maureen Lichtveld, professor and Freeport McMoRan Chair of Environmental Policy, along with researchers from Florida State University. The research is funded by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. Read Full Story Study shows Maya civilization decimated by massive, fiery war A Tulane University anthropologist is among a team of researchers who have uncovered evidence of extreme and violent warfare leading to widespread destruction of a Maya civilization nearly 1,500 years ago. Read Full Story Researchers identify new species of pocket shark A team of researchers, including two from Tulane University, has identified a new species of pocket shark, following careful study of a pocket shark that made international headlines in 2015 after it was brought to the Royal D. Suttkus Fish Collection at the Tulane University Biodiversity Research Institute. Read Full Story Tulane researcher awarded $2.4 million to study stem cell treatment for stroke Jean-Pyo Lee, PhD, assistant professor of physiology in the Tulane School of Medicine, was recently awarded a five-year, $2.4 million grant from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke to study the use of neural stem cells in treating stroke. Read Full Story Creating these connections is one of Tulane’s greatest strengths. It’s not an overstatement to say we are creating a new model for interdisciplinary collaboration in higher education that will bring our research to new heights in several critical areas, including the culture of the Gulf South, energy and the environment, water management and climate change, healthy communities, trauma and resilience. Some of this exciting research will take place on Tulane’s newest facility, the ByWater Institute. Located on the Mississippi River where a modern infrastructure will advance timely research in many of the areas mentioned above, plus coastal restoration and management, and sustainable communities. The campus will also help transform New Orleans into a leading hub for green jobs and technologies. Research at Tulane is where unlimited opportunity awaits to make the world a better place. Tulane University awarded $11.4M to turn discoveries into cures The National Institutes of Health awarded Tulane University an $11.4 million grant to develop clinical research scientists who study patients with high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes and related conditions. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University