Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search March 2019 research Life and Survival on the Gulf Coast During this era of rapid climate change and other environmental stresses, community ecologists are focused on understanding how the living world works, in all its complexity and diversity, as they find ways that species might thrive and land can be restored.Continue Reading academics Challenge Accepted With a focus on enhancing the undergraduate experience, Tulane encourages students to challenge themselves. Continue Reading mathematics Pure Math Legendary math professor Lisa Fauci is a pioneer in math modeling, an award-winning scholar and a mentor to graduate students working at the interface of math, scientific computing and basic biology. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Video neuroscience Mostafa Meselhe Video digital media Hailey Mozzachio Video psychology Raven Ancar Video campus Tim Cook to Speak at Commencement Video campus Values in America Video ecology Sunshine Van Bael Lab Also In This Issue March 2019 View as PDF Issue Archive aging studies, geriatrics, medicine, neuroscience, surgery Adding Life to Years Tulane researchers are uncovering the science behind aging and learning how to add life to additional years. Continue Reading political science Throwback Commencement When President George H.W. Bush died on Nov. 30, 2018, among all the accolades and tributes, a special memory of his connection to Tulane stood out. Continue Reading law, tulanians Brian Distance: Attorney & Actor The events of Sept. 11, 2001, prompted Brian Distance (L ’91), who was then working on Wall Street as a financial attorney, to pursue his dream career: actor. Continue Reading Jewish studies, liberal arts, sociology, tulanians Impression: Kendall & Libby Glazer A hobby shared by sisters Kendall Glazer (SLA ’13) and Libby Glazer (SLA ’15), which began in a Tulane residence hall, has grown into a lucrative business that combines fashion with messages of positivity. Continue Reading medicine, public health, tulanians Impression: Debra Houry Many doctors train to become emergency room physicians, hoping to save lives. But serving in this role for Debra Houry (M ’98, PHTM ’98) wasn’t enough. She wanted to help stop injuries before they ever happen. Continue Reading communication, liberal arts Tulane Student Wins Oscar Avery Siegel, a Tulane student majoring in communication with a minor in public health, can add the title “Oscar winner” to her resume. Continue Reading biomedical engineering, ecology, entrepreneurship, President, research We’re on It If there is an ecosystem that is threatened, a population in peril, a subject matter unexplored, a discovery yet to be made, a cure to be found — somebody at Tulane is working on it. That’s just what we do. Continue Reading business, law, liberal arts, Spanish, up first Tulanians’ Impact The Advocate and The Times-Picayune celebrated the tricentennial of New Orleans with series focused on events and people, including many Tulanians — from artists and writers to civic leaders, politicians and business people — who have made their mark. Continue Reading athletics, sports, up first 500 (and Counting) Games Won [Video] When Lisa Stockton took over as head coach of the Tulane University women’s basketball team back in 1994, it was never with the idea that she would become a true New Orleanian. Continue Reading biomedical engineering, up first Innovation in Orbit When Elaine Horn-Ranney (SSE ’08, ’13) and Parastoo Khoshakhlagh (SSE ’13, ’15) were pursuing their doctorates in biomedical engineering, they came up with an idea for a gel-based patch — Perf-Fix — to help physicians repair damaged eardrums without surgery. They were determined to take the technology as far as they could go. Continue Reading architecture, up first Design for Change Associate Professor of Architecture Margarita Jover recently won an international design competition in Buenos Aires, Argentina, for her proposal, “Vertebrando,” a reimagining of the space and use of a 1.3-mile section of elevated highway, which has bisected a historically poor and underserved community for decades. Continue Reading art, New Orleans, up first Dining with Healthy Gusto With Mardi Gras in the rearview mirror and Lent— generally appreciated even by non-Catholics — upon us in this very Catholic city, into my head popped a quirky question: What do people who eat for a living do during Lent? Continue Reading art, New Orleans, up first Making the Invisible Visible A song with simple yet powerful lyrics plays over the speakers in the galleries of the Newcomb Art Museum: You can’t keep a ray of light from creeping in your room / you can’t fix a lie from shining down the truth / I’m not invisible anymore. Musician Lynn Drury’s words sum up the essence of Newcomb Art Museum’s new exhibition in that one prevailing line — I’m not invisible anymore. Continue Reading architecture, opinion, up first The Vietnam Conflict and My Path to a Tulane Education My experience at Tulane was amazingly unique, as I saw both sides of the Vietnam War coin. I had been wounded in combat alongside tough, courageous Marines. Twenty months later, I was at Tulane among America’s elite and privileged youth, witnessing the weekly protests against the war. Looking back, each experience was equally invaluable toward my maturity. Continue Reading academics, law, social innovation, wavemakers Board Member Phyllis M. Taylor Donates $5 Million for Presidential Chair The Patrick F. Taylor Foundation has committed $5 million for the funding of a Presidential Chair. Foundation chairman and president Phyllis M. Taylor (L ’66) is a member of the Board of Tulane and a graduate of Tulane Law School. Continue Reading medicine, orthopedics, wavemakers Rodriguez Honored as Inaugural Phillips Orthopaedics Professor Dr. Raoul P. Rodriguez (M ’60), a foot and ankle specialist who has been with the Department of Orthopaedics since 1965, was invested as the inaugural holder of the Pierrette and John G. Phillips Professorship in Orthopaedics at the School of Medicine in November. Continue Reading athletics, campus, sports, wavemakers Fogelmans Establish Program for Men’s Basketball Players Avron B. Fogelman (A&amp;S ’62) and Wendy Mimeles Fogelman (NC ’63), previous contributors to men’s basketball, have given another $1 million to support the program. Continue Reading academics, business, liberal arts, wavemakers Boudreauxs Give $3.5 Million for Finance, Writing Programs Tulane’s A. B. Freeman School of Business and the School of Liberal Arts are the beneficiaries of a new $3.5 million gift from Carole B. (NC ’65) and Kenneth J. Boudreaux (B ’67). Continue Reading In Brief business Alumni Faculty Award Peter Ricchiuti, a longtime A. B. Freeman School of Business professor, is the first recipient of the Tulane Alumni Association award that recognizes a distinguished faculty member who continually engages alumni with the university. visit http://tulane.it/alumni-faculty-award-Ricchiuti campus Chinese Students Visit Twenty-five Chinese students from Xiangtan University in Hunan Province visited Tulane Law School in January as part of a faculty and student exchange. The visit was a result of a collaboration between Xiangtan and Tulane that established the Tulane-Yongxiong Center for International Credit Law last fall. visit http://tulane.it/chinese-students-visit architecture Skate Park Project The national Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture named the School of Architecture’s Albert and Tina Small Center for Collaborative Design one of only four recipients of its Collaborative Practice Award for 2018–19. The award highlights the Small Center’s 13 years of design-build projects and engagement programs, in particular the Parasite Skatepark project, a New Orleans park that officially opened in 2015 following years of efforts by local skaters to establish a recreation space. visit http://tulane.it/skatepark-project epidemiology Patricia Kissinger, professor of epidemiology and infectious diseases “The addiction takes over." Patricia Kissinger, quoted in the Los Angeles Times article, “Two crises in one: As drug use rises, so does syphilis.” Kissinger is a professor of epidemiology and infectious disease at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. visit http://tulane.it/Patricia-Kissinger-latimes anthropology Excavation in Peru Professor of Anthropology John Verano’s excavation of the site of a 500-year-old mass child sacrifice that took place on the northern coast of Peru is featured in the February National Geographic magazine. The article, “An Unthinkable Sacrifice,” provides details about the findings, including how some of the children were killed, how they were buried and the growing number of skeletons recovered from ongoing excavations. Verano and Gabriel Prieto of the Universidad Nacional de Trujillo along with a team of students from their respective universities have been working at the Huanchaquito site since 2011 when children playing in the sand dunes found human bones scattered over the surface. visit http://tulane.it/excavation-in-peru medicine Reducing Cervical Cancer rates Dr. Jessica Shank, associate professor of gynecologic oncology at the School of Medicine, is on a mission to raise awareness that cervical cancer is preventable. “This is a cancer that can be prevented with regular Pap smear screening and the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine,” she said. visit http://tulane.it/reducing-cervical-cancer-rates immunology Ricin Treatment A new study at the Tulane National Primate Research Center showed for the first time that an experimental drug can save nonhuman primates exposed to deadly ricin toxin, a potential bioterrorism agent. visit http://tulane.it/ricin-treatment quoted Gabe Feldman, sports law professor “I think any system that removes egregious human error from the game could work.” Gabe Feldman, sports law professor, talking about the potential need for more video replays during NFL games after the infamous no call for pass interference in the Saints vs. Rams NFC Championship. visit http://tulane.it/Gabe-Feldman-wwltv political science The Court and Alcohol “I liked beer. I still like beer.” Long before Judge Brett Kavanaugh uttered these infamous words during confirmation hearings for his appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court in September, alcoholic beverages were a part of the life and work of the justices of the Supreme Court. In her new book, Glass and Gavel: The U.S. Supreme Court and Alcohol, Nancy Maveety, professor and chair of political science, discusses how the justices have participated in both the enjoyment and the restriction of beverage alcohol throughout our country’s history. visit http://tulane.it/the-court-and-alcohol dermatology Got chapped lips? As reported in Live Science, lip balms for dry, chapped lips provide only temporary comfort, and some types can make scaly lips even drier. That’s because, in part, when the thin film of moisture from the lip balm evaporates, it dehydrates your lips even more. “It starts a vicious cycle,” said Dr. Leah Jacob, an assistant professor of dermatology in the School of Medicine. visit http://tulane.it/got-chapped-lips community health Planetary Health Diet After analyzing the diets of 16,000 Americans, researchers led by Diego Rose, professor of public health, found that preparing meals with a small carbon footprint is as simple as using less animal protein. “People whose diets had a lower carbon footprint were eating less red meat and dairy — which contribute to a larger share of greenhouse gas emissions and are high in saturated fat — and consuming more healthful foods like poultry, whole grains and plant-based proteins,” he said. visit http://tulane.it/planetary-health-diet biochemistry Tracking Peptides in Cell Soup William C. Wimley, professor of biochemistry in the School of Medicine, is making soup, but not the kind you’d probably like to sip. In his lab, in a cell soup, he’s synthesizing peptides in order to create ones with therapeutic potential, particularly as smart-delivery systems to deliver drugs that have shown promise against microbes known as “superbugs.” Wimley’s work is supported by the National Institutes of Health and was recognized in the NIH Director’s Blog. visit http://tulane.it/peptides-in-cell-soup English Jesmyn Ward, Creative Writing Professor “They come to me because they have been lost to history.” Jesmyn Ward, creative writing professor, in The New York Times, talking about her characters in her award-winning novels — like Esch in Salvage the Bones (2011) and Jojo in Sing, Unburied, Sing (2017). visit http://tulane.it/Jesmyn-Ward-nyt ecology The Wonder of Birds Bruce Fleury, a professor in Tulane’s Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, has plenty to say about birds — so much so that he’s developed a 12-part lecture series that even the most novice bird-watcher will find both insightful and entertaining. visit http://tulane.it/wonder-of-birds earth science Seas Rising In a CNN report on the $48 million federal project to move families from Isle de Jean Charles, Louisiana, where the Gulf of Mexico is inundating homes, Torbjörn Törnqvist, professor and chair of earth and environmental science, said that one day it won’t be villages thinking of relocation, it will be cities. “The reality is that there are other, even larger cities that may actually be even more vulnerable, like Miami, for example.” visit http://tulane.it/seas-rising homeland security Top Online Programs The HOMELAND SECURITY program offered online by the School of Professional Advancement and the online SOCIAL WORK MASTER'S PROGRAM in the School of Social Work have been named top master’s programs by OnlineMasters.com. visit tulane.it/online-homeland-security law Law Clinics Celebrate 40 Years Legal clinics for skills-based training began at Tulane Law School in 1978. They are now a hallmark of Tulane’s legal education program. Forty years ago, Tulane was one of the few law schools to venture into using live-client experience through clinics and practice simulations, rather than a case book, to teach advocacy skills. The clinics now include Civil Rights & Federal Practices, Criminal Justice, Domestic Violence, Environmental Law, Juvenile Law, and Legislative & Administrative Advocacy. Over the years, clinic graduates have gone on to hold public office, serve as members of the judiciary, manage law firms and lead public interest organizations. visit tulane.it/law-clinics-celebrate-40-years architecture Architecture Faculty Member Honored Marianne Desmarais, School of Architecture professor of practice and director of undergraduate architecture programs, has been named an Artist-in-Residence for 2019 at the Joan Mitchell Center in the historic Treme neighborhood in New Orleans. A residency, Desmarais said, changes not only an artist’s work but the artist themselves. “The experience of an art residency feels simultaneously like time sped up and time slowed down.” visit business Stewart Center CBD In January, the A. B. Freeman School of Business began offering classes in downtown New Orleans at the Stewart Center CBD, located at the corner of Howard Avenue and Carondelet Street. The 21,000-square-foot space houses the Stewart Center for Executive Education, which includes Freeman’s executive MBA program and custom, non-degree programs for professionals, the Goldring Institute for International Business and a newly launched program in Entrepreneurial Hospitality. visit tulane.it/Stewart-center-cbd Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008