Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Stronger TUgether /Health Strategy /Testing & Tracing Testing & Tracing Last Updated: May 25, 2022 The purpose of Tulane’s comprehensive and ongoing testing program is to swiftly identify and isolate all positive individuals and to quarantine all close contacts to contain the potential spread of COVID-19. As we enter a new phase of COVID-19 requirements we will continue to require testing for students, faculty and staff during Fall 2021. The test uses a RT-PCR method approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). The test is performed by the Molecular Pathology Laboratory at the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine of Tulane University School of Medicine. The laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) and accredited by the College of American Pathologists (CAP) to perform high-complexity testing. Results from all testing conducted by Tulane’s Molecular Pathology Lab, including numbers of tests and positive results, is shared with the Louisiana Department of Health, and is reflected in state and city reporting. About Testing Types of Testing Testing Centers Testing Frequency Contact Tracing Quarantine & Isolation Testing FAQs About Testing Summer 2022 We will continue to require testing for students, faculty and staff during Summer 2022. Testing will be scheduled through email prompts, which all Tulane students, faculty and staff should be receiving. Testing is conducted at the Tulane Testing Center Uptown (Phelps) and Downtown (LaSalle). Schedule your test on the Patient Portal when you receive a notification email. Test results will be returned within 48 hours. You will receive an email and/or phone call with your results. Do not call or email Campus Health to schedule testing. For questions about testing, email CHTestResults@wave.tulane.edu. back to top Types of Testing Asymptomatic Surveillance Testing This testing program is administered through the Tulane Testing Centers. The Testing Centers are for asymptomatic surveillance testing – not for testing symptomatic individuals or those who believe they have come in close contact with someone who is positive. Do not call or email Campus Health to schedule asymptomatic testing. Symptomatic Testing If you are a student who is experiencing symptoms, you should schedule a telehealth visit through the Campus Health Patient Portal or contact your healthcare provider. If you are an employee who is experiencing symptoms, you should contact the Living Well Clinic or your primary care provider. back to top Tulane Testing Centers Tulane has two Testing Centers to screen asymptomatic individuals (people without symptoms of COVID-19). The centers do not allow drop-in testing for those who are experiencing symptoms or who may have been exposed. Do not visit a testing center without scheduling first. Appointments are required for safety purposes — schedules allow for social distancing and to manage flow and wait times. Emails are sent from no-reply@lablynx.com to prompt test scheduling. Please do not visit a campus testing center before receiving a scheduling notice. Do not call or email Campus Health to schedule asymptomatic testing. If you are student and are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, you should schedule a telehealth visit through the Campus Health Patient Portal or contact your healthcare provider. If you are an employee who is experiencing symptoms, you should contact the Living Well Clinic or your healthcare provider. For questions about testing, email CHTestResults@wave.tulane.edu. Locations Phelps Hall — 27 McAlister Place Downtown/LaSalle 226 South Villere Street, next to Tulane Hospital’s LaSalle Garage exit back to top Testing Frequency Summer 2022 Through our surveillance testing program, a random sample of faculty, staff, undergraduate, graduate and professional students are being notified to test weekly. With random sampling, it is possible you will be asked to test often. Such testing, which is invaluable in keeping our community safe, requires a random sample from our population. We appreciate your cooperation and ask that you not email or call to complain about your being chosen to test. Be sure to report any positive test result through the COVID-19 Reporting Form. This will remove you from the COVID testing program for 90 days. Important Facts Test schedule is subject to change. Please check this page for updates. Please monitor your email and schedule your testing when you receive your notice. Please do not visit a campus testing center before receiving a scheduling notice/QR Code. If you do not have an active order (QR code) to get tested, you will be turned away from the testing center. Be sure to complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form if you receive a positive test result from an outside healthcare provider and not through Tulane. Individuals who have tested positive are not to be tested for 90 days. If you receive a notice, please contact CHTestResults@tulane.edu for assistance. For questions about testing, email CHTestResults@tulane.edu. Current COVID-19 Vaccine information is available here. back to top Contact Tracing Tulane’s contact tracing protocols are guided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and local public health agencies and utilize the Johns Hopkins model. The goal of contact tracing is to swiftly identify close contacts to those who have tested positive with COVID-19 to prevent transmission. If a member of the Tulane community tests positive for COVID-19 at a Tulane Testing Center, the Student Health Center or the Living Well Clinic, they will be contacted by a Tulane Contact Tracer. Tulane Contact Tracers will interview the COVID-19 positive person to identify close contacts, help monitor symptoms and provide resources to support isolation. If a member of the Tulane community receives notice of a positive result from an outside healthcare provider, they must complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form so that contact tracing can be implemented. Employees should immediately notify their supervisor. If an employee is unable to complete the form due to illness, a supervisor can complete it on their behalf. Additional resources may be triggered following submission of the form. Tulane Contact Tracers will call members of the Tulane Community who may have closely interacted with the person who tested positive. The names of contacts not affiliated with Tulane will not be contacted by Tulane Contact Tracers. Tulane Campus Health will coordinate with the Louisiana Department of Health to notify non-affiliates. Tulane Contact Tracers will not share the identity of the person who tested positive with the contacts. CDC guidance provides specific criteria to guide contact tracing notifications. Please do not take actions (e.g. cancel classes, send entire groups of people home) that impact a wide array of people. Tulane Contact Tracers will advise Human Resources regarding necessary actions. For questions about contact tracing, email CHContactTrace@tulane.edu. back to top Quarantine & Isolation The CDC provides two separate definitions for quarantine and for isolation. Requirements for both vary depending on whether the individual is a student or a university employee. Quarantine is used when a person has potentially been exposed to an illness and needs to separate from other people to see if they develop symptoms. Isolation is used when someone has symptoms or is confirmed to have an illness. Tulane-hosted Quarantine & Isolation Spaces During spring 2022, Tulane will provide isolation space off-campus for students who live on campus and test positive. The current isolation protocol is five days of isolation from when symptoms began or from the date of your first positive test. Tulane will have NO quarantine space for students who are close contacts. Students who need to quarantine will need to find their own quarantine location. A case manager from Student Affairs will be assigned to each student and will make periodic checks to ensure compliance with isolation/quarantine and to assist the student if necessary. Tulane is providing isolation space for residential students who have tested positive. Students will continue their coursework remotely. For some the Tulane isolation space may be undesirable. For this reason, some students have chosen to rent an off-campus property. These students are still assigned a case manager and can reach out to us for any needs they may have. Some short-term rentals and hotels have guidelines that prohibit renting to individuals who have tested positive or are a close contact of a COVID-19 individual. Please check these guidelines before renting an off-campus property. Quarantine & Isolation Guidelines Currently, the Centers for Disease Control and Louisiana Department of Health guidelines call for a combination of a symptom-based & test-based strategy for determining when isolation or quarantine should be discontinued. Tulane is following these guidelines. Isolation Guidelines: If a person is asymptomatic, isolation can end 5 days after the positive test. If the person is experiencing symptoms, isolation can end 5 days following either symptom onset or the first positive test if the positive individual has been symptom free, without fever-reducing medication, for 24 hours. Quarantine Guidelines: Close contacts who are fully vaccinated and are not experiencing symptoms do not need to quarantine. Those who are symptomatic should quarantine, regardless of vaccination status. Quarantine duration is 7 days from date of last exposure. Tulane students and staff will be discharged from quarantine on day 8 if the following criteria are met: They get a COVID-19 test* on day 7 of quarantine which comes back with a negative result. They are not experiencing any COVID-19 like symptoms on day 7 of quarantine. * A PCR test is the ONLY type of test that will be accepted to discharge someone from quarantine If someone is experiencing symptoms on day 7 ONLY of their quarantine (it does not matter if they experience symptoms on days 1-6), the quarantine period will be extended by 3 days for a total of 10 days. If the symptomatic person is tested on day 7, negative test results from that test will not discharge them early from their 10-day quarantine period. Below are the criteria to discharge someone from their 10-day quarantine: Improving symptoms for the past 3 days No fever in the last 24 hours and no use of fever reducing medication After a person is discharged from either their 7-day or 10-day quarantine, they should still (per the CDC): Watch for symptoms until 14 days after exposure. If symptoms occur, immediately set up an appointment with either the Student Health Center or their medical provider. Take steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19 such as: wearing a mask, staying at least 6 feet apart from others, washing their hands and avoiding crowds. Students that are quarantining off campus will be required to receive their day 7 COVID-19 tests through Tulane. Tests conducted outside of Tulane will not be accepted to discharge a student from quarantine. Students quarantining off campus will be scheduled to receive a COVID-19 test at the Student Health Center on day 7 of their quarantine. No testing will occur on Sundays at the Health Center during Fall 2021. If a student’s day 7 test should occur on a Sunday, it will be scheduled for Monday instead. Contact tracers from Campus Health are notified of all COVID-19 positive tests completed through the Tulane System immediately. If students, faculty or staff get tested outside the Tulane System and receive a positive result, it is important to complete a COVID-19 Reporting Form as quickly as possible to notify contact tracers. If you receive a positive result or believe you are a close contact and are unvaccinated, please isolate/quarantine immediately. To help better understand when you should be in isolation or quarantine, visit the CDC website. Possible Exposure If you believe you have been in close contact notify the university immediately regarding your contact by completing the online COVID-19 Reporting Form and someone will contact you with next steps. Please note, a close contact is someone who spent a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period, closer than 6 feet, with someone who tested positive. Returning After Isolation or Quarantine Determining when to return to campus for class or work, or to be in the company of others, will be based on state and local health department and CDC guidance. The university follows CDC, local and state health department guidance for determining when to return to on-site work or classes. These determinations will be based on discussions with the faculty, staff or student’s health care provider and in accordance with the guidance. For more details, view detailed guidelines on the CDC website. back to top Testing FAQs Do I need to get tested if I am vaccinated? If you receive a QR code, or develop symptoms, you need to get tested. How do I get tested if I am vaccinated but experiencing COVID-like symptoms? Individuals who are experiencing symptoms or have been potentially exposed to COVID-19 should NOT get tested at the surveillance testing sites. HOWEVER, individuals who are experiencing symptoms or have been potentially exposed to COVID-19 should complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form. After completing the form, Tulane’s Contact Tracing Team will reach out to you and provide next steps for testing along with isolation/quarantine requirements. Testing is available at the for students through Campus Health and the Living Well clinics for employees. What are the protocols for close contacts who are vaccinated? Close contacts who are vaccinated or who have had COVID-19 in the last 90 days do not need to quarantine if they have no symptoms. Close contacts should complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form. All people should take a COVID test immediately after a known or suspected exposure to COVID-19. If negative, they should retest again between five- and seven-days post-exposure. What are the protocols for those who test positive who are vaccinated? Individuals who are positive and have been vaccinated will need to isolate for 5 days. They should also complete the the COVID-19 Reporting Form. What are the protocols for close contacts who are unvaccinated? Close contacts should complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form. Unvaccinated individuals will need to quarantine for 5 days and receive a negative result on their 5th day in order to leave quarantine. Are employees in quarantine allowed to get tested at Tulane on their 7th day or do they have to go to an outside testing site? Close contacts should complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form. Then Tulane Contact Tracers will reach out regarding testing locations available for employees at Tulane. Where can close contact students get tested? Close contacts should complete the COVID-19 Reporting Form. The Contact Tracing Team will reach out to you regarding testing. Does Tulane have quarantine space for any student? We do not have quarantine space for students who are close contacts of an individual who has tested positive, but have not tested positive themselves. Students who have to quarantine need to develop a plan for their quarantine needs. Case Management and Victim Support Services is available to help students in need of acquiring isolation space. Will Tulane only have isolation space for students who live on-campus? Yes. Unfortunately, we only have the capacity to isolate students who are living in on-campus residences. Off-campus students who cannot isolate on their own can work with Case Management and Victim Support Services for help. Will Tulane have any isolation space for unvaccinated students living on campus? What about unvaccinated living off-campus? All isolation space is for on-campus residential students only, regardless of vaccination status. Off-campus students will be advised to self-isolate using CDC guidance and to work with Case Management and Victim Support Services for other needs. What is the university’s policy regarding COVID protocols in residence halls? Residential students must wear a face covering in all common spaces. Students are not required to wear face coverings in their own residence hall rooms/suites. Residential students may visit other Tulane residence halls. Off-campus guests and non-residential students may not visit residence halls. Are students required to take part in the Tulane testing program if their program is fully online? Non-residential students with a fully online course load who are not visiting Tulane campuses for any reason are not required to participate in the testing program. All students taking a percentage of their courses in-person must take part in the testing program. Please contact CHTestResults@tulane.edu regarding general COVID questions and contact CHContactTrace@tulane.edu for questions regarding positive status or potential exposure. back to top QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications Submit Your Question Can’t find the information you are looking for? Please click on the button below. Submit Your Question COVID-19 REPORTING As we monitor COVID-19 cases on campus, we are asking members of the Tulane Community to fill out this form if they have tested positive for the virus or are awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test from a facility off-campus (anywhere other than Campus Health or the Tulane Testing Centers). This information will help us to reduce the spread of the disease by making sure appropriate areas of campus are cleaned and disinfected and your contacts are notified. COVID-19 Reporting Form Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University