Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /City Smarts City Smarts Getting around New Orleans is easy and affordable. The Tulane University Shuttles and Transportation system helps students, faculty and staff travel safely and easily to, from and around our campuses. The shuttles offer commuter connections between the uptown, health sciences, Elmwood and University Square campuses as well as shopping and entertainment venues in and around the greater New Orleans area. In addition, TapRide —an on-demand, point-to-point, late-night van service — transports riders to their residences or vehicles near the uptown and downtown campuses. Public transportation is also an effective way to get around the city. The Regional Transit Authority (RTA) manages all of the city's public transportation. These include buses and New Orleans' historic streetcar lines, which conveniently run by Tulane's uptown campus. Taxis and ridesharing services like Uber and Lyft give students even more transportation options, making getting around the city even easier. Student safety is of the utmost importance to Tulane. The Tulane University Police Department (TUPD) is a full-service law enforcement agency that provides police services to all of Tulane's New Orleans campuses. TUPD is available 24/7 to help keep Tulane a safe campus environment. In addition, TUPD offers personal services like RAVE Guardian and security escorts 24 hours a day. And, our emergency preparedness and response team provides resources to prepare the community for severe weather and other situations. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University