Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Stronger TUgether /Student Life Student Life Last Updated: Dec. 23, 2021 The health and safety of our students serves as the guiding principle for all of our COVID-19 planning. Through rigorous safety protocols, a robust testing and contact tracing program and physical alterations to campus facilities, we created an environment designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. See Health Strategies. Academic Calendar The first day of class for undergraduates is Tuesday, Jan. 25, 2022. The two mid-semester breaks, for Mardi Gras and for Spring break, will still take place on their scheduled dates, and the end-of-semester study days, finals and commencement will remain in their scheduled places. The full, updated academic calendar can be found here. Deans will communicate directly with graduate and professional students about any changes to their programs. Student Conduct Students should refer to the Code of Student Conduct and the Community Living Standards agreement for those students living on campus to understand the behavioral expectations for all students. Students will be expected to comply with Tulane’s vaccine requirements which includes uploading vaccine documentation to the Campus Health portal or completing the process to officially exempt yourself from being vaccinated. All students are expected to know and comply with all testing requirements put in place, including using the appropriate testing facility depending on symptoms and/or previous positive test. Any student that tests positive for COVID with any off-campus test must immediately notify the university using CHTestResults@wave.tulane.edu. Unvaccinated students must comply with the University’s directives around testing and are responsible for knowing what those directives are in order to fully comply. When the university is in a period where masks are not mandated indoors for all faculty, staff and students, unvaccinated individuals are still required to wear masks both inside and outside on campus and all Tulane property and to participate in surveillance testing as directed. During periods where mask mandates are in place, all students, faculty and staff are expected to know mask rules and comply with wearing masks in all indoor facilities. As always, we ask that students remember to treat the New Orleans community and our neighbors with respect and kindness. While off campus, students are expected to follow any COVID related requirements (i.e. showing proof of vaccination to enter certain establishments) issued by the city or state. This includes being mindful or crowd size, noise, trash and off-campus behaviors as you are always a representative of Tulane University. Campus Recreation Hours of Operation Click here for a detailed list of facility hours. Reily Center hours and operations are subject to change during the pandemic. Tulane Affiliates Only To support the health and safety of the Tulane community, Campus Recreation will limit Reily Student Recreation Center membership and access to Tulane University Affiliates only. Campus Recreation defines Tulane Affiliates as: Tulane University Students, Tulane University Employees, Tulane University Alumni, Tulane University Emeritus, and additional members of the aforementioned affiliate groups with proof of shared residence and financial co-dependency (Family Memberships, only. This does not apply for the Early Bird pass). New Memberships New membership purchases must be made online. There will be no cash sales and no purchases can be made in the facility. To purchase a membership, click here. Member Code of Conduct All visitors the the Reily Student Recreation Center must comply with the current Member Code of Conduct. Group Exercise Class Group Exercise participants should bring their own mat or towels for in-person classes when needed. All participants and staff will be required to follow health safety guidelines as directed by the university or local government. Participants are required to clean all equipment before and after use. Group Exercise studios will be thoroughly cleaned between classes. View the Group Exercise schedule for virtual and in-person options. Indoor & Outdoor Pools Both indoor and outdoor pools will be closed to complete previously scheduled maintenance. Due to COVID-19, the project timeline was adjusted. All aquatics programming and swim lessons have been canceled until further notice. Other Programming Intramural Sports, Club Sports and Outdoor Adventures will be required to follow health safety and social distancing guidelines as directed by the university. For information regarding these programs, please visit https://campusrec.tulane.edu/. Dining Students may use the Grub Hub app to order from on- and off-campus retail locations. Procedures in the Dining Room at the Commons will be evaluated and communicated prior to the start of the spring semester. For more information on hours of operation and ordering instructions, visit diningservices.tulane.edu. Campus Health To support students’ academic success through attending to health and well-being, Tulane Campus Health offers a wide variety of services and initiatives. The Student Health Center is staffed by licensed and board-certified providers to provide accessible, high-quality medical care for students during their time at Tulane University. We provide comprehensive medical care, including both primary care and preventive health care services. We also offer referrals for specialized care in the community. The Counseling Center is committed to providing developmentally appropriate mental health services both in the office setting and as outreach, along with consultative support throughout Tulane University. The Well for Health Promotion provides resources, programs, and services that help Tulane students make healthy choices in support of their academic, personal and professional goals. For more information, please visit https://campushealth.tulane.edu/ Carolyn Barber-Pierre Center for Intercultural Life The Center for Intercultural Life continues to enforce COVID policies on masking indoors and social distancing. At this time programming with food will be grab and go style. Student Travel Tulane will not restrict nor monitor domestic travel for students. Students who will be traveling internationally while enrolled or immediately prior to enrollment should coordinate this travel through the Dean of Students Office following these 3 steps: Students should submit a travel request Students will be contacted by the Dean of Students or designee to discuss the logistics related to their travel. Students will work with a Case Manager to ensure that any necessary precautions are taken. Athletics We are operating under current university COVID-19 guidelines but have returned to normal operation. Shuttles & Transportation In compliance with CDC and Department of Transportation guidelines, masks are still required on Tulane Shuttles & Transportation vehicles, regardless of vaccination status. However, social distancing is no longer required, and capacity on our vehicles has returned to 100%. Vehicles will continue to be cleaned and sanitized throughout the day by Shuttles & Transportation staff using approved cleaning and disinfecting agents. Plexiglass shields remain behind the driver’s area, and HEPA filters have been installed where applicable. In addition, all vehicles are equipped with hand sanitizer dispensers. Bookstore We still encourage students to order their textbooks through the Tulane Bookstore as soon as possible to avoid potential shipping delays. Books ordered to your campus address will be held by Tulane Mail Services until your return. Books ordered for pick-up at the bookstore will be held until your return. QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications Submit Your Question Can’t find the information you are looking for? Please click on the button below. Submit Your Question Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University