Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Leading with Purpose Our Priorities Academic Year-in-Review 2020-21 Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Academic Year-in-Review 2020-21 As we begin a new academic year, we look back at all that the Tulane community was able to accomplish last year despite numerous obstacles. In many ways, Tulane was custom-made for such moments. We were founded in the midst of an epidemic — the annual bouts of yellow fever that devastated coastal regions such as ours. The response we made during the current ongoing global pandemic reflects our history and founding purpose. This past year, Tulanians did what we always do when faced with the unexpected, the overwhelming and the uncharted. We innovated and adapted. We employed our expertise, our knowledge and gave our all to help others. We built new facilities, hired new faculty, welcomed new students and made bold, life-changing discoveries. We continued our commitment to make our university one that embraces and celebrates diversity, that insists on inclusion and equity. The progress we made in these areas served as a constant reminder of how much more work there is to be done to build an academic community that welcomes, supports and values, equally, all of its members. With public safety at the forefront of our efforts, we returned to classes, to fields of competition, to circles of friends and to connection with our community. We continued to grow in every way, our eyes always fixed on the future. Together, we made 2020-2021 an academic year worth remembering. Michael A. Fitts President, Tulane University What We Make Way For Growth Fueled by the urgent and pressing needs of society, Tulane crafts solutions with lasting impact, leading to real changes that make a difference in the lives of others. Big Ideas We must task ourselves to seek more, do more, question more and be more — for each other and the world. Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Diversity is a hallmark of a great university committed to creating a more equitable and inclusive future. This is the university Tulane aspires to be. New Beginnings Tulane is a passionate, tight-knit community where our differences make us stronger and our culture inspires us to celebrate life. Tulanians lead with confidence, humility — and spirit. Audacious Giving Inspired by our motto — not for oneself but for one’s own — Tulane’s faculty, staff, students, alumni, donors and friends, all Tulanians, are called to advance our distinguished tradition and relentlessly pursue a better tomorrow. A Helluva Hullabaloo Tulane has a rich legacy, and yet its story is still being written. We think life is a little different, and lived a little better, in New Orleans. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University