Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Entrepreneurship in NOLA Entrepreneurship in NOLA Tulane University is helping build a stronger economy in New Orleans. Our focus on entrepreneurship and innovation is bringing new ideas and products to market. Technologies developed at Tulane have spun off 11 start-up companies in the Greater New Orleans area. Our innovative programs like the Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, an annual Business Model Competition, and our minor in Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship, as well as many programs geared towards entrepreneurship in the A. B. Freeman School of Business, including the Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation make a difference in the business community in New Orleans. The Office of Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property Development serves as a pipeline between faculty and student innovations and the marketplace. Our students have had a hand in developing patent-pending technologies such as an innovative tubing system that promises to improve the quality of life for ALS patients, a technique to rapidly display important biopsy features for diagnosis and an algorithm to make 3-D printing more efficient. One of the newest, hottest, yet coolest places on campus is an old machine shop where design, invention, innovation and fabrication intersect to allow students to hold ideas in their hands! Visit the Maker Space and set your creativity free with laser cutters, 3-D printers and other design tools. You’ll see what we mean. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University