Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Stronger TUgether /Vaccinations COVID-19 Vaccinations Last Updated: May 27, 2022 The country is experiencing yet another COVID-19 surge due to a new variant, BA.2.12.1. The best way to reduce your risk of hospitalization and severe complications is to get vaccinated and boosted. In keeping with the City of New Orleans’ COVID-19 protocols Tulane also strongly recommends masking when indoors or on public transportation. Please be reminded that Tulane has a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy, which includes the requirement to receive a booster shot once you become eligible. To learn more about this policy, including details regarding exemptions, click here. Please review the following booster dose recommendations below: All people ages 5 years and older: Should receive one booster dose of an age-appropriate COVID-19 vaccine; an mRNA vaccine is preferred People ages 50 years and older: Should receive a second booster dose using an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine at least 4 months after the first booster Heterologous booster: a different mRNA vaccine from the initial series This mix-and-match approach is an option for booster doses: studies have shown similar or higher neutralizing antibody responses in those who receive a vaccine for their booster that is different from their initial series, although clinical superiority remains unproven. Tulane provides only the Pfizer vaccine, so those desiring the Moderna vaccine would need to obtain it at a local pharmacy. For persons who are moderately or severely immunocompromised (see definitions), or for those who received the Janssen vaccine for their primary series, please refer to CDC guidance for detailed recommendations. Additional information can be found here. Scheduling Your Booster Shot As a service to faculty, students, and staff, Tulane continues to operate a vaccine/booster clinic on both the uptown and downtown campuses. The uptown clinic will be relocated at the Tulane Living Well clinic located at 200 Broadway St., Suite 108 effective June 6, while the downtown vaccine clinic will remain at the old bookstore in the Hutchinson building, located at 1430 Tulane Ave. Eligible students, faculty, and staff can make appointments for their booster vaccine at either the uptown or downtown clinic. The uptown vaccine clinic will be open Mondays and Fridays, while the downtown clinic will be open Tuesdays and Thursdays. Please use the link for appointments below to check the hours and availability for both locations. Only the Pfizer vaccine will be available at these locations. To make an appointment to receive your booster vaccine, please use this link and choose the appointment reason. This consent form must also be completed, signed, and brought to your scheduled appointment. TO RECEIVE YOUR BOOSTER DOSE, YOU MUST PRESENT YOUR CDC VACCINE CARD OR LA WALLET APP. DUPLICATE VACCINE CARDS WILL NOT BE CREATED AT THE CLINIC. If you have any questions, please email covidvaccine@tulane.edu. Family and friends of Tulane employees can also request a booster appointment by sending their name and phone number to covidvaccine@tulane.edu. A representative will call individuals back to schedule their appointment. Booster vaccines are also available at many area pharmacies. For COVID-19 vaccinations received outside of Tulane’s clinic, the university requires that you upload the proof of vaccination onto the Campus Health portal. Please click here for instructions. Individuals who are unsure if they should get a booster should talk to their healthcare provider about their medical condition and ask whether getting an additional vaccine dose is appropriate for them. TULANE-SPECIFIC FAQs Vaccination Booster Who should get the COVID-19 booster shot? All students, faculty, staff and contract employees will be required to receive a booster shot once they become eligible for one. Booster records must be uploaded to the Campus Health patient portal. If I’ve already been vaccinated with one COVID-19 vaccine, can I receive a different COVID-19 vaccine as my third booster? Yes. You may choose which COVID-19 vaccine you receive as a booster shot. Some people may prefer the vaccine type that they originally received, and others may prefer to get a different booster. The CDC’s recommendations now allow for this type of mix and match dosing for booster shots. What are the side effects of the COVID-19 booster shot? Similar to the regular shots, namely soreness or redness at the injection site, fatigue, headache, muscle aches and occasional fever and chills. If I had a breakthrough COVID-19 case, should I still get the booster shot? We don’t yet know the answer since we don’t know how a breakthrough infection compares to a booster vaccine. It may still be prudent to get a booster if you are in a group for which boosters are recommended. If I received monoclonal antibodies treatment, when can I receive my booster shot? The recommendation is to wait 90 days after receiving a COVID-19 monoclonal antibody treatment before getting a COVID-19 vaccine shot How long should I wait between getting my COVID-19 booster shot and my flu shot? You can get the flu shot with, or at any time before or after, the COVID-19 booster. For Students Will the university require students to receive a COVID-19 booster for the Spring 2022 semester? Yes. All students will be required to receive a booster shot once they become eligible for one. Booster records must be uploaded to the Campus Health patient portal. How should students submit proof of vaccination to the university? If you have completed the full vaccine sequence through an entity outside of Tulane, please update your vaccination records through the Campus Health Patient Portal. If you have been vaccinated at the Tulane Vaccine Clinic, your record will be updated automatically. Will vaccinated students still need to participate in the asymptomatic testing program? Yes. All faculty, staff, and students are required to participate in ongoing surveillance testing throughout the semester regardless of vaccine status or the presence of antibodies from a previous COVID-19 infection. This is subject to change as public health guidance evolves. More information will be provided closer to the fall. Would students spending the spring semester abroad or in absentia and not on campus need to be vaccinated? Students studying abroad need to be vaccinated. Students in absentia for the entire spring 2022 semester are not required to be vaccinated, but they must receive, and provide proof of having received, an FDA authorized COVID-19 vaccine if they plan to return for the spring 2022 semester. What if a student is unable to receive an FDA authorized vaccine? Students who are unable to receive an FDA-authorized vaccines (for example, international students traveling from certain countries) prior to their arrival or return to campus for the fall semester will have the opportunity to consult with Campus Health staff about whether vaccination in Louisiana is appropriate. For those who may be directed to be vaccinated here, a grace period for vaccination will be allowed. If students have already received vaccines that are not authorized by the FDA, Campus Health will make individualized determinations about the need for additional vaccines based on which vaccines such students have received and relevant public health guidance. Questions about this can be directed to covidvaccine@tulane.edu. For Faculty and Staff Is the university requiring that faculty and staff receive a COVID-19 booster? Yes, all faculty, staff and contract employees will be required to receive a booster shot once they become eligible for one. Booster records must be uploaded to the Campus Health patient portal. Will faculty and staff still need to participate in the asymptomatic testing program? Yes. All faculty, staff, and students are required to participate in ongoing surveillance testing throughout the semester regardless of vaccine status or the presence of antibodies from a previous COVID-19 infection. This is subject to change as public health guidance evolves. More information will be provided closer to the fall. I am working remotely, not on campus. Am I still eligible to be vaccinated at a campus clinic? Yes. Will employees be paid time off for COVID-19 vaccine injections? Yes. Will Tulane pay for related expenses should we get sick from the vaccine? If you work for Tulane and are covered under a Tulane insurance program, those expenses will be paid under your insurance plan. For All Tulane Community Members Does the university offer the vaccination to faculty, staff, and students? The Tulane Vaccine Clinic, located on the ground floor of the JBJ Building at 1324 Tulane Avenue, currently has daily appointment openings for COVID-19 vaccine for all students, faculty and staff. Tulane students, faculty and staff can make an appointment via this link. Please fill out the vaccine consent form in advance and bring it to your appointment. A Vaccine Clinic is also open on the ground floor of Phelps Residence Hall. You may schedule an appointment at either the uptown clinic or the downtown clinic. What COVID-19 vaccines may be used to fulfill the university’s vaccination requirement? Students are required to receive a COVID-19 vaccine authorized by the FDA. Currently, there are three such vaccines and information about them is available on the FDA website. How will the university use information I submit regarding my proof of vaccination? This information may be used to determine your COVID-19 vaccination status and your suitability for certain university activities and for reporting and operational planning purposes. The university will store this information in accordance with its information security policy and will restrict access to a limited number of authorized personnel. In addition, Campus Health and other authorized personnel may use relevant portions of this information to ensure compliance with COVID-19 policies Tulane University has put in place to protect the health and safety of the campus community. I've been vaccinated. Do I still need to follow university COVID protocols? And should I let the university know I've been vaccinated? If you've been vaccinated, you must continue to follow university protocols on mask wearing, physical distancing and regular participation in the asymptomatic testing protocol. The only difference is that you may not need to quarantine if you were exposed to a positive case or recently traveled. If you have completed the full vaccine sequence from an entity outside of Tulane, please update your vaccination records through the Campus Health Patient Portal. If you have been vaccinated at the Tulane Vaccine Clinic, your record will be updated automatically. Will Tulane be monitoring vaccine recipients? Yes. If you have already received both doses of your COVID-19 vaccine from an entity outside of Tulane, please submit documentation through the Campus Health patient portal to update your vaccination records. If you have been vaccinated at the Tulane Vaccine Clinic, your record will be updated automatically. Please email CovidVaccine@Tulane.edu with any further questions. For more information about vaccines click here. back to top QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications Submit Your Question Can’t find the information you are looking for? Please click on the button below. Submit Your Question COVID-19 REPORTING As we monitor COVID-19 cases on campus, we are asking members of the Tulane Community to fill out this form if they have tested positive for the virus or are awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test from a facility off-campus (anywhere other than Campus Health or the Tulane Testing Centers). This information will help us to reduce the spread of the disease by making sure appropriate areas of campus are cleaned and disinfected and your contacts are notified. COVID-19 Reporting Form Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University