Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Research /Global Studies /Travel Support Travel Support Tulane students and faculty travel around the world in their scholarly activities. We have many resources and procedures to keep people safe and address their needs in their travels. Some countries have visa requirements. Be sure to check with the U.S. State Department well in advance of your travel. If you plan to visit a Travel Warning Country as designated by either the State Department or the CDC, you will need prior approval from the university. You must also complete the International Travel Form. Visit International SOS for detailed information about the countries to which you plan to travel. They offer country-specific medical, personal, travel and security advice, as well as up-to-date travel conditions and other important information. International SOS is the insurer who will assist you in case of emergency, and all Tulane students and employees must register their international travel with them. Your Tulane health insurance has more limited coverage abroad. Tulane employees who will be abroad for more than six months should contact Workforce Management at 504-247-1777 for more information about their coverage. Also visit Risk Management to see whether you should purchase supplemental travel insurance. You may need special immunizations to travel to certain areas. Also consider visiting Tulane’s Travel Clinic before departing. The United States limits the release or transport of certain critical technologies, technical data, software, equipment, chemical and biological materials, and information to certain countries or foreigners for national security reasons. Check to see if these controls apply to your travel. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University