Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Our Core Values Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Tulane University’s Core Values /Our Core Values /Inspiring Excellence Inspiring Excellence We are purpose-driven and intentional in everything we do – from our groundbreaking research to teaching to public service. Our distinctive attitude, grit and passion inspire our commitment to excellence. As we continue to grow and prepare the next generation of leaders, we task ourselves to seek more, do more and be more. Spirit of Tulane The Spirit of Tulane Research Award was awarded to an art historian of the African Diaspora, a physician-scientist and an immunologist. The Tulane Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards are to be given annually to honor outstanding scholars and to recognize exceptional research achievement and impact on advancing knowledge in science, engineering, health and education, or creativity in the arts, the humanities and other academic fields of study. Stimulating Access to Research in Residency The National Institutes of Health awarded Tulane a $1 million grant to increase the number and diversity of physician scientists engaged in heart, lung and blood disease research. The grant will provide mentored research opportunities and support for a diverse cohort of medical residents in internal medicine and pediatrics. Student-run Clinic A group of School of Medicine students and physicians spend time each weekend helping people get the medical assistance they need. The students run a clinic at the Ozanam Inn, a local shelter for homeless and underserved people. The shelter just moved into a new space and expanded its facility. This expansion allows them to house women for the first time in the Ozanam Inn’s 66-year history. Post-Ida Recovery Efforts A team of students in the School of Architecture’s Albert and Tina Small Center for Collaborative Design class lent a hand with post-Ida recovery and cleanup efforts on Sugar Roots Farm, a nonprofit teaching farm in Lower Algiers. Prior to the hurricane, the class partnered with the farm to create a community kitchen and learning center. The students are currently working on design proposals for the outdoor kitchen project, which they will build by December. Meeting the Challenges of a Data-driven World The Data Hub will serve as a central home for interdisciplinary, data literacy, and data science programming across the University. The Data Hub will create opportunities for all students to engage in the study of some of the world’s most complex issues while elevating their capacity in data literacy and science. Through its work, The Data Hub will build a campus culture that acknowledges and values the critical role of data in today’s world and recognizes data literacy as an essential skill for being an active, engaged, and informed citizen. The Future of Medicine After a photo of School of Medicine students at Whitney Plantation went viral in 2019, the group formed The 15 White Coats, a nonprofit organization that supports students of color in medical fields. The group sells copies of the photo to be displayed in classrooms and uses the funds to contribute to scholarships toward medical school study prep and application fees. The group also plans to establish a virtual Black doctors lecture series. Finding Housing Solutions The School of Architecture’s URBANbuild program and Bethlehem Lutheran Church share a common goal in finding solutions to the lack of affordable housing in New Orleans. To pursue that goal, they formed a partnership, and on Jan. 9 broke ground on a four-year project that will build four Americans with Disabilities Act-accessible housing units in Central City. QUICK LINKS Home Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University