Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Research /Environment, Energy and Resilience Environment, Energy & Resilience Rich natural resources? Check. Energy assets? Yes. Irrepressible spirit and globally relevant culture? You know it. Is there a better place than New Orleans to study the environment, energy and resilience? As the leading research university in the city, Tulane is perfectly positioned to develop innovative solutions to balance growing demands for energy with responsibility to the environment and people who live in it. Here are just a few of the centers, institutes and programs that set Tulane apart in environmental, energy and resilience research: Environmental Studies is a multi-disciplinary program offered by the School of Liberal Arts that encompasses natural sciences, social sciences, humanities and fine arts. The Tulane Institute on Water Resources Law and Policy works to advance water law and policy relevant to urban and coastal environments. The Tulane Energy Institute conducts research on the energy industry, including the economics of the industry, emerging technologies and the environment. Faculty in the School of Science and Engineering investigate renewable energy sources and look for ways to improve existing technologies. At the same time, psychology faculty offer advice to schools on how they can support children with PTSD. The ByWater Institute has a vision for healthy and sustainable urban coasts that meet the needs of human populations without sacrificing the ecosystem. The institute provides facilities and resources for research in river and coastal areas, and supports A Studio in the Woods, an artists' retreat center. The Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking offers platforms to aid business innovations and economic development that address today’s problems. The Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy, a center for disaster response and leadership training, aids in disaster relief around the world while preparing the next generation of emergency managers. The Environmental Law program of the Law School is among the nation’s top-ranked environmental law programs, notable for hosting national renowned scholarship and outreach including the Environmental Law Summit. And, the new Center for Studies on Displaced Populations will conduct a number of studies focusing on the vulnerability and resiliency of different populations affected by Hurricane Katrina. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University