Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search Fall 2020 campus Reopen to Reconnect In the middle of the pandemic — and with extensive precautions and safety protocols in place — students and faculty moved back to on-ground operations this fall.Continue Reading infectious diseases The Virus and Vaccines During the novel coronavirus global pandemic, the Tulane National Primate Research center goes all out to combat COVID-19, an infectious disease like no other. Continue Reading public health Health Equity As the COVID-19 crisis engulfs the Black community, Thomas LaVeist, dean of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, explains why — and leads the way to changing the unjust health gap. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Audio research Podcast: On Good Authority Video infectious diseases The Virus & Vaccines: webinar Video campus Peter Ricchuiti: Back to Campus Video public health Health Equity Audio research Is COVID-19 Immunity Possible? Video race and inclusion Racial Reckoning: #WhiteCoatsforBlackLives Audio research Climate Risk Management: Jesse Keenan podcast Video academics Virtual Celebration: Commencement 2020 Video campus Convocation 2020 Also In This Issue Fall 2020 View as PDF Issue Archive President Why We Came Back Ensuring a rewarding academic and social experience for our students, creating a more diverse and just university, continuing our life-saving research and transforming the heart of our city into a high-tech and healthcare hub are why we came back — and why we are here to stay. Continue Reading race and inclusion, leadership, academics, New Orleans Racial Reckoning Tulane renews and expands its commitment to making the university a more inclusive and supportive home for all. The time to act is now. Continue Reading microbiology, immunology, infectious diseases Coronavirus Detective Tulane virologist Robert Garry reflects on the COVID-19 pandemic. Continue Reading infectious diseases, microbiology, immunology Virus Survives in Air for Hours The Tulane National Primate Research Center leads a study on COVID-19 aerosols. Continue Reading race and inclusion, medicine, leadership ‘Resilience Is in Our DNA’ A photo of African American students from Tulane School of Medicine made national news in December after it went “viral” on social media. Continue Reading athletics, campus, New Orleans Green Wave Justice Mónica Lebrón, the first chief diversity officer for Tulane Athletics, leads Green Wave Justice for All. She’s also deputy athletics director and chief operating officer. Continue Reading epidemiology, community health, academics Ghost Stories One of the most compelling pieces of narrative history is The Ghost Map: The Story of London’s Most Terrifying Epidemic — and How It Changed Science, Cities and the Modern World. Continue Reading New Orleans Bridge Over Troubled Water Is 2020 this country’s “Bridge Over Troubled Water,” as sung by Simon &amp; Garfunkel in the turbulent ’70s before entering the ’80s? Continue Reading ecology, evolutionary biology, global, race and inclusion Nature Works in Strange Ways Thomas Sherry has helped build the cornerstones of a Tulane education that nurture tomorrow’s climate leadership. Recognizing the close relationship between the natural world and the well-being of humans, he pays particular attention to birds and their habitats. Continue Reading Anne Rice Archives Acquired Manuscripts, screenplays, journals and personal correspondence of the Interview With the Vampire author are available to researchers at the Howard-Tilton Memorial Library. Continue Reading research Climate Risk Management Professor Jesse M. Keenan has a leading role in the first climate change publication by a U.S. financial regulator. Continue Reading tulanians, medicine, entrepreneurship Ampersand: Sophia Omoro: Surgeon, Designer & Social Entrepreneur Sophia Aomo Omoro (M ’00, ’02) always knew she wanted to be a surgeon. Continue Reading wavemakers A Legacy of Service The chance meeting of a pair of Tulane University students at a medical school fraternity party almost 75 years ago led to a life filled with family, service and a lasting legacy that will continue at Tulane for years to come. Continue Reading tulanians, epidemiology, public health, international health Impression: Susan Hassig After years of studying HIV transmission, Susan Hassig (PHTM ’84, ’87), associate professor of epidemiology at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, became a go-to media source on the prevention and spread of COVID-19. Continue Reading wavemakers Donors Support Sport and Health Two programs with ties to sport received generous gifts this year. Continue Reading tulanians, sociology, economics Impression: Cindy Reese Mitchell Cindy Reese Mitchell’s (NC ’99) journey to her current position as Founding Chief Executive Officer of Mill House Ventures in Canberra, Australia, began when she was a girl growing up in Macon County, Alabama. Continue Reading wavemakers University Values Leonard A. Lauder, chairman emeritus of The Estée Lauder Companies, Inc., has made a gift to Tulane University to establish The Leonard A. Lauder Professor of American History and Values. Continue Reading wavemakers Gift Enhances Covid-19 Testing Tulane University has received a $1 million gift from Elana Amsterdam and her husband, Rob Katz, to significantly expand its molecular pathology lab to increase COVID-19 testing capacity within the region. Continue Reading In Brief President TUDAY & TOMORROW TUday & Tomorrow, a weekly note from President Fitts, debuted this fall. It focuses on current issues and also looks toward the future. TUday & Tomorrow is a great source from which to learn what’s on the president’s mind. visit https://tulane.it/signup-today-and-tomorrow research TULANIAN NOW To spread the word about Tulane research during the coronavirus crisis, Tulanian Now was inaugurated in the spring. It’s a digital newsletter with stories about work being done by researchers and in the community to address the global COVID-19 pandemic. An archive of past issues is available. visit https://tulane.it/tulanian-now campus TULANE TODAY Don’t forget to check out Tulane Today, a daily e-newsletter that shares news, announcements, events and more. Subscribe to keep up with what’s happening on campus. visit https://tulane.it/tulane-today campus DASHBOARD GETS ‘A+’ Tulane’s COVID-19 Dashboard, which is updated daily, includes the total coronavirus tests administered to faculty, staff and students, the number of cumulative positive tests vs. active cases, daily testing results and comparisons to state and local positivity rates. It’s been receiving good reviews, including an “A+” rating from the Twitter account “We Rate COVID Dashboards,” as it helps the university diligently monitor COVID-19. “We Rate COVID Dashboards” is managed by two Yale University School of Medicine professors who review and evaluate dashboards to track COVID-19 testing and active cases on university campuses. visit https://tulane.it/dashboard-gets-a campus TECH SUPPORT To assist faculty with the new enhanced learning technology implemented this fall, the Student Support Squad was created to provide on-campus and online support. The squad provides opportunities for student employment while helping faculty deal with Zoom classes and other technological educational challenges. visit https://tulane.it/tech-support culture PORTRAIT COMMISSIONED The Newcomb Art Museum will commemorate the life of the late Kim Boutte, a member of the Fi Yi Yi Mardi Gras Indian tribe and a longtime Sodexo employee at Tulane, through a portrait by New Orleans–based artist Brandan “BMike” Odums. The portrait, still being created, is in response to calls from the Tulane community to honor Boutte’s contribution to the cultural landscape of New Orleans and the connections she made with students. visit https://tulane.it/portrait-commissioned architecture PRESERVATION Researchers from the School of Architecture will assist in designing new uses for Louisiana mid-20th-century African American schools that were abandoned in the wake of school desegregation. Laura Blokker, interim director of the Preservation Studies program at Tulane, along with Andrew Liles, assistant professor of architecture, received the biennial Richard L. Blinder Award for this work. visit https://tulane.it/preservation campus SUKKAH BUILD IN THE AGE OF CORONAVIRUS For the 12th year, architecture students built a sukkah on the uptown campus. Constructed by Oct. 1, the temporary structure for Sukkot, a Jewish fall harvest festival, had to go up quickly because of COVID-19 restrictions. Made of pine and measuring 10.5 feet by 12 feet, it had two walls to facilitate safe passage, instead of the traditional three, and built-in seats that allowed four people to sit socially distanced. visit https://tulane.it/sukkah-build-2020 history Walter Isaacson, history professor “By shining a light on gene editing, the Nobel committee is bringing a needed awareness of the wonders of nature — and of the technology that will increasingly determine how nature works.” visit https://tulane.it/Walter-Isaacson-nyt-2020 research METABOLIC SYNDROME Dr. Joshua Denson, assistant professor of medicine and pulmonary and critical care medicine physician, led a study that found that COVID-19 patients who have metabolic syndrome are three times more likely to die from the virus. Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of at least three of five conditions: hypertension, high blood sugar, obesity, high triglycerides and abnormal cholesterol levels. visit https://tulane.it/metabolic-syndrome research NEXT-GENERATION VACCINE Microbiologist Lisa Morici and immunologist James McLachlan at the School of Medicine were awarded a $150,000 Fast Grant for a project to make next-generation COVID-19 vaccines more effective. The team will test whether they can produce a better immune response in tissues most vulnerable to SARS-CoV-2 infection by adding bacteria-based adjuvants to vaccines in development. Fast Grants are awarded within 48 hours of researchers applying. visit https://tulane.it/next-generation-vaccine research Detection in Wastewater Samendra Sherchan, assistant professor in the Department of Environmental Health Sciences at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, is lead investigator of a study that revealed the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in wastewater in Louisiana. Scientists collected wastewater samples in Southern Louisiana over a period of four months and monitored SARS-CoV-2 using an ultrafiltration method. visit https://tulane.it/detection-in-wastewater research Antibody Research School of Medicine researchers have designed a synthetic protein against COVID-19. Dr. Jay Kolls, John W. Deming Endowed Chair in Internal Medicine and lead author of the research, said the engineered protein, called MDR504, is designed to go to the lungs to neutralize the virus before it can infect lung cells. In addition to a treatment, the protein could be used as a pre- or post-exposure therapy for healthcare workers, first responders and vulnerable populations at high risk. visit https://tulane.it/antibody-research research Transmission study Dr. Richard Oberhelman and others at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine have partnered with local healthcare providers for a COVID-19 study of patients and healthcare workers in New Orleans as part of a larger Centers for Disease Control and Prevention effort to better understand the virus. The study will provide estimates of how many people in a given area have COVID-19 and overall infection rates over time. It will also examine geographic, demographic and clinical trends. visit HTTPS://tulane.it/transmission-study research HOW THE VIRUS WORKS A team of researchers is studying how the coronavirus works and where and when it is shed through a $700,000 grant by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What researchers find could help explain why COVID-19 is causing higher death rates among Black and Hispanic residents of New Orleans. Assistant Professor of Medicine Dr. Dahlene Fusco, who is part of the team, said researchers want to learn whether specific factors related to the virus or something within the host contribute to the higher fatality rate. visit https://tulane.it/how-the-virus-works research CANCER PATIENTS Tulane has joined other institutions across the globe in a trial of a drug, TL-895, to treat severe COVID-19 in hospitalized cancer patients. Dr. Nakhle Saba, associate professor of clinical medicine at the School of Medicine, is principal investigator of the trial. Saba said that data show 40% of COVID-19 patients with cancer required hospitalization, 20% developed severe respiratory illness, and 12% died within 30 days. visit https://tulane.it/cancer-patients liberal arts BRIAN EDWARDS, dean of the Tulane School of Liberal Arts “The still-unfolding crisis ... will be the defining moment for the current generation of college and high-school-aged students, the way WWII was for those we now call the ‘greatest generation.’ ... I think of this as the fractured generation.” visit https://tulane.it/Brian-Edwards-the-hill research Latin American Response Nora Lustig, the Samuel Z. Stone Professor of Latin American Economics and director of the Commitment to Equity Institute at Tulane, organized networks of economists and researchers to examine Latin American countries’ COVID-19 situation and policy responses. One group’s work resulted in a partnership with the United Nations Development Program that focused on actionable items for governments, individuals and organizations to support countries’ populations. visit https://tulane.it/latin-american-response campus VIRTUAL CELEBRATION With COVID-19 restrictions in place, an in-person commencement ceremony was postponed for the Class of 2020. But that didn’t stop Tulane from celebrating the academic achievements of the class with a virtual celebration on May 16. “TUgether — Connecting the Class of 2020” featured Ellen DeGeneres, Madeleine Albright, Drew Brees, Hoda Kotb, Kelly Ripa, Apple CEO Tim Cook and many others who saluted the graduates. visit https://tulane.it/virtual-celebration academics BIBLIOPHILE RECOGNIZED The Grolier Club, the oldest and most prestigious bibliophilic society in America, welcomed Tulane’s Dean of Libraries and Academic Information Resources David Banush as a member this summer. The club consists of nearly 800 book collectors, scholars, librarians, printers and bibliophiles and fosters the study, collecting and appreciation of books and works on paper. visit http://tulane.it/bibliophile-recognized research PANIC DISORDER Tulane Brain Institute faculty member and Assistant Professor of Psychology Jonathan Fadok is conducting research on panic disorder — one of the most common mental disorders in the United States, with nearly 5 percent of the population suffering attacks that cause extreme disruption in their daily lives. Fadok is working on the identification of neurobiological mechanisms through which the brain reacts to fearful stimuli. The research, funded by a $2.24 million grant from the National Institutes of Health, could provide new insights into post-traumatic stress disorder and panic disorder. visit https://tulane.it/panic-disorder history Andy Horowitz, History Professor “Most accounts of Katrina begin when the levees broke and conclude not long after. But these stories offer a denuded sense of what happened. … Somebody had to build the levees before they could break.” visit https://tulane.it/Andy-Horowitz-boston-globe Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008