Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Admission & Aid There are 13,600 students at Tulane. Every last one of them has been exactly where you are right now: Wondering if Tulane is the right fit. Wondering if the programs here are what you’re looking for. And—let’s be honest—wondering how you’re going to pay for this. We helped them. And we’ll help you. Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect It's Different Down Here SoPA’s Digital Design program has record-setting, award-winning first year Quick View Augmented reality brochure offers prospective students interactive glimpse into Tulane Quick View Just one change per day can make your diet more planet friendly Quick View Tulane School of Professional Advancement offers active military and vets tuition reduction Quick View View Tulane News SoPA’s Digital Design program has record-setting, award-winning first year A year ago, Tulane University’s School of Professional Advancement (SoPA) re-introduced a new, updated digital design program with concentrations in graphic design, interactive design and game art and animation. The new courses and the launch of three new computer labs resulted in a 50-percent increase in enrollment following the first year. The year also proved to be record-setting in other ways. Read Full Story Augmented reality brochure offers prospective students interactive glimpse into Tulane The Office of Undergraduate Admission is bringing an interactive experience of Tulane University straight to the fingertips of prospective students through a new augmented reality brochure. Augmented reality allows users to see a real-life environment enhanced through computer-generated information. Read Full Story Just one change per day can make your diet more planet friendly Food production is an important contributor to climate change, accounting for about a quarter of carbon emissions globally. If Americans changed their diets by swapping out just one item each day, they could greatly reduce their carbon footprint from food, according to a new Tulane University study that examined the real-world diets of thousands of people in the United States. Read Full Story Tulane School of Professional Advancement offers active military and vets tuition reduction Tulane's School of Professional Advancement is offering a 20 percent tuition reduction for active military members and veterans. Read Full Story Right Here, Right Now Want a glimpse of Tulane from where you’re sitting? Check out our social media for real-time updates from campus. We have all the usual suspects: Instagram, Twitter, Facebook and a bunch of others. It’s Tulane in a nutshell: Real. Live. And it probably includes something about food, because this is New Orleans and you know it’s good to live here. Financial Aid Through our extensive merit-based and need-based scholarship programs, Tulane pays on average 40 percent of the actual cost of tuition and fees for each student. Want merit aid? You don’t have to do anything—all applicants are considered. If you’d like to be considered for need-based aid, though, you must fill out a FAFSA form. Undergraduate and Graduate Admission More than half of our students are undergraduates. They’re here for the programs (we offer over 75 majors and minors), they’re here for the city (The Princeton Review says we’re the #1 College City, woohoo! No surprise there.), they’re here because they’ve heard it’s great when a professor actually knows you by name (small class sizes are the norm), they’re here because it’s easy to get away (a third of our students study abroad). Whatever their reason, we’ll help you find yours. Our admission office works directly with undergrads. Every school at Tulane, though, sets its own graduate admission policies. If you’re coming for graduate work, reach out to those schools directly. It All Starts With A Click Four years at Tulane could change your life. And it all starts with one click. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University