Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /About About Tulane Since beginning as a medical college in 1834, we’ve grown into one of the most well-respected research universities in the country. We’re one of just 62 members of the Association of American Universities, an elite group of top-ranked research institutions. But we’re hardly an ivory-tower, view-from-40,000-feet kind of place. Yes, you’ll find a lot of intellectual firepower on campus. Our faculty are involved in projects as diverse as protecting the aquatic resources of the Gulf and chronicling the region’s singular musical heritage. But because of our size – just 8,610 undergrads; classes average 21 students – you won’t be looking at that academic talent from afar. The brilliant faculty who are carrying out that work also happen to be eager, nurturing educators, and they’ll be teaching your classes from the minute you arrive. About those classes: There are 1,700 to choose from. We offer more than 70 majors in five different schools, including science and engineering, architecture, business, liberal arts and public health. Can’t pick? About a third of the students here double major. Every single one of our undergraduate students, though, gives back. We were the first research university to require community service in the curriculum. Last year alone, our students logged more than 780,000 hours of civic service in New Orleans. (Service is really at our core: The physicians who formed the college that became Tulane were trying to combat epidemics of yellow fever and cholera that ravaged New Orleans in the 19th century.) Once you spend some time here, it will become clear how Tulane and New Orleans are connected. Tulanians – that’s what we’re known as – come from 58 countries and all 50 states. On average, students travel 923 miles to get here from home. In some places, that kind of diversity sticks out. Here, it blends perfectly with our surroundings. New Orleans is a melting pot of cultures, and our art, architecture, food and music show it – we’ve even got our own language. Tulane University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, doctorate, and professional degrees. Questions about the accreditation of Tulane University may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org). History and Traditions Timeline Past Presidents Traditions Leadership and Administration Administrative Council Administrative Departments Board of Tulane Deans Executive Leadership Handbooks and Policies Mission Statement President Michael A. Fitts President's Cabinet Visiting Tulane Campuses Plan Your Visit Visiting the Medical Center Why Tulane Rankings and Honors Facts and Figures Core Values Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University