Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /About /Visiting Tulane /Plan Your Visit /Local Transportation Local Transportation Taking a tour of the cemeteries? Want to eat at one of our famous restaurants? You’ll need a way to get there and we’ve got lots of options. Rental Cars Want to rent a car while you’re here? Just tell them you’re with us and get a discounted rate. Airport Shuttle $24 each way or $44 round-trip between Tulane and the airport. The shuttle stops in front of PJ’s Coffee on Tulane’s campus at the corner of Willow and Janet Yulman Way (see the campus map). Purchase airport shuttle tickets in advance or call 866-596-2699 for more information. Uber: Sign up to ride or download the Uber app on your phone and get started. Lyft: Sign up to ride or download the Lyft app on your phone and get started. Streetcars $1.25 per person, per ride, per line. See the full list of streetcar schedules and maps or download the GoMobile App to buy tickets on the go. Taxis Coleman Cab: (504) 586-0222 Nawlins Cab: (504) 522-9059 United Cab: (504) 522-9771 $3.50 for first 1/8 mile $2.00 per mile or $0.25 per every 40 seconds of waiting time $1.00 for each additional passenger $33 from the airport for 1 or 2 passengers and $14 per passenger for 3 people and up Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University