Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Committed to Community Committed to Community Our dedication to service is part of what makes Tulane such a unique place to study. Community engagement is ingrained in our curriculum, as all of our undergraduates do public service as a pre-requisite for graduation. Our students make a huge difference in the city through service learning opportunities that help spur job growth, support education initiatives, and help support strong and vibrant neighborhoods. Students also participate in Outreach Tulane, a large community service event with an average of about 1,000 participants each semester. Our roots in community outreach go deep. Founded in 1966, the Community Action Council of Tulane University Students, or CACTUS, is one of the oldest continually operating student-run volunteer groups in the nation. And Tulane's law school was the first in the nation to have a pro bono requirement. Community engagement isn't limited to students, either. Our faculty and staff spread out across the city in a Wave of Green every year, assisting non-profits, building homes, beautifying parks and neighborhoods and performing other acts of service. Tulane's community outreach makes a real difference in the lives of people in the city. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University