Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home About Us Current Programs Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Tulane University Leadership Institute Overview As part of President Fitts' Plan for Now, the Tulane Leadership Institute (TULI) seeks to identify and nurture future university leaders while enhancing the skills, insight, and vision of current leaders. One of the University's greatest assets is our faculty and staff. Therefore, the Leadership Institute’s aim is to foster a broader understanding of the campus community, accelerate talent development, and hone individual and team leadership skills for faculty and staff at all levels of the University. To achieve these goals, TULI will offer development programs in leadership, supervisor training, credentialing, recertifications, and other programs to support faculty and staff. Goals of the Leadership Institute include: Enable personal and professional growth for every participant Ensure high levels of familiarity and interaction among faculty and staff from all areas of the University Create dialogue and discussion on topics important to the state of our University and its constituents Discuss the unique challenges and opportunities facing higher education and those specific to Tulane, to achieve successful outcomes for our university Ensure strong University leadership for the future Improve the University's overall performance Current Professional Development Programs Emerging Leaders Program Anti-Racism Leadership Program Supervisor/Manager Training Coming in 2022 *If you have any programs recommendations, please contact Rob Hailey or Kim Fleming to further discuss. Meet the TULI Team Robert Hailey Executive Director rhailey@tulane.edu Kim Fleming Director kfleming1@tulane.edu Hannah Sensenbrenner Manager hsensenbrenner@tulane.edu If you have questions, contact us at tuli@tulane.edu. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University