Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home Wave of Green Day of Service The Wave of Green Day of Service for faculty and staff, originally scheduled for Thursday, April 9 is being postponed given the quickly developing situation around coronavirus (COVID-19) and based on best practice guidance provided by the university. We will send out an announcement when a new date is confirmed, and we thank you for your understanding. Tulane’s motto, non sibi sed suis—which means, not for one’s self, but for one’s own—embodies who we are as Tulanians. Every year we come together for this day of service to celebrate that drive to work together to understand and improve the lives of those around us, and we raise one helluva hullabaloo while doing it. Join us for our annual faculty/staff day of service on Thursday, April 9, 2020. This year we will be volunteering with City Park, Grow Dat Youth Farm, Second Harvest, ARC of GNO, Hands on New Orleans and Clean it Up NOLA, as well as Northshore sites for primate center staff at the Northlake Nature Center and Habitat for Humanity ReStore in Mandeville. We will provide a commemorative T-shirt, round-trip transportation from campus, snacks and beverages at the volunteer sites, and are planning a closing lunch at Greer Field at Turchin Stadium for all participants. Volunteers are requested to check in at Greer Field at Turchin Stadium at 7:45 a.m. Buses will return to the stadium for the closing lunch. Registration Registration for the 2020 Day of Service is available for all Uptown, Downtown and Elmwood employees at https://tulane.edu/wave-green-registration. Coordinating service activities will take place at the Tulane National Primate Research Center for those faculty and staff members as well. Faculty and staff interested in volunteering for the center event should contact Stacey Schwankhart. Where we volunteer This year we will be volunteering with City Park, Grow Dat Youth Farm, Second Harvest, ARC of GNO, Hands on New Orleans and Clean it Up NOLA; as well as Northshore sites at the Northlake Nature Center and Habitat for Humanity ReStore in Mandeville. Representatives from the community organization you are assisting will provide you with a brief orientation/training when you arrive on site. Each site will also have an assigned Tulane University Site Captain, who will meet your bus at the service location. Tulane Site Captains can direct you to restrooms, water and snacks plus answer any questions you might have. What to wear Generally, participants should wear closed toed shoes. For those working outside, we recommend you wear a hat, sunscreen and bug spray. You will receive more detailed directions in your registration confirmation email. At check in you will receive a commemorative Day of Service T-shirt, which you are encouraged to wear that day. There will be bathrooms available at check in so that people can change into their shirts. Where to go Volunteers must check-in at Yulman Stadium and ride the buses to the service site. Registration begins at 7:45 and buses will depart at 8:15 am. Faculty and staff will work at their site from 9 am until noon. Buses will return to campus for the 2 p.m. BBQ at Glazer Family Club. Reporting time in Kronos There is a special pay code in the Kronos system created for the Day of Service (see question #4). The Day of Service will not count against your vacation or sick hours. Both exempt and non-exempt employees should log their time for the Day of Service by submitting a request for time off in Kronos and selecting the pay code “Day of Service,” In recognition of your service, volunteers are free to leave for the day following the celebratory lunch and do not need to return to work. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University