Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /About /Why Tulane Why Tulane We’d completely burn up your data plan if we listed every reason. But as long as you’re asking, we’ll warm you up with a few: Because Tulane offers one of the most flexible degree programs around. Once you’re admitted you can take classes in any of our undergraduate schools. Many of our students double- or even triple- major. Because you’re personally going to ensure this place will be better off when you leave than when you arrive. All of our students participate in community engagement before graduating. Because you can take classes like “New Orleans Cities of the Dead,” about cemetery architecture, or “The Music and Culture of New Orleans” as part of our TIDES (Tulane Inter-Disciplinary Experience Seminars) freshman seminars. The classes are cool but the way so much of what we do is woven into the fabric of our city is even cooler. Because we’ve got a food truck—a food truck!—on our meal plan. (And it’s named Roulez, which is pretty clever, if you ask us.) Because you and your friends are going places: more than 30 percent of our students study abroad during their time here. (You’re coming from places, too: Tulanians come from 58 countries and all 50 states.) Because we do our best to make a Tulane education affordable: All freshman are automatically considered for merit awards ranging from $10,000 to $32,000 per year. Because you’ll be set up for success: our Career Services Center has information and job postings for more than 1,600 companies. If continuing your education is in your plans, Tulane offers a number of 4+1 Master’s programs in the Liberal Arts and Science & Engineering. And our graduates are above the national average when it comes to applying to law and medical schools. And that’s just for starters. Feel free to rattle off any of those when you tell your friends why you’re ready to go over 300 miles to get to college. (85% of our students travel that far to get here, and come to think of it, why aren’t your friends coming here, too?) If you need more than bullet points to make a huge decision like where to go to college, though, chew on this. You’ve probably figured out that we have the “life” part of “school-life balance” down. The Princeton Review has us at or near the top of the list for Most Engaged in Community (#1), College City (#1), Happiest Students (#4), Best-Run College (#4), Quality of Life (#9) and Most Active Student Government (#12). But the “school” part is pretty amazing, too. You’ll learn from faculty like Walter Isaacson, the best-selling author and former leader of the Aspen Institute, and hear from guests like the Dalai Lama. You’ll have a chance to explore a city that was founded 300 years ago (but which has roots that go back even farther). With a nation-wide alumni network of over 140,000 people, many of whom are leaders in their fields, you’ll always have an in somewhere. And while it’s great to have a network, we also know our students are more than capable of doing great things on their own with our internship database shared by an elite group of universities including Duke, Brown, Harvard, Vanderbilt, Emory, and Princeton, and our one-credit career development course, “Majors, Internships, and Jobs,” that teaches skills in résumé building, interview preparation and professional social media. Rankings and Honors Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University