Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /About /Facts and Figures Facts and Figures Want to know more about Tulane? We offer degrees in architecture, business, law, liberal arts, medicine, public health and tropical medicine, the sciences and engineering, and social work but that’s just the beginning…. Motto Non sibi, sed suis, translated as "not for one's self, but for one's own." Founding Dates 1834, as Medical College of Louisiana 1847, Medical College merges with University of Louisiana 1884, Louisiana Legislature authorizes the Tulane Educational Fund to reorganize the University of Louisiana as a private institution and rename it Tulane University of Louisiana Read more about Tulane’s history or a timeline of events Academic Divisions Provost and senior vice president for academic affairs, Robin Forman Newcomb-Tulane College, Lee Skinner, dean A. B. Freeman School of Business, Ira Solomon, dean School of Architecture, Iñaki Alday, dean School of Professional Advancement, Suri Duitch, dean and vice president School of Law, David D. Meyer, dean School of Liberal Arts, Brian Edwards, dean School of Medicine, Lee Hamm, dean and senior vice president School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Thomas LaVeist, dean School of Science and Engineering, Kimberly Foster, dean School of Social Work, Patrick Bordnick, dean Enrollment 2020-2021 Undergraduate: 8,549 Graduate and Professional: 5,923 Total: 14,472 — 8,635 females and 5,837 males Find detailed enrollment profiles or visit Undergraduate Admission Tuition 2020-2021 $58,852, Newcomb-Tulane College $56,374, School of Law $67,364, School of Medicine (MD) $37,472, School of Social Work (MSW) $1,422/credit hour School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine $1,700/credit hour A. B. Freeman School of Business MBA program $524/credit hour (tuition only), School of Professional Advancement undergraduate Class of 2024 Tulane University’s admitted first-year students for fall 2024 represent the most diverse and academically qualified in Tulane’s history. 43,891 students applied to Tulane this year and 11 percent were admitted. The average ACT score for this cohort is 32. The class also represents growth in diversity: One-third is made up of students of color and international students from 20 countries. Campuses Tulane’s uptown campus includes 110 acres and 89 buildings, housing the majority of its schools and colleges. The F. Edward Hebert Research Center, near Belle Chasse, La., provides research facilities in medicine and environmental, behavioral and computer sciences. The School of Professional Advancement has a satellite campus in Elmwood Business Park in Jefferson Parish, La. The downtown health sciences campus has several divisions: School of Medicine, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, School of Social Work, Tulane Medical Center and Information Technology. The North Shore campus is home to the Tulane National Primate Research Center in Covington, La. Libraries The main Howard-Tilton Memorial Library houses the Latin American Library and Media Services. The Rudolph Matas Library is located in the School of Medicine. The Special Collections Division in Jones Hall includes the Hogan Archive of New Orleans Music and New Orleans Jazz, Southeastern Architectural Archive, University Archives, Rare Books and Manuscripts and the Louisiana Collection. Other libraries include architecture, botany, business, law, mathematics, natural history, primate research, race relations and ethnic history and women’s studies. Intercollegiate Athletics NCAA Division I-Bowl Member of American Athletic Conference Nickname: Green Wave Mascot: Riptide, the pelican Colors: Green and blue Visit Green Wave Athletics Full-Time Personnel Faculty: approximately 1,200 Staff: approximately 2,900 Senior Administrators Michael A. Fitts, president Troy Dannen, director of athletics Satyajit Dattagupta, vice president of enrollment management and dean of admission Robin Forman, provost and senior vice president for academic affairs Lee Hamm, senior vice president and dean, School of Medicine Victoria D. Johnson, general counsel Patrick Norton, senior vice president and chief operating officer J. Davidson "Dusty" Porter, vice president, student affairs Ginny Wise, senior vice president for advancement View a full list of key academic and administrative leaders Board of Tulane Carol L. Bernick, chair 35 active members 50 emeritus members View the full list of members of the Board of Tulane Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University