Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES International Admission New Orleans is unlike any other city in America. The food, music, architecture and culture drive students to Tulane from across the United States and many other countries around the world. A diverse student body not only enriches the knowledge of each student, it also provides an opportunity for new experiences while receiving an unmatched education in one of the world’s unique cities. New Orleans is, and always has been, an international city. Founded by the French, governed by Spain, and purchased by the U.S., our cultural roots are strongly African and Haitian. New Orleans is a port city, populated by waves of immigrants from Ireland, Germany, Italy, China, India, Central and South America and Vietnam. Located at the mouth of the Mississippi and on the Gulf of Mexico, New Orleans is also a gateway to Latin America. Undergraduates If you’re working toward a bachelor’s degree, your first stop is our admission office. Last year, more than 150 international students pursued undergraduate degrees at Tulane. Let our counselors help you with entry requirements, academics, living in New Orleans, tuition, and more. (Don’t rule us out based on cost: We offer up to $23,000 in need-based financial aid to international students who qualify and who have not already been awarded that amount or more in merit scholarships.) Graduate Students Each Tulane graduate program administers its own admissions process. If you’re pursuing a master’s degree or doctorate, contact the school or department you’d like to enter for more information. You can also contact the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies for general information about the graduate experience, including fellowships, grants and postdoctoral training opportunities that could help defray the cost of your studies. Visit! Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport is just 14 miles from campus, and more than a dozen airlines fly here. Getting here? Big easy, indeed. Book a campus tour! Help! Need a hand getting a visa, finding housing, improving your English or anything else related to your new life in the U.S.? Get in touch with our Office of International Students and Scholars—they’ve probably helped somebody else with exactly the same issue. Life at Tulane and in New Orleans Our international students make lifelong friendships with each other and with U.S. students. Tulane works to connect our students to life at the university and in New Orleans. We have dozens of International Student Organizations and lots of fun and meaningful International Student Programming. Incoming undergraduates will live on campus in residence halls with their U.S. peers. Graduate students may apply for housing at Deming Pavilion downtown. Many graduate students also choose to live off-campus to better engage with New Orleans. We’re sure you’ll enjoy exploring New Orleans, but when you’re feeling homesick, you’ll find lots of ways to connect with your home country. New Orleans is full of international festivals, restaurants and markets, including Vietnamese, Chinese, Indian and Latin American. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University