Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /About /Leadership and Administration Leadership and Administration Tulane’s leaders are dedicated to attracting and retaining the very best faculty, staff and students and to enhancing the university’s position as one of the world’s leading educational and research institutions. Our mission statement defines Tulane’s purpose and serves as the guiding principle for all decisions made by our leadership. The Board of Tulane is Tulane’s highest governing body. They provide guidance to the university’s executive leadership. The University Senate is an internal governing body, which consists of elected faculty, staff and student representatives. Handbooks, codes of conduct and policies document standards and practices that ensure the Tulane community adheres to the highest principles of respect and integrity. Tulane’s administrative departments provide essential services to keep the university running smoothly. Administrative Council Administrative Departments Board of Tulane Deans Executive Leadership Handbooks and Policies Mission Statement President Michael A. Fitts President's Cabinet Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University