Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /News & Events /On Good Authority Podcast On Good Authority Podcast On Good Authority is Tulane University’s official podcast. It features fresh perspectives and lively discussions from leading experts on global topics and issues of the day. Our experts explain an issue, answer challenging questions and help listeners better understand what’s important. Subscribe on your favorite app platform, and stay tuned for future episodes! Have a show idea or feedback? Fill out our form. Apple Stitcher Spotify LibSyn Season 2 Episodes: Episode 37 – Changing world, changing workplace Launched May 13, 2022 Proof that working Americans are thinking differently about jobs and careers is all around us. The pandemic arguably sped up changes that were already underway, making it necessary for higher education institutions to respond. Suri Duitch, dean of Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement, discusses these changes, and the obligation of colleges and universities to prepare today’s students for these quickly evolving workplace settings. Listen Now Episode 36 - Saving Louisiana’s coastline with recycled glass Launched April 29, 2022 Louisiana is losing land to coastal erosion at the rate of one football field every 100 minutes. Franziska Trautmann, an alumna of the Tulane School of Science and Engineering and co-founder of Glass Half Full, explains how her organization plans to fight coastal erosion by recycling Louisiana’s glass. Listen Now Episode 35 – Better brain health in the golden years Launched April 7, 2022 Dementia is on the rise worldwide, but advances in health care and healthier lifestyles mean the life expectancy of Americans is on the rise, too. Tulane physician Dr. Demetri Maraganore is working to make sure that as Americans advance in age, they do so in the best possible health. In this podcast Dr. Maraganore explains how to improve brain health in order to make the most of the senior years. Listen Now Episode 34 – The God, grades advantage Launched March 24, 2022 Does a belief in God and strong religious devotion give students an edge in the classroom? Tulane sociologist Ilana Horwitz explores the issue in her new book God, Grades and Graduation. Horwitz, assistant professor in the Department of Jewish Studies and the Fields-Rayant Chair in Contemporary Jewish Life at Tulane, discusses the surprising ways in which a religious upbringing shapes the academic lives of teens in the United States. Listen Now Episode 33 – Diversity in literature: The New Orleans Book Festival at Tulane Launched March 9, 2022 On this episode of On Good Authority, we sit down with writer Maurice Carlos Ruffin to discuss the inspiration behind his debut novel We Cast a Shadow and his most recent collection of short stories The Ones Who Don’t Say They Love You. An award-winning author, Ruffin has used fictional storytelling to raise awareness about race issues in America and highlight the people of New Orleans and the city’s culture. He is one of more than 100 authors taking part in the inaugural New Orleans Book Festival at Tulane University this week. Listen Now Episode 32 – Dancing in the streets: The history and future of New Orleans brass bands Launched February 25, 2022 Tulane School of Liberal Arts professor Matt Sakakeeny discusses the many aspects of New Orleans brass bands that set them apart. We explore the genre’s African and European origins, their important role in neighborhood social aid and pleasure clubs, and how new generations carry on the tradition while adding their own mark to the music. For more information on Sakakeeny’s research, visit his website. To learn more about The Roots of Music, visit their website. Listen Now Episode 31 – Love and Taylor Swift: Why romance music matters Launched February 10, 2022 Love songs make the world go round. But why? And what can we learn from their history? School of Liberal Arts professor Rien Fertel discusses why romance music (and icons like Taylor Swift) matter to the human experience. Listen Now Episode 30 – Finding answers about long COVID Launched January 20, 2022 Brain fog, forgetfulness and debilitating fatigue are some of the symptoms people are having months after contracting COVID-19. Doctors are still trying to understand why and how to best treat it. Neurologist Dr. Michele Longo founded the Tulane Neurology Post-COVID Care Clinic, one of the first in the country to help the growing number of patients dealing with lingering symptoms of long COVID. She talks about the latest treatments, what researchers are learning and how long most symptoms usually last. Listen Now Episode 29 – Girls, politics and gendered socialization Launched December 16, 2021 Why do children, especially girls, see the world of politics as one that is designed for and inhabited by men? School of Liberal Arts professors J. Celeste Lay and Mirya Holman break down the findings of their study of children’s political attitudes and gendered political socialization. Listen Now Episode 28 – Can we have a normal holiday this year? Launched November 18, 2021 Now that COVID-19 vaccines are widely available and mask mandates and restrictions on gatherings are no longer in place, is this the year that Thanksgiving and the holidays return to normal? Tulane epidemiologist Susan Hassig is back to answer all your questions about how to plan for the holidays this year — and stay safe from COVID-19. Listen Now Episode 27 – A Veterans Day conversation: Are we serving those who served us? Launched November 10, 2021 Military veterans endure, perhaps, the most physically and mentally demanding profession, from which few walk away without consequence. Medical care for veterans after they have served their country is a crucial resource for life. Tulane University’s Dr. Greg Stewart joins On Good Authority to discuss the challenges some of our heroes face when it comes to health care and a new treatment concept for veterans. Listen Now Episode 26 – Paying up: A new era of compensation for college athletes Launched October 14, 2021 Tulane University’s Gabe Feldman, one of the leading voices in the U.S. in the field of sports law, discusses college athletics’ new, profiting landscape, one where college athletes can now receive almost unlimited compensation for the first time. It’s a period unlike any other in the history of college sports and the beginning of a time of great uncertainty. What does the future hold for the NCAA? Is this the new wild west for college athletics? What will happen to the decades-long system that has controlled the multibillion-dollar industry that is college athletics? Listen Now Episode 25 – Pivoting away from oil and gas Launched September 30, 2021 Tulane Energy Institute Executive Director Pierre Conner of Tulane’s A. B. Freeman School of Business talks about what’s in store for the energy industry as the U.S. and other countries transition away from fossil fuels. Which states are leading in the race to become more sustainable and how will oil and gas dependent states like Louisiana adapt to a rapidly changing energy landscape? Listen Now Episode 24 – History repeats itself Launched August 27, 2021 The Delta variant of COVID-19 continues to surge across the country. Tulane expert John Barry answers questions about what insight pandemics of the past can give us about what to expect next as this fourth wave continues to unfold. Listen Now Season 1 Episodes ▾ Episode 23 – Ransomware attacks: How secure are we? Launched August 5, 2021 Ransomware attacks are up 300 percent this year compared to 2020. Anyone who uses an electronic device, whether it’s a simple cellular phone or computers that runs small or large businesses, is at risk for a ransomware attack. But how does a society defend itself against an unseen enemy and an impending cyberattack? Tulane cybersecurity expert Randy Magiera discusses how hacking occurs, what to do following a ransomware attack and how to avoid becoming a victim. Listen Now Episode 22 – Delta Rising: Who’s at risk as a new COVID-19 variant spreads? Launched July 20, 2021 Tulane epidemiologist Susan Hassig answers questions about the highly contagious Delta variant — what’s at stake for low-vaccinated states, what we know about breakthrough cases among the vaccinated and what people should do to protect themselves as the virus that causes COVID-19 continues to mutate. Listen Now Episode 21 – Torch song: producing the opening ceremony Launched July 13, 2021 The only thing that may rival the inspiring athletes at the Olympics is the pageantry of the Olympic opening ceremony. What does it take to put on such a memorable spectacle broadcast live around the world? Tulane’s own Director of Bands Barry Spanier discusses his experience producing and directing music for two opening ceremonies and shares the magic and ingenuity required to produce the historic event. Listen Now Episode 20 – The future of policing Launched June 29, 2021 Tulane University Associate Professor of Sociology and Africana Studies Andrea Boyles, a race scholar, ethnographer and author, discusses what we have learned about police interactions and in the year that has passed since George Floyd died in Minneapolis. Listen Now Episode 19 – President Michael Fitts discusses future of Tulane with Walter Isaacson Launched May 10, 2021 On this special episode, bestselling author and Tulane faculty member Walter Isaacson sits down with Tulane President Michael A. Fitts to discuss the resiliency of the university, his time at Tulane, and what the future holds for the university. Listen Now Episode 18 – How to eat better for the planet Launched April 23, 2021 Food production accounts for about a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions across the globe. Yet, diet is often overlooked as an important factor in climate change. Tulane nutritionist Diego Rose found that if we changed our diets by swapping out just one item each day, Americans could greatly reduce our carbon footprint from food. He discusses how food choices affect the environment and ways people can make their diets healthier — for themselves and the planet. Listen Now Episode 17 – Voices of New Orleans Launched March 23, 2021 A New Orleans native may ask you where you went to high school and who your mama is. Those are ways we create connections around the city. Another way we identify New Orleanians is by our accents. Nathalie Dajko, associate professor of anthropology at the School of Liberal Arts and researcher of New Orleans accents, discusses the origins of various local accents and how they evolve over time. Listen to examples of various New Orleans accents referenced by Professor Dajko. Listen Now Episode 16 – COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy Launched March 2, 2021 Black Americans are more likely to die from COVID-19, yet communities of color are falling behind in the nation’s vaccine rollout. One of the nation’s leading experts in health disparities, Thomas LaVeist, dean of Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, talks about vaccine hesitancy in the Black community, what can be done to increase confidence in the vaccine, and how the pandemic has exposed long standing health inequities in the United States. Listen Now Episode 15 – A nation of lonely hearts: Cardiovascular health in a pandemic Launched February 23, 2021 Leading cardiologist Dr. Keith Ferdinand at Tulane University School of Medicine talks about how stress and social isolation from the pandemic may be undermining our heart health, what researchers are learning about how Covid-19 affects the heart and what people at any age should know about keeping their hearts healthy. Listen Now Episode 14 – Game Stopped: How meme stocks are upending Wall Street Launched February 11, 2021 GameStop came roaring back from the ‘90s over the course of a few short days in January of 2021. How did GameStop become the hottest stock overnight and the talk of Wall Street? Tulane business professor Peter Ricchiuti talks about how the meme stock came to be, what the fallout will look like, and the future of small investors going forward. Peter is also the founder of Burkenroad Reports and host of the business podcast “Out to Lunch.” Listen Now Episode 13 – The 15 White Coats Launched February 2, 2021 Sydney Labat and Rachel Turner, third-year students at Tulane School of Medicine and co-founders of an organization called The 15 White Coats, discuss why they decided to become physicians, the meaning of being a Black physician, and their viral photograph, taken in front of a former slave quarter, that symbolized Black excellence. Listen Now Episode 12 – COVID’s Impact on New Orleans Musicians Launched January 26, 2021 Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, New Orleans musicians have borne the brunt of living in an economy where live music poses a threat to public health. Melissa Weber, curator of the Hogan Jazz Archive with Tulane University Special Collections, discusses how musicians are adapting and how this may impact New Orleans musicians’ legacies. Listen Now Episode 11 – Being Your Best Health Advocate Launched January 12, 2021 From routine checkups to end of life wishes, our health care doesn’t have to depend on a stranger in a white coat. Dr. Jacey Jones, academic hospitalist and assistant professor of clinical medicine in the Tulane Section of General Internal Medicine, shares how to approach medical visits and ensure we play an active role in our health and wellness. Listen Now Episode 10 – Food for Thought: changing your food mindset Launched December 22, 2020 How can we make and implement better, healthier habits as we continue to navigate pandemic life in 2021? To figure that out, Heather Nace, Director of the Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine at Tulane University talks about tips and tricks to help make successful, sustainable changes to your diet. Listen Now Episode 9 – Hit Me with Your Best Shot: Are Americans ready to roll up their sleeves for a COVID-19 vaccine? Launched December 8, 2020 When will most people have a realistic shot at getting their first doses of a COVID-19 vaccine? And will Americans trust the science behind a fast-tracked process to get them to market as soon as possible to end a public health crisis? Health economist Charles Stoecker, a vaccine policy expert at Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, talks about the five leading COVID-19 vaccines and answers questions about what the rollout will look like — and whether the end of the pandemic is in sight. Listen Now Episode 8 – Climate Change: Resilience Is Not Enough Launched November 24, 2020 Wildfires in the west, a very active hurricane season, and repeated flooding from sea level rise: climate change has recently made significant headlines in an already unprecedented year. Jesse Keenan, a leading scholar on climate change and the built environment with Tulane’s School of Architecture, discusses how climate change impacts our lives and the importance of adaptation. Listen Now Episode 7 – Talkin’ Turkey with an Epidemiologist Launched November 10, 2020 Is it safe to bring friends and family together for the holidays in a pandemic? Epidemiologist Susan Hassig answers COVID-19 safety questions about how to plan for Thanksgiving, what to consider for travel and holiday gatherings and whether this should be the year for Zoom celebrations. Read more from Dr. Hassig about winter and managing COVID-19 risks. Listen Now Episode 6 – Special Edition: Election Law & The Presidential Race Launched November 6, 2020 Several states are still counting ballots and the results will determine who leads the U.S. for the next four years. Tulane constitutional law expert Stephen Griffin explains what is happening now and how the 2020 race could change future elections. Listen Now Episode 5 – No Rest for the Weary: 2020 Insomnia is Real Launched October 27, 2020 How much is anxiety impacting our sleep habits and what can we do to combat those endless sleepless nights? Tonya Hansel in the Tulane School of Social Work gives tips for incorporating healthy sleep habits into our bedtime routine. For more information on healthy habits, check out these self-care resources. Listen Now Episode 4 – Kids, COVID and Halloween Launched October 20, 2020 Pediatrician and child and adolescent psychiatrist Dr. Lauren Teverbaugh discusses why celebrating milestones like Halloween are still important, how to talk to your family about celebrating safely and brainstorming new traditions during COVID. Learn more about Dr. Teverbaugh's work here. Listen Now Episode 3 – Pandemic Pivot: How to make big changes when the world shifts Launched October 13, 2020 Julia Lang is the associate director of career education and life design at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking at Tulane. Her class “Taylor Your Life” helps students learn how to plan a fulfilling life and career. The same principles in her course are in “(Re)Designing Your Life in a post COVID-19 world,” her step-by-step guide to making big decisions in uncertain times. Click here to read her guide, which includes the worksheets she mentions in the podcast. To learn more about her life design class, visit: https://taylor.tulane.edu/life-design/ Listen Now Episode 2 – Conspiracy Theories Launched October 6, 2020 What are conspiracy theories? Who buys into them? In confusing times like a global pandemic are we more susceptible and willing to believe in them? A discussion with Geoff Dancy, associate professor of political science at Tulane who teaches a course about conspiracy theories, answers questions about how we process information and why people are willing to believe. Listen Now Episode 1 – Is COVID-19 Immunity Possible? Launched September 23, 2020 Researchers are discovering that COVID-19 antibodies can vanish in as little as two months after infection. What does that mean for those who’ve recovered and efforts to find a vaccine? A discussion with virologist Bob Garry and immunologist James McLachlan about what we’ve learned about antibodies and why the innate immune system may be more important in fighting off the virus than first realized. Listen Now Submit Your Idea Find an Expert Tulane in the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University