Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Our Core Values Leading for a Better Tomorrow Knowledge for Good Unconventional Innovation Inclusive Community Collaborative Engagement Inspiring Excellence Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Tulane University Core Values Tulane University’s Core Values At Tulane we are strengthening our core – the shared values, both current and aspirational, that embody our university, support our mission, drive our decisions and inspire us to do more and be more. These values were developed from surveys and focus groups made up of students, faculty and staff from throughout our university. They are described and illustrated on the pages below through words, photos and real-life stories. More importantly, they are put into practice on a daily basis by the members of the Tulane community for the benefit of the global neighborhood we serve. Leading for a Better Tomorrow With confidence, courage and humility, Tulanians help lead the way to a better future. We aim to advance society by boldly confronting global challenges and unleashing the opportunities and promise of tomorrow. This is part of our collective DNA, as reflected in our mission statement: “to create, communicate, and conserve knowledge in order to enrich the capacity of individuals, organizations, and communities to think, to learn, and to act and lead with integrity and wisdom.” Knowledge for Good In our pursuit of knowledge for the greater good, we prioritize scholarship and research, discovery and a commitment to creating a more sustainable future for all. From our founding purpose of confronting yellow fever and other 19th century infectious diseases to addressing modern-day health threats such as COVID-19, environmental challenges and other global problems, Tulane has long been a hub of meaningful exploration and discovery. We teach our students to love knowledge both for its own sake and for the sake of using that knowledge to tackle the most pressing issues of our time. Unconventional Innovation With ingenuity and a growth mindset, we bring together bold and creative scholars, scientists and students who are committed to crossing, combining and redefining the boundaries that have separated fields and thwarted true innovation. Through our unique educational and research vision, we employ unconventional innovation and outsized ambition to create uncommon results. Inclusive Community An inclusive community supports an environment of equity, diversity, compassion, respect, and opportunity. We strive to make Tulane a more supportive home for all, and we must be open-hearted and willing to learn from past mistakes to build a better tomorrow. We create living, learning, and work environments where we take active steps wherever possible to reduce inequities experienced by our community members who are underrepresented and underserved. We have a shared destiny, common humanity, and a better future that we can only reach by working together. Diversity is a hallmark of a great university committed to creating a more equitable and inclusive future. This is the university Tulane aspires to be. Collaborative Engagement Tulane is rooted in the idea that looking outwards leads to impactful, real-world solutions that make a difference in the lives of others. Our contributions to society are evident in the lives we transform and problems we solve. We are driven by knowing all of the good we can accomplish with integrity, freedom of expression, partnership and engagement with our community, our region and our world. Inspiring Excellence We are purpose-driven and intentional in everything we do – from our groundbreaking research to teaching to public service. Our distinctive attitude, grit and passion inspire our commitment to excellence. As we continue to grow and prepare the next generation of leaders, we task ourselves to seek more, do more and be more. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University