Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Equity, Diversity & Inclusion To become a truly great university – defined by breakthrough discovery, world-class scholarship and transformative personal growth and enrichment – Tulane must be an equitable, diverse and inclusive community that welcomes and supports a diverse array of students, faculty and staff. We must foster an environment where each member of our academic family, particularly our Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) and other underrepresented members, are not only supported but are able to thrive. Over the past several years, we have made great progress together, but we know we must do more. Tulane is committed to the advancement of all members of our community. The university has a variety of initiatives, resources and support mechanisms – you can explore many of them here. Learn more about the 2022 Anti-Racism and Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Teach-in for Faculty and Staff. Offices & Centers | Initiatives | Resources | News and Updates Offices & Centers These established areas within the university proactively engage and support our students academically, socially and culturally. Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion ALAAMEA Alliance The Carolyn Barber Pierre Center for Intercultural Life Center for Academic Equity Office of Human Resources and Institutional Equity Presidential Commission on Racial Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives A Plan for Now provides structure and direction for initiatives that will have an immediate and positive impact toward becoming a more equitable, diverse and inclusive Tulane. Building Naming Task Force EDI Funding Initiative History Project Leadership Institute Louisiana Promise Partnering with Purpose A Strategy for Tomorrow Trailblazers Resources These resources are in place to support our community and provide avenues for reporting. Report A Concern/Incident Student Resources Submit Feedback News and Updates All of our initiatives have the single, urgent goal of building and sustaining an anti-racist environment and a community where all are welcomed, supported and valued – these efforts are essential for creating a world-class institution that conducts the best research, offers the best education and has the greatest positive impact on the world. Michael A. Fitts President, Tulane University Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University