Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Undergraduate Education Five undergraduate schools. 1,700 classes. 75 majors. (And enough flexibility to double-major that it would take a team of mathematicians to figure out how many combinations you could come up with.) Why Study at Tulane? Majors and Minors Core Curriculum Study Abroad Once you pick a major, you’ll become part of one of these undergraduate schools: School of Architecture A. B. Freeman School of Business School of Liberal Arts School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine School of Science and Engineering No matter which major you ultimately choose, all full-time undergraduates enter the university as part of the Newcomb-Tulane College. The college will be your academic home during your career here; it’s also where you’ll turn for academic services, including advising, honors, study abroad programs, and other support. No matter which school you’re in, you’re going to forge relationships with your faculty, noted scholars who actually teach you (no departments full of adjuncts and TAs here). Those faculty are going to take you on a journey. Some of you will travel far: about a third of you will study abroad while you’re here, participating in 100 programs in more than 40 countries. Even if you stay right here, though, you’re going to stretch your boundaries. We’re big believers in making a difference right now. So even though our interdisciplinary offerings will give you the tools to have an impact across a vast sea of careers once you graduate, there’s work to do immediately. So we became the first private research university to make community engagement a graduation requirement. What does this mean to you? For one, you’ll learn better when you “learn by doing.” Studies have shown that students who take a course that includes service learning understand the material better. Other requirements: We have a well-rounded, interdisciplinary core curriculum that will expose you to the humanities, fine arts, social sciences and sciences. In addition, you’ll participate in the TIDES (Tulane Interdisciplinary Experience Seminar) program during your first year here, which will give you an academic’s-eye view of your new home, New Orleans. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University