Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Visit / Visit Campus custom css-js - global Visit Campus Campus Tours Daily Campus Tours Large Group Tours Arts/Architecture Tours Our Tour Guides VirTUal Visiting Class Visits Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights Interactive Campus Map Getting Here Eat, Stay, Play Eating in New Orleans Where To Stay Celebrated Events Our Favorite Places The Office of Undergraduate Admission is open for campus tours. Campus Tours To ensure the health and safety of visitors and Tulane staff, we are implementing the following guidelines: Proof of vaccination or a 72-hour negative Covid-19 test is required to visit campus. Proof may be presented in physical or electronic form. Campus tours will be given to small groups. We ask that students visiting campus bring no more than one parent or guardian to accompany them on their tour. Social distancing will be practiced on tours and during information sessions held prior to tours. If you are not able to or comfortable with attending the campus tour you signed up for, please cancel your tour registration. Please only sign up for a session if you are comfortable and confident that you will attend. Sign Up For a Campus TourExplore Our Virtual Platform Tours begin with a brief information session in the admission office, located in 210 Gibson Hall at 6823 St. Charles Avenue, in the Uptown area of New Orleans. Sign up for a campus tour. Schedule a tour for 8 or more peopleSchedule an Arts or Architecture tour Special Programs We offer several on-campus admission programs, in addition to our daily campus tours and information sessions, that give you an in-depth look at life at Tulane. Tulane Receptions Meet Tulane admission counselors when they come to you! Tulane hosts several receptions in cities throughout the country for interested students each fall, and for admitted students each spring. Preparing for Your Visit Hotels in New Orleans Recommended restaurants Places to visit Events to enjoy Calendar of campus and NOLA events Getting to campus Interactive Campus Map Campus Tours Daily Campus Tours Large Group Tours Arts/Architecture Tours Our Tour Guides VirTUal Visiting Class Visits Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights Interactive Campus Map Getting Here Eat, Stay, Play Eating in New Orleans Where To Stay Celebrated Events Our Favorite Places Did You Know? The Center for Public Service at Tulane University was started in 2006 to ensure that Tulane students learn outside the classroom through giving back to the community. Tulane offers over 100 courses with service-learning components. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University