Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Research /COVID-19 Research Coronavirus Research and Innovation Since our founding, Tulane researchers have been at the forefront of combatting infectious disease. Latest News Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects The American Heart Association has awarded Tulane University researchers $940,000 to study how COVID-19 spurs vascular inflammation that may increase risks for blood clots and lingering symptoms of long COVID. Dr. Xuebin Qin, professor of microbiology and immunology at the Tulane National Primate Research Center, will lead a cross-disciplinary team. Read More Featured Expert Bob Garry, professor of microbiology and immunology A leading expert in virology, Bob Garry is part of a team decoding the genome of the coronavirus to determine its origins and how it possibly evolved from bats and pangolins. Garry also has worked extensively to develop rapid diagnostics, vaccines and new therapies for infectious diseases like Lassa virus and Ebola. Coronavirus Research Tony Hu, PhD, Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Biotechnology Innovation Tony Hu is a pioneer in developing advanced diagnostics for personalized medicine. Hu is working to develop highly sensitive blood or saliva tests that rely on nanotechnology to help doctors quickly diagnose COVID-19. Lina Moses, PhD, assistant professor of epidemiology and disease ecology Disease ecologist Lina Moses, PhD, is a leading expert in tropical virology. She spent time in Geneva coordinating research efforts for WHO and the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network. James “Mac” Hyman, mathematics professor Mac Hyman is developing mathematical models to better understand and predict the spread of COVID-19. His research provides a methodology to predict the number of new infections five, 10 and 15 days into the future. Read More Jay Rappaport, PhD, Tulane National Primate Research Center director Under the direction of Jay Rappaport, Tulane National Primate Research Center is establishing a research program to develop a vaccine for the virus. He is leading a team to create one of the first nonhuman primate models of the disease. Read More QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications Submit Your Question Can’t find the information you are looking for? Please click on the button below. Submit Your Question COVID-19 REPORTING As we monitor COVID-19 cases on campus, we are asking members of the Tulane Community to fill out this form if they have tested positive for the virus or are awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test from a facility off-campus (anywhere other than Campus Health or the Tulane Testing Centers). This information will help us to reduce the spread of the disease by making sure appropriate areas of campus are cleaned and disinfected and your contacts are notified. COVID-19 Reporting Form Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University