Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search Spring 2021 leadership ‘‘Come Together.’’ The secret of President Michael Fitts’ seven strong years at Tulane as he leads in an unprecedented era.Continue Reading computer science Algorithms Run the World As artificial intelligence grows by leaps and bounds, Tulane computer scientists are there, in the thick of Big Data and its influence on decisions in all aspects of life. Continue Reading linguistics Where Y’at, Dawlin’? Linguists Katie Carmichael and Nathalie Dajko are studying the New Orleans dialect. Deterred for a while by the pandemic, they plan to continue their quest to document, analyze — and share — what they’ve discovered about post-Katrina language variations. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Audio music American Roots: Ellis Marsalis Remembered academics Feminist Approach Audio New Orleans Voices of New Orleans Video medicine Dr. Keith Ferdinand: Vaccine Skepticism Audio public health Thomas LaVeist: Vaccine Hesitancy Video music Tulane-Newcomb Choir: Build a Song music Tulane-Newcomb Choir: Good Night, Dear Heart Also In This Issue Spring 2021 View as PDF Issue Archive President, New Orleans Great Cities Need Great Universities Urban universities are defined by the cities they call home and cities with great universities are set apart by their vitality, innovation, originality and diversity. Continue Reading English, liberal arts, culture Gentilly Days New Yorker, New York Times contributor and creative writing professor Thomas Beller embarks on a road trip to pursue the meaning of class and the truth about the iconic 1960s Southern novels The Moviegoer and To Kill a Mockingbird. Continue Reading public health, epidemiology A Good Night’s Sleep A Tulane study found that adults with the healthiest sleep patterns had a 42 percent lower risk of heart failure regardless of other risk factors compared to adults with unhealthy sleep patterns. Continue Reading music, culture, liberal arts Song of Inclusiveness Music professor leads virtual choir in song of inclusiveness Continue Reading campus, health, wellness Vaccine Rollout In January, Tulane University began administering the first doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to faculty, staff and students eligible under Louisiana Department of Health guidelines. Continue Reading athletics Something to Prove Green Wave pitcher Braden Olthoff is ready to show his stuff during this spring season. Continue Reading gender and sexuality studies, academics Feminist Approach The sudden switch to remote learning in March 2020 forced Tulane students and faculty to quickly adapt to an online classroom environment, while the limitations of technology presented unique challenges in forging meaningful classroom connections. Continue Reading New Orleans Morgus Is Missed Of all the talented, learned, likable celebrities and public figures we lost in 2020, locally one will be severely missed because of all the laughter he brought into our lives: Dr. Momus Alexander Morgus, the host of TV’s “The House of Shock.” Continue Reading Latin American studies, research, academics Family Papers The Latin American Library at Tulane has acquired by donation the Chamorro Barrios Family Papers (1767–1997), one of Latin America’s most influential families and key players in the national life of Nicaragua since the 18th century. Continue Reading medicine, public health, degrees, community health Medicine and Public Health on the Front Lines Tulane’s MD/MPH joint degree program has trained physician leaders for 50 years — and counting. Continue Reading tulanians, liberal arts, English Impression: Micah Cohen As an undergraduate at Tulane, journalist Micah Cohen (TC ’05) was hopeful of writing the “great American novel.” Continue Reading tulanians, law Impression: Zachary St. Martin When Zachary St. Martin (E ’97, L ’01) joined Sony Pictures Entertainment’s Digital and TV Distribution Group, he brought not starry eyes but instead a keen vision for closing deals and product counseling. Continue Reading tulanians, law Impression: Shauna Clark A Tulane Law alumna has been named Global and U.S. Chair of Norton Rose Fulbright, becoming the first woman of color to hold both positions. Continue Reading wavemakers Yulman Family Expands Scholarship Opportunities with $5 Million Matching-Challenge Gift The family who led the charge to build Tulane’s Yulman Stadium has contributed a $5 million matching-challenge gift to increase scholarship opportunities. Continue Reading wavemakers Richard Lerner Donates $5 Million for Presidential Chair A $5 million gift from Tulane alumnus Richard M. Lerner (A and S ’81, B ’83) will create the university’s eighth Presidential Chair, devoted to increasing the world’s scientific understanding of aging and longevity. Continue Reading wavemakers Don and Lora Peters Make a $1 Million Gift to Tulane Athletics Don and Lora Peters gave a $1 million gift in support of an expansion and renovation of Tulane Athletics’ academic center. Since the beginning of Tulane University’s Only the Audacious campaign, the couple has given over $4 million in support of Tulane Athletics. Continue Reading wavemakers Pritzker Donates $1 Million Gift and $1 Million Matching Challenge Tulane has received a $1 million gift — and an additional matching-challenge grant of up to $1 million — from the TAWANI Foundation, led by Col. (IL) Jennifer N. Pritzker, IL ARNG (Retired). The gift will establish the Audrey G. Ratner Excellence Endowed Fund for American Jewry and Jewish Culture in the School of Liberal Arts. Continue Reading wavemakers River-Coastal Science and Engineering Department Receives $3 Million Hubbell Gift The School of Science and Engineering has received a $2 million gift to establish and endow the Charlotte Beyer Hubbell Chair and $1 million for an Excellence Fund in River-Coastal Science and Engineering. Continue Reading In Brief campus TESTING, TESTING, TRACING The rigorous schedule for testing for the novel coronavirus continues on the Tulane campuses this spring. Students are required to participate in ongoing surveillance testing throughout the semester regardless of vaccine status or the presence of antibodies from a previous COVID-19 infection. Masking and social distancing guidelines are also still in effect. The COVID-19 Dashboard on the Tulane website tracks the results of the testing, both positive and negative, for students, faculty and staff. Active cases, including students in isolation in Paterson Hall and the Jung Hotel and in quarantine at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, are also documented in real time. Throughout the pandemic, Tulane’s positivity rate has remained substantially lower than the city’s and state’s. visit https://tulane.it/testing-testing-tracing liberal arts QUOTED: CHERYL LANDRIEU “This event promises to be an exciting and engaging literary gathering for our local, national and Tulane communities. We can’t wait to welcome authors and book lovers to campus.” visit https://tulane.it/cheryl-landrieu-book-fest-2021 academics JUDGE A. LEON HIGGINBOTHAM SCHOLARSHIPS Five students will receive a total of $100,000 for their work in promoting racial equity, justice or diversity initiatives as the first recipients of the Judge A. Leon Higginbotham Scholarship. The scholarship, a part of Tulane’s A Plan for Now, was established through a personal donation of President Michael A. Fitts and his wife, Renée J. Sobel, Esq. The recipients will receive funds between $8,000 and $10,000 per year through the scholarship, which will be renewed each semester. visit https://tulane.it/higginbotham-2021 academics LOUISIANA PROMISE President Michael A. Fitts announced Louisiana Promise, a new initiative that will make a Tulane undergraduate degree more accessible and affordable for Louisiana residents from low- and middle-income families and increase access to higher education for all students in New Orleans. New programs associated with the initiative include debt-free financial awards, a pre-college summer program and a new college preparatory center. visit https://tulane.it/louisiana-promise athletics SUPERBOWL TEAMS Two former Green Wave football players — Ryan Griffin and Thakarius “BoPete” Keyes — were on teams that made it to the NFL Super Bowl championship in February. Former Tulane quarterback Griffin, in his sixth year in the NFL, was part of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers Super Bowl LV team, serving as third-string backup quarterback to Tom Brady. Griffin spent his first two professional seasons on the New Orleans Saints’ practice squad. In his rookie season in the NFL, cornerback Keyes is on the Kansas City Chiefs team. visit https://tulane.it/superbowl-teams sociology UNITED NATIONS DELEGATE Andrea Boyles, associate professor of sociology and Africana studies at the School of Liberal Arts, has been appointed as a delegate to the United Nations Economic and Social Council, providing expertise on such issues as reproductive health and violence against women. Boyles is serving on the council in her capacity as secretary for Sociologists for Women in Society, an organization that supports cutting-edge feminist research and promotes social justice through local, national and international activism. visit https://tulane.it/united-nations-delegate-2021 academics MARSHALL SCHOLAR Kendall Gardner, a graduate of the Class of 2020, won a George C. Marshall Scholarship, becoming the second Tulanian in two consecutive years to be honored with the award. (Praveena Fernes, featured in the fall 2020 Tulanian, won the award last year.) Marshall Scholarships are awarded annually to 40 recipients or fewer and provide support for young Americans to study for a graduate degree in the United Kingdom. Like Fernes, Gardner is going to London, where she will pursue master’s degrees in political theory and international social and public policy at the London School of Economics and Political Science. visit https://tulane.it/marshall-scholar-2021 research SALIVA TEST Tulane researchers developed a 15-minute saliva-based COVID-19 test that is read by a smartphone. The assay platform developed by Tony Hu, Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Biotechnology Innovation at the School of Medicine, and associates can detect very small amounts of SARS-CoV-2 virus RNA in saliva by leveraging CRISPR, the revolutionary gene editing technology. visit https://tulane.it/saliva-test research IMMUNE RESPONSE A study led by Monica Vaccari, associate professor of microbiology and immunology at Tulane National Primate Research Center, suggests that in the early weeks of post-infection of COVID-19, the stronger the initial host immune response, the worse the disease outcome. While the body mounts a pro-inflammatory “innate” immune response as a first line of defense to protect against the spread of infection and heal damaged tissue, it is a dysregulated or over-reactive immune response that can cause severe damage, Vaccari’s study explains. visit https://tulane.it/immune-response research REOPENING K-12 SCHOOLS According to a new study by the National Center for Research on Education Access and Choice at Tulane, reopening K-12 schools in the U.S. did not result in an increase in hospitalizations due to COVID-19. Co-authors Douglas Harris, chair of the Department of Economics, and Engy Ziedan, assistant professor of economics, found no evidence that reopening schools in-person or in a hybrid form increased COVID-19 hospitalizations in the 75 percent of counties that had low hospitalization rates during the summer prior to reopening schools. visit https://tulane.it/reopening-k-12-schools research HARDEST HIT Tulane will launch an outreach initiative to reach ethnic and racial minority communities in Louisiana that are disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Louisiana Community Engagement Alliance, of which Tulane is a part, is working with residents, community leaders, health centers, faith-based organizations, pharmacies and the Louisiana Department of Health. The work is being funded by a $1 million grant from the National Institutes of Health. visit https://tulane.it/hardest-hit research DRUG TREATMENT BOOST Work on a new COVID-19 drug by a Tulane researcher is getting fast-tracked. Dr. Jay Kolls, a professor of medicine and pediatrics, the John W. Deming Endowed Chair in Internal Medicine, and director of the Center for Translational Research in Infection and Inflammation, has received a $100,000 Fast Grant for his research to create a drug that prevents the COVID-19 virus from entering healthy cells. visit https://tulane.it/drug-treatment-boost research SUPERSPREADERS Researchers at Tulane, Harvard, MIT and Massachusetts General Hospital have learned that subjects who were older with higher body mass indexes and an increasing degree of COVID-19 infection had three times the number of exhaled respiratory droplets — key spreaders of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 — as others in the study groups. The increase in exhaled aerosols occurred even among those with asymptomatic cases of COVID-19, said Chad Roy, corresponding author and director of infectious disease aerobiology at the Tulane National Primate Research Center. visit https://tulane.it/superspreaders campus DINING SERVICES DONATES TO FOOD BANK Tulane Dining Services donated $8,000 in nutritious bars, cookies and snacks to Second Harvest, a food bank that fights hunger in South Louisiana. During the last hurricane season, Tulane Dining had purchased these shelf-stable foods for students so they could shelter in place during the storms. Second Harvest provides food and support to over 700 community partners and programs across 23 parishes. Its staff and volunteers distribute the equivalent of more than 32 million meals to over 210,000 people a year. visit https://tulane.it/dining-services-donates medicine VETERANS’ BRAIN HEALTH The Tulane University Center for Brain Health is a new program created to address the unique medical needs of members of the armed forces. The center, housed in the Tulane Medical Center, will specialize in the care of military veterans of any discharge status and specialize in the treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. visit https://tulane.it/veterans-brain-health research CARDIOVASCULAR HEALTH DISPARITIES Tulane will recruit and train community health workers to implement a comprehensive health and lifestyle coaching program for congregants in predominantly African American churches in New Orleans and Bogalusa, Louisiana, to help eliminate cardiovascular health disparities among African Americans. This work will be funded by a $8.7 million grant from the National Institutes of Health. The program will focus on healthy eating, exercise, weight loss, improving cholesterol numbers, addressing high blood pressure and controlling other risk factors. visit https://tulane.it/cardiovascular-health-program public health QUOTED: THOMAS LAVEIST “I completely understand the mistrust. But you have to consider the risk of COVID versus the risk of the vaccine. This is a devastating disease and it has disproportionately impacted Black Americans. That is what we do know.” visit https://tulane.it/thomas-laveist-ap-news-2020 history BOOK OF THE YEAR Katrina: A History, 1915-2015, written by Andy Horowitz, an assistant professor of history at the School of Liberal Arts, was named the Humanities Book of the Year by the Louisiana Endowment for the Humanities. visit https://tulane.it/leh-book-of-the-year history WALTER ISAACSON TIME COVER STORY Leonard Lauder Professor of American History and Values Walter Isaacson wrote the cover story, “The Vaccine Revolution,” for TIME Magazine’s Jan. 18 issue. In his story, Isaacson writes about his experience being in a clinical trial for the COVID-19 vaccine, how the COVID-19 vaccines by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech were developed and the role of mRNA. “The plague year of 2020 will be remembered as the time when these traditional vaccines were supplanted by something fundamentally new: genetic vaccines, which deliver a gene or piece of genetic code into human cells,” he wrote. visit https://tulane.it/walter-isaacson-time-2021 economics MURPHY INSTITUTE DIRECTOR Gary “Hoov” Hoover, scholar and nationally renowned economist in the study of economic policy and its impact on wealth and income inequality, is the new director of Tulane’s Murphy Institute and full professor in economics. Hoover, who stepped into his role as director in January, said at the time of his appointment, “The opportunity to have discussions about the most challenging economic, moral and political problems of our time is an honor that I cannot wait to begin.” visit https://tulane.it/murphy-institute-director Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008