Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Stronger TUgether /Health Strategy /About Coronavirus About Coronavirus The global health and safety community continues to learn about this new virus. Because this information is continually evolving, the information covered in this section provides a basic level of understanding regarding the virus. Refer to the CDC website for the latest information. What is Coronavirus? SARS-CoV-2 is a betacoronavirus that causes the illness COVID-19. Betacoronaviruses include viruses such as SARS-CoV-1, which was responsible for the outbreak of SARS in 2003, and MERS-CoV, which was responsible for the outbreak of MERS or Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome. A large percentage of people infected with COVID-19 are asymptomatic (do not have any signs of infection) or have mild symptoms of COVID-19; however, these people can still spread the virus and have been found to be a significant source of transmission. Refer to the CDC website for the latest information. What are the Signs and Symptoms of COVID-19? People with COVID-19 can experience mild to severe respiratory illness. Symptoms attributed to COVID-19 include: Fever or chills Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fatigue Muscle or body aches Headache New loss of taste or smell Sore throat Congestion or runny nose Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea For those who are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19: Students should schedule a telehealth visit through Campus Health Patient Portal or contact their healthcare provider. Employees should contact their healthcare provider. If you experience any of the following symptoms of COVID-19, seek emergency medical attention: Trouble breathing Persistent pain or pressure in the chest New confusion or inability to be awakened Bluish lips or face Symptoms typically appear between two to fourteen (2-14) days after exposure to the virus. This is also known as the incubation period. How Does the Virus Spread? COVID-19 is thought to spread through droplet formation (coughing, sneezing, or spraying of saliva or other respiratory secretions). Exposure happens when you come into direct contact with the secretions (droplets) of someone who has COVID-19 (being coughed or sneezed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc.). Refer to the CDC website for the latest information. Who is at a Higher Risk of Severe Complications from COVID-19? While anyone can become infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, health organizations around the globe have identified older adults (people aged 65 years and older), women who are pregnant, and individuals of any age with underlying medical conditions as those with a higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Refer to the CDC website for the latest list of these health conditions. QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications Submit Your Question Can’t find the information you are looking for? Please click on the button below. Submit Your Question COVID-19 REPORTING As we monitor COVID-19 cases on campus, we are asking members of the Tulane Community to fill out this form if they have tested positive for the virus or are awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test from a facility off-campus (anywhere other than Campus Health or the Tulane Testing Centers). This information will help us to reduce the spread of the disease by making sure appropriate areas of campus are cleaned and disinfected and your contacts are notified. COVID-19 Reporting Form Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University