Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Campus Life /Fitness and Health Fitness and Health Tulane creates many opportunities for students to stay fit and healthy. Tulane's Reily Center is a state-of-the-art recreational facility encompassing 156,000 square feet. It includes an Olympic-sized indoor pool, a 1/9th-mile indoor track; basketball, racquetball, squash, and volleyball courts, as well as a weight room; and studios for aerobics, yoga, and pilates. Tulane’s wellness programs also include personal training sessions, fitness consultations and multiple free group exercise classes. Tulane offers more than 35 popular and unique club and intramural sports for all students. Many students also enjoy walking or jogging through Audubon Park, which is conveniently located across the street from the uptown campus. Tulane Campus Health staff are here to help you get well and stay well in mind and body. Resources range from health promotion, to counseling, to an on-campus clinic and pharmacy. Clinical services include care for illnesses, men’s and women’s health, nutrition, allergy treatments, immunizations and a lab. All incoming students are required to submit proof of immunizations and to carry health insurance equal to or greater than university requirements. Student health insurance is also available through a Tulane-sponsored plan with United Healthcare Student Resources. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University