Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Home /Stronger TUgether /Health Strategy Public Health Strategies Last Updated: May 17, 2022 Tulane has implemented extensive protocols and procedures to help limit the spread of COVID-19 and mitigate potential exposure for the university and New Orleans community. To help achieve this goal, every student, faculty and staff member shares in the responsibility to comply with these health protocols. Tulane has made, and will make continue to make, every decision about our plans in close consultation with physicians and public health professionals. More information about our health strategies can be found below. COVID-19 related testing, working and isolation/quarantine protocols for healthcare workers may vary due to the nature of their work. Specific directions or exceptions to stated protocols will be communicated to those employees by their senior leader. Indoor Masking Strongly Recommended Citing rising COVID-19 cases, New Orleans health officials have strongly recommended masking indoors as of May 17, though they stopped short of returning to any previous requirements. The City of New Orleans also strongly recommends masking when taking public transportation. As always, Tulane is following the city’s COVID-19 protocols and also strongly recommends masking when indoors or on public transportation. According to public health officials, the city now faces a medium level of risk for COVID-19 transmission. Although cases and hospitalizations are still low compared to the state’s previous five surges, city health officials said that masking indoors now would prevent more cases, hospitalizations, deaths and disruptions to normal life. Social Distancing Maintaining space between yourself and others is one of the best ways to avoid being exposed to the COVID-19 virus and to slow its spread. While there is no current social distancing requirement on campus, social distancing is an effective strategy you can use to protect yourself from COVID-19. Social distancing is the practice of maintaining increased distance between people and avoiding direct contact with people in public. This minimizes the risk of exposure and transmission of COVID-19, thereby slowing the spread. This means keeping six feet or more between you and other people who are not part of your family unit both inside and outside, avoiding large non-University-sanctioned events, and minimizing contact with people who are sick. When practiced along with everyday healthy habits such as frequent hand washing and wearing a face covering, these behaviors may reduce the spread of COVID-19. Personal Hygiene It is critical to continue our efforts to control both COVID-19 and flu through the following: Hand Washing – Washing your hands often will help protect you and others. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Stay Home When You’re Sick – Stay home from class, work and social activities when you are sick to prevent spreading your illness to others. Clean Your Room – Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces in your room, especially when you or someone who has visited your room is ill. Cover Your Mouth and Nose – Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or sleeve when coughing or sneezing. Avoid Touching Your Eyes, Nose and Mouth – Germs are often spread when you touch something that is contaminated with germs and then touch your eyes, nose or mouth. About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications Submit Your Question Can’t find the information you are looking for? Please click on the button below. Submit Your Question COVID-19 REPORTING As we monitor COVID-19 cases on campus, we are asking members of the Tulane Community to fill out this form if they have tested positive for the virus or are awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test from a facility off-campus (anywhere other than Campus Health or the Tulane Testing Centers). This information will help us to reduce the spread of the disease by making sure appropriate areas of campus are cleaned and disinfected and your contacts are notified. COVID-19 Reporting Form Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University