Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Academics /Libraries Libraries Tulane's twelve libraries make up a research network ranked among the top in the nation. In addition to the main library, the Howard-Tilton Memorial Library, the university’s professional schools have libraries of law, business and health sciences. Tulane is known for unique and world-renowned collections at the Latin American Library, the Amistad Research Center and the William Ransom Hogan Jazz Archive, which draw researchers from around the globe. The Howard-Tilton Memorial Library is Tulane's main library and supports, promotes and enriches the teaching and learning mission of the university. The library enables the discovery, dissemination and preservation of academic information resources in the humanities, social sciences and science and engineering. Our spaces bring together students, scholars and intellectual resources from across all programs to broaden and deepen intellectual life at Tulane. Our library staff provides services to assist Tulane community members in discovering resources that inform and inspire their work. With complementary campus partners, we leverage our collections to help spark imaginations, and we steward our resources to ensure the preservation of cultural memory, particularly the unique culture of Tulane and New Orleans in all its expressions. The Amistad Research Center is the nation's oldest, largest and most comprehensive independent archive specializing in the history of African Americans and other ethnic minorities. The Architecture Library houses the standard reference materials in architecture, monographs on contemporary architecture and historically eminent architects, as well as works on architectural theory, urban planning, environmental design, sustainability, historic preservation, building technologies and graphic standards. The Southeastern Architectural Archive is the largest repository of architectural records in the southern United States. The SEAA has progressively sought to enhance the preservation and conservation of architectural records associated with the built environment of the southeastern Gulf Region. The primary mission of the Lillian A. and Robert L. Turchin Library is to serve the research needs of the students, faculty and staff of the A.B. Freeman School of Business. The William Ransom Hogan Jazz Archive is the leading research center for the study of New Orleans jazz and related musical genres, including New Orleans ragtime, gospel, blues, rhythm and blues and Creole songs. The Latin American Library is among the world's foremost collections of Latin American research materials and one of the most comprehensive of its kind, to include substantial collections of rare books, ephemera, manuscripts and an image archive. The primary mission of the Tulane Law Library is to serve the educational and research needs of the faculty, students and staff of Tulane University Law School. The Louisiana Research Collection (LaRC) is the oldest, largest and most comprehensive research center for New Orleans and the second largest for Louisiana. As an integrated research library and archives, LaRC offers a full range of library and archival research resources, from books and manuscripts to maps and images. The Math Library serves the faculty and graduate students of the Mathematics Department and all other sections of Tulane University in mathematics oriented research, as well as the New Orleans academic community. The Matas Library is the primary resource library for the Tulane University Health Sciences Center comprising the School of Medicine, the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine and the National Primate Center. Located on the 6th floor of Howard-Tilton Memorial Library, Media Services is the primary service point for music reference, sound recordings and video recordings. The Newcomb Archives and Vorhoff Library Special Collections collect, preserve and make available records, manuscript materials and a non-circulating special collection library devoted to the history of women at Newcomb College and Tulane University, women in the American South, culinary history, women's education, prescriptive literature, Newcomb authors, third wave feminist zines, and the work of women in general, as well as the Marla Custard collection on sexuality. Special Collections' Rare Books unit preserves approximately 50,000 titles dating from a leaf of the Gutenberg Bible (ca. 1456) to recent first editions. The Tulane University Archives comprises one of our richest sources of information on campus. We invite you to visit the "physical memory" of Tulane University. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University