Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search Current Issue research Hall of Fame For the first time, Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards were bestowed on Tulane’s stellar researchers and scholars. We devote several stories to them in this issue of the Tulanian. Continue Reading research Spirit of Tulane The Spirit of Tulane Research Award recognizes individuals whose work embodies Tulane’s motto: Non sibi, sed suis (Not for one’s self, but for one’s own). Continue Reading research Innovation The Innovation Award recognizes scholars/investigators who develop and explore novel ideas, approaches and insights through interdisciplinary scholarship to address clinical, public health or societal challenges. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Video Latin American studies Research Hall of Fame: Elizabeth Boone Video admiralty and maritime law Research Hall of Fame: Robert Force Video public health Research Hall of Fame: Dr. Jiang He Video physiology Research Hall of Fame: L. Gabriel Navar Audio river and coastal science Audacious Water Podcast with John Sabo Audio political science Girls, politics and gendered socialization Audio music Torch song: producing the opening ceremony Also In This Issue Winter 2022 View as PDF Issue Archive research, Africana studies, history, health policy and management, law Equity, Diversity & Inclusion The Provost’s Award for Excellence in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion recognizes research that addresses societal inequities and promotes social change. Continue Reading research Research, Scholarship & Artistic Achievement The Tulane University Research, Scholarship, and Artistic Achievement Awards were presented for the first time in November at a gala at the Higgins Hotel near The World War II Museum in New Orleans. Continue Reading campus, New Orleans Living and Learning When Hurricane Ida arrived 16 years to the day after Katrina made landfall in Louisiana, a narrative quickly emerged that it would be the Katrina of the 2020s. Fortunately, the improvements made to New Orleans’ flood protection system more than a decade and a half ago changed this storyline. Continue Reading art, architecture John Clemmer: A Legacy in Art A teacher of drawing and painting at the School of Architecture, chair of the Newcomb Art Department and producer of modernist art, the late John Clemmer is remembered for his generosity and impact on the New Orleans art scene. Continue Reading campus Bounce Back from Hurricane Ida Tulane evacuated students who had sheltered in place during the storm, including on-campus and off-campus undergraduates and graduate and professional students, to Houston, where a hub was established at the university’s expense to provide students with food and lodging until they were able to get flights home. Continue Reading campus, architecture Architecture’s Major Renovation The home of Tulane School of Architecture is preparing for a major renovation. Continue Reading behavioral sciences Talk About Race Tulane University researcher awarded $3.4 million NIH grant to help families have ‘Color Brave’ discussions against racism. Continue Reading athletics Reshaping College Sports The NCAA Constitution Committee is billed as a panel that will reshape college sports, and Tulane University Athletics Director Troy Dannen made no secret of his desire to be part of it. Continue Reading dance In-Person Dance Artist Choreographer Ronit Ziv established her place in the dance world with her first work, “Rose Can’t Wait,” in 1999. Continue Reading New Orleans, culture Wish You Were Here Postcards depicting travel scenes and inscribed with cryptic messages are a dwindling form of communication. Continue Reading campus Note to New Inhabitants Students connect years apart through a slip of paper left in a hole in the wall in Monroe Residence Hall. Continue Reading tulanians, biomedical engineering, physics, business Trivia Frazier: Research Scientist & Business Innovator Trivia Frazier (SSE ’08, M ’12, B ’18), president and CEO of Obatala Sciences, is passionate about her company’s work and is thrilled to be blazing a path for others interested in bioengineering research. Continue Reading tulanians, sociology impression: Billy Witz Billy Witz followed in his father’s footsteps to Tulane 41 years ago and took the road less traveled in becoming an award-winning sports journalist. Continue Reading wavemakers Gift Creates Fogelman Hall In New Residential Village The alumnus whose name is synonymous with Tulane basketball is now providing the lead gift to build the preeminent student residence hall on the uptown campus. Continue Reading wavemakers New Presidential Chair Established at School of Medicine A husband-and-wife team who first met as Tulane undergraduates is donating $5 million to create the university’s ninth Presidential Chair, which will be based at the School of Medicine. Continue Reading wavemakers Gift Endows Career Services for Student-athletes Tulane University has received a $1.4 million gift from the Valerie and Michael McKeever family, $1 million of which will be used to establish the McKeever Family Athletic Career Development Endowed Fund. Continue Reading In Brief academics New Business School Dean Paulo Goes is the new dean of the A. B. Freeman School of Business. His vision for Freeman is to develop interdisciplinary programs, continue the school’s experiential learning and expand research. Goes previously served as dean of the University of Arizona’s Eller College of Management. Goes replaces Ira Solomon, who stepped down after a decade as dean. visit https://tulane.it/new-business-dean academics Gulf Scholars Program The National Academies’ Gulf Research Program has selected Tulane to join the newly launched Gulf Scholars Program. The program aims to cultivate future leaders who will serve the region as scientists, engineers, educators, community leaders, policymakers, designers and innovators in local communities. visit https://tulane.it/gulf-scholars-program campus Lease for Charity Hospital Building Tulane University, along with developers 1532 Tulane Partners and SKK Opportunity Zone Fund I, LLC, announced in November a new phase in the redevelopment of the former Charity Hospital building, which will result in Tulane initially occupying nearly 350,000 square feet through a long-term lease. Over the next few years, the developers and Tulane will transform Charity, which has been empty since Hurricane Katrina in 2005, into a mixed-use complex with apartments, retail, educational institutions and other use, all anchored by Tulane’s academic and research presence. visit https://tulane.it/charity-lease social work QUOTED: CATHERINE McKINLEY “Portraying women and men as inherently falling along stereotypical gender roles as ‘natural’ or ‘innate’ perpetuates incorrect gender role myths, stereotypes and sexism.” visit https://tulane.it/catherine-mckinley-verywell-mind academics ByWater director John Sabo, a leading scholar on water resources and river ecology, stepped into his role as the director of the ByWater Institute in the fall. He also is a professor in the Department of River-Coastal Science and Engineering. Previously at Arizona State University, Sabo served as a professor and founding director of Future H20, a nationally renowned initiative to create solutions for water abundance that can scale to the world stage. Sabo studies the importance of water in determining the viability and resilience of animal and plant populations in river ecosystems. visit https://tulane.it/bywater-director river and coastal science RIVER FORECASTING Ehab Meselhe, a professor in the Department of River-Coastal Science and Engineering, will develop an online forecasting tool to help scientists, ecologists and engineers evaluate how freshwater diversion and other coastal restoration projects may impact marine mammals, shorebirds, barrier islands and fisheries from the Mississippi River to the Gulf of Mexico. The project, funded by a grant from the NOAA RESTORE Science Program, aims to fund research that reduces the uncertainty around the management of natural resources in the Gulf of Mexico region. visit https://tulane.it/river-forecasting academics Ranking Among the Best U.S. News’ Best Colleges 2022 edition ranked Tulane No. 42 among the nation’s top National Universities list, No. 29 among National Private Universities and No. 34 among the list of Most Innovative Schools. The publication also ranked Tulane No. 4 among the Best Schools for Service Learning, and Tulane’s Undergraduate Business Program ranked 41st in the nation. Additionally, the Princeton Review Best 387 Colleges: 2022 Edition placed Tulane in the top universities that are Most Loved, Best Run, and have the Best College City, Best Quality of Life and the Happiest Students. visit https://tulane.it/rankings-2021 biomolecular engineering Recycled glass ‘sand’ A Tulane team will work with the New Orleans-based glass recycling center Glass Half Full to develop a plan to divert glass from landfills and turn it into glass sand products to restore coastal communities and preserve historic sites. The project, led by Julie Albert, associate professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, was inspired by a service-learning collaboration. visit https://tulane.it/recycled-glass-sand campus ESPN Special Olympics ESPN selected the Tulane University Special Olympics (TUSO) program as one of the Top 5 Unified Special Olympics Sports groups in the nation and also named TUSO to its 2021 Honor Roll for intentionally promoting meaningful social inclusion by bringing together students with and without intellectual disabilities to create accepting environments. visit https://tulane.it/espn-special-olympics research VIRAL LOAD A study co-led by Dr. Xiao-Ming Yin, chair of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and the Dr. Donald R. and Donna G. Pulitzer Professor, found that cycle thresholds from PCR tests — an indicator of the amount of virus an infected person carries — aren’t a reliable gauge for identifying those most likely to transmit COVID-19. visit https://tulane.it/viral-load research INHALED VACCINE Researchers at the Tulane National Primate Research Center found that an inhaled vaccine currently being developed induces a robust and long-lasting immune response against SARS-CoV-2 in nonhuman primates, similar to the protection provided by the Moderna vaccine. visit https://tulane.it/inhaled-vaccine research WASTEWATER DETECTION Tiong Aw, assistant professor of Environmental Health Sciences at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, is developing more efficient ways to test and measure viruses in wastewater so engineers can evaluate how to best eradicate them. visit https://tulane.it/wastewater-detection culture Black Studies Book Club The Africana Studies Program has launched its new Black Studies Book Club. “Our plans are to bring in a scholar (once per semester) whose recent publication has shifted the conversation in Africana Studies to deliver a public lecture and to facilitate a more intimate, book club–style conversation,” said Mia L. Bagneris, director of the Africana Studies Program. The conversation aims to bring together diverse constituencies of the Africana Studies Program, including students, faculty, staff and local community members as well as students and faculty from New Orleans Math & Science Charter High School, the program’s high school partner. visit https://tulane.it/black-studies-book-club research Tick Group The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has selected Monica Embers, associate professor of microbiology and immunology and director of vector-borne disease research at the Tulane National Primate Research Center, to serve as one of 14 members of the 2021 Tick-Borne Disease Working Group. The primary function of the Working Group is to develop a report of findings and recommendations regarding the federal response to tick-borne disease prevention, treatment and research. visit https://tulane.it/tick-group anthropology Machu Picchu Machu Picchu, the most famous landmark of Inca civilization, was believed to be built around A.D. 1438. A new study, co-authored by Jason Nesbitt, associate professor of anthropology at the School of Liberal Arts, suggests the citadel may have been built some two decades earlier. Nesbitt, along with researchers from Yale and the University of California–Santa Cruz used accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) — an advanced form of radiocarbon dating — to determine the age of human remains recovered during the early 20th century at the site. visit https://tulane.it/machu-picchu campus Quoted: Patrick Norton 2021 “Developing the building in a way that is true to the roots and spirit of the historic former Charity Hospital has been a guiding principle for Tulane University since this project’s inception.” visit https://tulane.it/charity-lease campus Minimum Wage As part of its commitment to support income growth and greater equity and economic well-being in the community, Tulane has raised its minimum wage for all staff to $15 per hour. The change in minimum compensation, from the current rate of $10.82 per hour, puts the university’s minimum wage at more than double the federal and state minimum. The university has also standardized student wages by raising the minimum hourly rate to $10 per hour from $7.25 per hour. visit https://tulane.it/minimum-wage research Senior Theses Digitized The 2021 cohort of Newcomb-Tulane College Senior Theses and Projects are available to view online through Tulane University Libraries’ Digital Repository. The repository includes 67 theses and research projects from recent Tulane graduates that cover a wide range of subjects such as motherhood in prison and healthcare delivery barriers experienced by the Navajo Nation. visit https://tulane.it/senior-theses-digitized culture Marching Band in Dubai The Tulane University Marching Band played at the 2020 World Expo in Dubai on Nov. 28, 2021. The band took the stage as the only college band to perform on U.S. National Day. Formerly known as the World’s Fair, the six-month Expo began Oct. 1 and will run through March 31, 2022. World Expo showcases innovation and culture from 192 countries, with 25 million visitors worldwide expected to attend. It had been postponed from last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. visit https://tulane.it/band-in-dubai public health Quoted: Laviest in Washington Post “These are the types of traumas that chip away at your resilience. … And people of color have to be more resilient because we face more trauma.” visit https://tulane.it/laveist-washington-post-2021 Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008