Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Academics /Graduate Education /Admission Graduate Admission While each school or degree program has its own requirements and standards for admission, these general guidelines will help you prepare for the application process. Application Process Find Your Graduate Program Using our search tool, explore programs by degree type, area of study, or location. Review the Application Requirements and Admissions Criteria To see specific requirements and deadlines, please check with the appropriate department or program. An overview of general application requirements is below. Submit Your Application Except for applications to some programs in the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, the School of Medicine, Tulane Law School, and the School of Professional Advancement, all other graduate program applications may be submitted through our application portal. General Application Requirements Application form Application fee (if required) Transcripts from undergraduate and/or graduate schools attended Letters of recommendation Statement of Purpose Resumé/CV Standardized test scores *The School of Professional Advancement does not require any standardized test scores. Though requirements for each program differ, most prospective graduate students must take the General Test of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). International applicants must also demonstrate English proficiency, typically established through the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Financial Aid Tulane's graduate programs award their own scholarships, fellowships, and assistantships. Tuition rates also vary by degree program. Most doctoral students receive a fellowship or assistantship consisting of a stipend plus a tuition waiver. To learn more about the availability of funds and how to apply, contact your program of interest directly. Other Resources Tulane's Financial Aid Office may provide additional assistance to qualified students. The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies offers helpful information about financial support at the Master’s and Ph.D. level. Back to Graduate Education Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University