Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Vaccinations Health Strategy About Coronavirus Testing & Tracing COVID-19 Dashboard Data Collection for COVID-19 Mitigation Policy Student Life Resources For Students For Employees For Researchers For Visitors Communications Community Research Response Submit Your Question Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Stronger TUgether Second Booster Shot Update The Food and Drug Administration and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have announced that people age 50 and up are eligible for a second booster dose of COVID-19 vaccine at least four months after their first shot. The Food and Drug Administration also authorized a second booster for people 12 and older with certain immune deficiencies. Learn More May 17, 2022 Indoor Masking Strongly Recommended Citing rising COVID-19 cases, New Orleans health officials have strongly recommended masking indoors as of May 17, though they stopped short of returning to any previous requirements. The City of New Orleans also strongly recommends masking when taking public transportation. As always, Tulane is following the city’s COVID-19 protocols and also strongly recommends masking when indoors or on public transportation. According to public health officials, the city now faces a medium level of risk for COVID-19 transmission. Although cases and hospitalizations are still low compared to the state’s previous five surges, city health officials said that masking indoors now would prevent more cases, hospitalizations, deaths and disruptions to normal life. Proof of Vaccination Requirement Lifted Noting that key metrics related to COVID-19 transmission and hospitalizations are at historically low levels in the New Orleans region and across Louisiana, the city of New Orleans lifted the requirement that patrons show proof of vaccination or a recent negative COVID-19 test to enter restaurants, gyms, bars and other public spaces. In light of this, Tulane has also lifted its proof of requirement of vaccination or a recent negative test to attend any Tulane event or enter any university building. Masks are still required in health care facilities and on any public transportation, including university bus shuttles and vans. QUICK LINKS Vaccinations COVID-19 Dashboard Testing & Tracing For Students For Employees Communications SELF-CARE RESOURCES COVID-19 News Psychologist explores history of anti-API racism and advocates for a united community Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects New book aims to prepare social work students for 21st century challenges Tulane wins $2.27 million grant to combat burnout among health care workers Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University