Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search December 2018 academics New Deans, New Directions The schools of Science and Engineering, Liberal Arts, Public Health and Tropical Medicine, and Architecture welcome new leaders.Continue Reading academics New Spaces, New Places Tulane enhances and expands its campus footprint uptown, downtown and all around. Continue Reading stopping sexual violence We’re All In. Tulane makes a major commitment to stop sexual violence on campus. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Video academics New Dean: Inaki Alday academics New Dean: Brian Edwards Video academics New Dean: Kimberly Foster Video academics New Dean: Thomas LaVeist Video campus New Spaces, New Places Video anthropology More Secrets of Mayan History Video sports Cross Country Champ Pursues Architecture Also In This Issue December 2018 View as PDF Issue Archive behavioral and neurodevelopmental genetics, behavioral sciences, future, medicine, neuroscience New Hope for a New Generation Are the clues to reducing community problems like poverty, bullying and crime held at the tip of a chromosome? Continue Reading New Orleans, up first Gridiron Glory in the Movies As the regular college football season transitions into bowl season, and then into “Wait till next year!” mode, all the football fan can do is hope his/her team is going to a bowl game — or in desperation satisfy a craving by watching a favorite football movie or game replays. Continue Reading academics, opinion, psychology, race and inclusion, Africana studies Divided We Learn Among the most important issues in U.S. higher education right now is the lack of diversity in student and faculty populations. Continue Reading academics, liberal arts, international studies, Jewish studies, political science $1 Million to Fund Middle East Studies A Tulane University program that teaches students about the Middle East peace process will continue for another four years thanks to a second $1 million grant from Stacy Mandel Palagye (NC ’83) and her husband, Keith Palagye. Continue Reading tulanians, neuroscience, New Orleans, science Monique Cola: Scientist & Principal Monique Cola (G ’04) trained as a neuroscientist, then pivoted to an academic career — for the love of research. Now, as principal of Sci High, she encourages high schoolers to be STEM-literate and to consider STEM careers. Continue Reading liberal arts, tulanians Impression: Aaron Frumin Aaron Frumin (SLA ’11) knew he had a passion for teaching, but not within the walls of a typical classroom. His roundabout path to education came by way of New Orleans, first as a volunteer with the American Red Cross after Hurricane Katrina. Continue Reading anthropology, Latin American studies, liberal arts, research, up first More Secrets of Maya History Revealed with Discovery of Altar Northern Guatemala has proven to be fertile ground for archaeologists, and Tulane University researchers Marcello Canuto and Francisco Estrada-Belli have been among them, making some of the most eye-popping and remarkable discoveries the world has ever seen. Continue Reading academics, biomedical engineering, Latin American studies, up first Fieldwork in Peru They delighted in everything Peru had to offer, from fishing on the Amazon to bird-watching in the rainforest to surfing on the Pacific. But this was anything but a vacation. Continue Reading multicultural affairs, campus The O: 30 Years and Counting The Office of Multicultural Affairs (The O) celebrated its 30th anniversary — and its mission of promoting inclusivity and supporting people from all walks of life — at a gathering of hundreds of students, faculty and friends in the Lavin-Bernick Center on Nov. 7. Continue Reading academics, leadership, public relations, up first Discourse With Media Tulane University President Mike Fitts joined national higher education reporters and leaders from other top universities for a wide-ranging conversation on critical issues facing universities during a special Presidents’ Dinner at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., in September. Continue Reading campus, leadership, up first Symposium Honors the Late Tulane President Eamon Kelly Leading up to Homecoming weekend, past, current, and future leaders of Tulane gathered for an all-day discussion of the legacy of Eamon Kelly on Nov. 3 in Dixon Recital Hall. Continue Reading athletics, architecture, sports, real estate development, up first Cross Country Champ Pursues Architecture Emmanuel Rotich never set out to be a competitive cross country runner, yet running was a big part of his life. Growing up in the remote village of Rift Valley, Kenya, he would run to school each morning and back home each evening. In between, he’d run home for lunch and then back to school for afternoon classes. Continue Reading disaster management, disaster mental health, disaster resilience, social work, trauma studies Mental Health Experts Assist Puerto Rico As Puerto Rico marked the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Maria in September, officials from Tulane University’s Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy (DRLA) and the Traumatology Institute were on the island discussing the state of mental health post-disaster. Continue Reading President, academics, campus, future, research The University of the Future Where do you see yourself in five years? We have all been asked this question at one time or another either by a job interviewer, a peer, our parents or even ourselves. Continue Reading campus, wavemakers Benson Foundation Donates $500,000 to Chapel A $500,000 gift from the Gayle and Tom Benson Charitable Foundation will fund completion of the chapel in the Fr. Val McInnes, OP, Center for Catholic Life. The chapel, located on Tulane University’s campus, will be named The Chapel of St. Martin de Porres, donated by Gayle and Tom Benson. Continue Reading law, legal studies, wavemakers Fund Honors Father’s Law Legacy Renowned New Orleans attorney Harry Herman (L ’36) built a respected career advocating for human and civil rights. Continue Reading academics, finance, business, wavemakers Burkenroad Reports Celebrates 25th Anniversary Burkenroad Reports, the student equity research program founded by Peter Ricchiuti, is celebrating its 25th anniversary. The nation’s first such program, Burkenroad Reports has developed into one of the jewels of the A. B. Freeman School of Business. Continue Reading In Brief campus The O: 30 Years and Counting The Office of Multicultural Affairs (The O) celebrated its 30th anniversary — and its mission of promoting inclusivity and supporting people from all walks of life — at a gathering of hundreds of students, faculty and friends in the Lavin-Bernick Center on Nov. 7. The celebration took a sentimental turn as The O’s founder and director Carolyn Barber-Pierre (above) was lauded by colleagues, past and present students, and former college classmates. They shared their memories about her efforts to improve the experience of students at Tulane. Barber-Pierre is also assistant vice president for multicultural life. She said, “How far we’ve come since the inception of this office. There are so many memories, experiences and people who we, as an office, have been fortunate enough to witness and are here to celebrate.” visit https://tulane.it/The-O-30-years medicine Next-Generation Whooping Cough Vaccine The National Institutes of Health awarded Tulane School of Medicine a contract for up to $8.5 million over five years to develop a more effective and longer-lasting vaccine against pertussis, more commonly known as “whooping cough.” Microbiologist Lisa Morici, PhD, and immunologist James McLachlan, PhD, will lead the project to use outer membrane vesicles, which are nanoparticles shed by bacteria as they grow, to stimulate a more potent immune response than current vaccines against the disease. Worldwide, there are an estimated 24.1 million cases of pertussis and about 160,700 deaths per year, according to the Centers for Disease Control. Despite widespread vaccination, pertussis cases have spiked in the U.S. in the last decade and a half with almost 18,000 reported in 2016. Part of the increase is blamed on limitations of the current vaccine, which doesn’t provide lasting immunity and may not prevent person-to-person transmission. Children must get a series of doses before age 1 and need another at the end of adolescence. Continued compliance is also an issue as adults need a booster shot to retain immunity. visit https://tulane.it/whooping-cough-vaccine law Quoted: Mark Davis “Nothing tells me you can do this without river reintroduction in the toolbox, since that is the tool that built the place.” -MARK DAVIS, director of the Tulane ByWater Institute and Institute on Water Resources Law and Policy, in the Engineering News Record article, “Mississippi River Diversions Could Save Louisiana’s Drowning Coast.” visit https://tulane.it/Mark-Davis-engineering-news biomedical engineering Cancer Scanner J. Quincy Brown, associate professor of biomedical engineering, has been awarded a $1.6 million four-year grant from the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health to develop a tool that could lower tumor recurrence in cancer patients, especially those with prostate cancer. visit mathematics Fluid Dynamics Lisa Fauci, professor of mathematics, has been named a prestigious American Physical Society Fellow. In bestowing the honor, the society cited Fauci’s “pioneering work in using modeling and simulation to understand the basic biophysics of organismal locomotion and reproductive fluid dynamics.” visit political science Quoted: Mirya Holman “The incumbency advantage in the U.S. is really strong. We focus on the upsets. [But] once these women are in office, they can probably hold onto those positions.” -MIRYA HOLMAN, associate professor of political science, commenting in the Christian Science Monitor about the wave of women elected to office during the 2018 midterm elections. visit https://tulane.it/Mirya-Holman-christian-science-monitor campus Day of Service During Outreach Tulane on Sept. 1, students Su Latt Swe Zin and Nadia Kumar bag leaves while cleaning the grounds at Renew Cultural Arts Academy at Live Oak Elementary. The student service event, in which students fan out across the city to sweep, clean, rake, plant and do other helpful activities, is held each year at the start of the fall semester. visit https://tulane.it/day-of-service-2018 campus New Police Chief Kirk Bouyelas, a 31-year veteran of the New Orleans Police Department, is Tulane’s new chief of police. Tulane President Mike Fitts said that Bouyelas is “an extraordinary law enforcement leader.” visit https://tulane.it/new-police-chief Latin American studies William Spratling Collection Tulane University’s Latin American Library has acquired the personal papers of William Spratling, renowned artist, designer, author, entrepreneur and 1920s Tulane architecture professor. This collection contains original personal and business correspondence, photographs and design drawings from the peak years of Spratling’s artistic and commercial production starting in the 1920s until his death in 1967. visit https://tulane.it/spratling-papers liberal arts Theatrical Work In October, Newcomb Art Museum hosted the world premiere of Postcards From Over the Edge, a new theatrical work that illustrates the history of the sale of sex in Louisiana. The play, developed by New Orleans–based artists, was initiated by Karel Sloane-Boekbinder from the School of Liberal Arts’ Department of Theatre and Dance. visit https://tulane.it/theatrical-work professional advancement Quoted: Georgia Weidman “It’s scary. Our power grid, our cars, our everyday devices — basically everything is online and able to be attacked.” -Georgia Weidman, quoted in The New York Times. Weidman is teaching Applied Computing Systems and Technology in Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement. She is the author of Penetration Testing: A Hands-on Introduction to Hacking. visit https://tulane.it/Georgia-Weidman-nyt campus Remember Together Students Carson Neeves, left, social media chair with the Tulane College Republicans, and Henry Walther, right, president of the Tulane College Democrats, install flags on the academic quad on Sept. 11. Both organizations hoped the demonstration would send a bipartisan message of respect and remembrance for the deceased of 9/11 — and all Americans. visit https://tulane.it/remember-together business Is New Orleans Poised to be the Next Silicon Valley? Yes, it could be, said technology leaders at the annual Tulane Business Forum that was presented by the Tulane Association of Business Alumni in September. Among the participants at the forum were representatives of DXC Technology, which is bringing its new Digital Technology Center to New Orleans along with 2,000 tech jobs over the next six years. Part of the appeal of New Orleans is its universities, said the tech experts. visit https://tulane.it/business-forum-2018 academics Two Books, Two Cities It’s a banner year for Tulane English professors — Zachary Lazar and Jesmyn Ward. Their novels have been selected as the 2019 books to read citywide in New Orleans and Philadelphia, respectively. Vengeance by Lazar is the “One Book, One New Orleans” selection. In addition to distributing free copies of the book to people who can’t afford to buy them, the program will present a series of events to encourage people to read and engage with the book, which is a tale of crime and imprisonment, where fact and fiction are hard to tell apart. Sing, Unburied, Sing, the National Book Award–winning 2017 novel by Ward, is the featured selection for “One Book, One Philadelphia.” In that city, from Jan. 16 to March 13, 2019, Sing, Unburied, Sing will take center stage in approximately 100 discussions, performances and projects throughout Philadelphia public schools. “It’s a bold choice, a decidedly adult book, encompassing drug abuse, violence and death, the prison-industrial complex, and broken familial relationships,” said the Philadelphia Inquirer. visit https://tulane.it/two-books-two-cities psychology Quoted: Charles Figley “Trauma psychology has emerged and evolved over the last 20 years.” -CHARLES FIGLEY, founder of the Traumatology Institute, in U.S. News & World Report, about the improvement in approaches, measures, assessments and treatment techniques in dealing with trauma. visit https://tulane.it/Charles-Figley-US-news athletics Happy Winners A jubilant Head Football Coach Willie Fritz celebrates with team members in the Green Wave locker room after Tulane’s 40-24 win against Memphis in Yulman Stadium on Sept. 28. At Tulanian press time, Tulane had a 6-6 overall and 5-3 American Athletic Conference record and was headed to the Auto Nation Cure Bowl in Orlando, Florida. visit https://tulane.it/happy-winners academics Networking More than 200 alumni and parents representing their industries, companies and careers connected with more than 150 students in New York during fall break at “Tulane Takeover,” a career conference coordinated by Tulane’s Office of Career Wave Programs. Tulane Takeovers also were scheduled for Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, San Francisco, Atlanta, Miami, Boston, New Orleans and Chicago this year. visit https://tulane.it/tulane-takeover-nyc academics Outdoor Classroom This fall, students are enjoying the university’s first outdoor classroom equipped with a chalkboard and bench-style seating. The classroom is located on Pierson Patio between Gibson and Tilton halls. Planning for the $99,000 project, which was fully funded by Undergraduate Student Government (USG), began in 2016. “This was a project created by students for students,” said John Alexander, School of Liberal Arts student, USG director of sustainability and lead on the project. visit https://tulane.it/outdoor-classroom psychology Quoted: Nicholas Kerry “People get more conservative with age. It occurred to me that parenting might have a role in this.” -NICHOLAS KERRY, PhD student in psychology in the School of Science and Engineering, in Futurity. visit https://tulane.it/Nicholas-Kerry-futurity history Accidental City Harvard University Press offers an audio interview with emeritus professor of history Larry Powell discussing his book, The Accidental City: Improvising New Orleans. Powell’s book focuses on the founding of the city of New Orleans. visit https://tulane.it/powell-interview architecture $2.3 Million Blight Study Can cleaning vacant lots cause a chain of events that curbs child abuse or stops a teen from falling victim to violence? That’s the provocative question behind a new research project to study whether maintaining vacant lots and fixing up blighted properties in high-crime areas reduces incidents of youth and family violence. The National Institutes of Health awarded Tulane a $2.3 million grant to test the theory in New Orleans. Researchers from Tulane’s schools of Public Health and Tropical Medicine and Architecture will work closely with the city of New Orleans and community organizations to clean up 300 blighted properties across the city. They will split the properties into two randomized intervention groups — half featuring overgrown vacant lots that are cleared and maintained and another featuring both remediated buildings and lots. Katherine Theall, Cecile Usdin Professor in Women’s Health in the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, is the principal investigator. visit https://tulane.it/blight-study-2018 architecture New Degrees, Programs and Certificates The School of Architecture and the A. B. Freeman School of Business have initiated a double-track master’s degree program leading to a Master of Sustainable Real Estate Development and a Master of Business Administration. The A. B. Freeman School of Business’ new one-year Master of Business Analytics program provides students with the skills to transform large, complex data sets into the clear information managers need to make business decisions. The School of Social Work has a new online Master of Social Work program. The School of Professional Advancement (SoPA) offers a digital design program with three tracks — Game Art & Animation, Graphic Design and Interactive Design. SoPA recently opened new digital design labs at the Elmwood campus. visit culture TWO BOOKS, TWO CITIES It’s a banner year for Tulane English professors — Zachary Lazar and Jesmyn Ward. They have had their novels selected as the 2019 book to read citywide in New Orleans and Philadelphia, respectively. Vengeance by Lazar is the One Book, One New Orleans selection. In addition to distributing free copies of the book to people who can’t afford to buy them, the program will present a series of events to encourage people to read and engage with the book, which is a tale of crime and imprisonment, where fact and fiction are hard to tell apart. Sing, Unburied, Sing, the National Book Award–winning 2017 novel by Ward, is the featured selection for One Book, One Philadelphia. In that city, from Jan. 16 to March 13, 2019, Sing, Unburied, Sing will take center stage in approximately 100 discussions, performances and projects throughout Philadelphia public schools. “It’s a bold choice, a decidedly adult book, encompassing drug abuse, violence and death, the prison-industrial complex, and broken familial relationships,” said the Philadelphia Inquirer. visit https://tulane.it/two-books-two-cities quoted Trauma psychology has emerged and evolved over the last 20 years. visit http://tulane.edu/Charles-Figley-US-news sports HAPPY winNERS A jubilant Head Football Coach Willie Fritz celebrates with team members in the Green Wave locker room after Tulane’s 40-24 win against Memphis in Yulman Stadium on Sept. 28. At Tulanian press time, Tulane had a 6-6 overall and 5-3 American Athletic Conference record and was bowl-eligible. visit http://tulane.it/happy-winners NeTWORKING More than 200 alumni and parents representing their industries, companies and careers connected with more than 150 students in New York during fall break at “Tulane Takeover,” a career conference coordinated by Tulane’s Office of Career Wave Programs. Tulane Takeovers also were scheduled for Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, San Francisco, Atlanta, Miami, Boston, New Orleans and Chicago this year. visit http://tulane.edu/tulane-takeover-nyc disaster resilience Mental Health Experts Assist Puerto Rico As Puerto Rico marked the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Maria in September, officials from Tulane University’s Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy (DRLA) and the Traumatology Institute were on the island discussing the state of mental health post-disaster. DRLA and Traumatology Institute directors Reggie Ferreira and Charles Figley went to Puerto Rico at the invitation of the Foundation for Puerto Rico, a nonprofit organization that promotes economic and social development. They are working with the foundation to assess Puerto Rico’s need for disaster mental health research and services, and to train nongovernmental organization leaders in disaster resilience leadership, share lessons learned from Katrina and other major disasters, and help local universities develop disaster resilience and trauma courses and programs. “The response to our visit has been amazing,” said Ferreira, who has been visiting Puerto Rico regularly since April. “The folks here have been open and appreciative of our assistance. They are especially interested to learn more about New Orleans and disaster recovery as it relates to Hurricane Katrina.” visit http://tulane.it/mental-health-puerto-rico campus OUTDOOR CLASSROOM This fall, students are enjoying the university’s first outdoor classroom equipped with a chalkboard and bench-style seating. The classroom is located on Pierson Patio between Gibson and Tilton halls. Planning for the $99,000 project, which was fully funded by the Undergraduate Student Government (USG), began in 2016. “This was a project created by students for students,” said John Alexander, School of Liberal Arts student, USG director of sustainability and lead on the project. visit http://tulane.it/outdoor-classroom urban studies BLIGHT STUDY Can cleaning vacant lots cause a chain of events that curbs child abuse or stops a teen from falling victim to violence? That&rsquo;s the provocative question behind a new research project to study whether maintaining vacant lots and fixing up blighted properties in high-crime areas reduces incidents of youth and family violence. The National Institutes of Health awarded Tulane a $2.3 million grant to test the theory in New Orleans. Katherine Theall, Cecile Usdin Professor in Women&rsquo;s Health in the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, is the principal investigator. visit https://apnews.com/1d387ec141f24ea2b94d4fb67fc6607b culture Accidental City Harvard University Press offers a podcast of emeritus professor of history Larry Powell discussing his book, The Accidental City: Improvising New Orleans, about the founding of the city of New Orleans. visit http://tulane.it/powell-podcast quoted "People get more conservative with age. It occurred to me that parenting might have a role in this." visit http://tulane.it/Nicholas-Kerry-futurity academics Race & Inclusion For the first time in 12 years, Tulane University has added new course requirements for all Newcomb-Tulane College students. Beginning this fall, all new full-time, first-year undergraduate students and transfer students will be required to complete a course that addresses race and inclusion. More than 50 existing courses have been approved that meet the criteria. More courses will be added to the curriculum going forward. visit http://tulane.it/race-and-inclusion academics NEW DEGREES, PROGRAMS AND CERTIFICATES &bull; The School of Architecture and the A. B. Freeman School of Business have initiated a double-track master&rsquo;s degree program leading to a Master of Sustainable Real Estate and a Master of Business Administration.<br><br>&bull; The A. B. Freeman School of Business&rsquo; new one-year Master of Business Analytics program provides students with the skills to transform large, complex data sets into the clear information managers need to make business decisions.&nbsp;<br><br>&bull; The School of Social Work has a new online Master of Social Work program.<br><br>&bull; The School of Professional Advancement (SoPA) offers a digital design program with three tracks &mdash; Game Art &amp; Animation, Graphic Design and Interactive Design. SoPA recently opened new digital design labs at the Elmwood campus. visit http://tulane.it/zzz-and-iiii Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008