Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Academics Great teaching, unique and unbelievably numerous courses, research opportunities and students who are the best and brightest are at the core of the Tulane experience. Ok, we know every university says this, but here’s why Tulane is special. Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Academic Resources Bold. Creative. Interdisciplinary. Tulane researcher working to turn waste to fuel wins NSF Career Award Quick View Tulane receives transformational gift for Jewish Studies Quick View Three Tulane University students receive prestigious national awards Quick View Tulane researcher honored for insight on Vietnamese community’s Katrina recovery Quick View View Tulane News Tulane researcher working to turn waste to fuel wins NSF Career Award Nicholas Sandoval, an assistant professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at Tulane University, is the recipient of a National Science Foundation Early Career Award. Read Full Story Tulane receives transformational gift for Jewish Studies Tulane University has received a generous gift from Stuart and Suzanne Grant of Wilmington, Delaware, to establish the Stuart and Suzanne Grant Center for the American Jewish Experience. It is among the largest gifts to the Tulane School of Liberal Arts and the largest ever to the Department of Jewish Studies. Read Full Story Three Tulane University students receive prestigious national awards Three Tulane University undergraduate students from the School of Science and Engineering were recognized for their achievements in the classroom and the laboratory with a pair of national awards. Rising seniors Nathalie Clarke and Danielle (Nelle) Kulick were named 2019 Goldwater Scholars by The Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. Recent graduate Steven Stradley received the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF-GRFP). Read Full Story Tulane researcher honored for insight on Vietnamese community’s Katrina recovery When disaster strikes a community, a key factor in whether it can bounce back is its reserve of resilience before it was tested by hardship. Researchers are discovering that this resilience is inextricably linked to a community’s unique history and culture. Read Full Story So what else makes us different? You! Maybe you will do a double, triple or quadruple major. Maybe you will study abroad. Maybe you will invent something to make life better. What you will definitely do is take advantage of the way Tulane has broken down the silos between schools so it is easy for you to take a creative, designed-just-for-you curriculum. Suppose neuroscience appeals to you but Shakespeare really gets you, and vice versa. No problem. Your advisors will help chart a course just right for you and your aspirations. To thine own self be true, right? Tulane University is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, doctorate and professional degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Tulane University. Talking TU - How has Tulane helped you plan for your future? Tulane students talk about how their Tulane education is preparing them for their future careers. Experts Faculty Spotlight Dr. John Schieffelin Pediatric and adult infectious diseases physician As part of Tulane’s clinical and research team in West Africa during the Ebola outbreak, Dr. John Schieffelin is an expert in outbreak response efforts. He can speak about the epidemiology of the coronavirus disease, risks of spread and issues... Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University