Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search September 2018 preservation Deep Dive in the Jazz Archive New Orleans jazz is a living, breathing, evolving force, but its origins in the early 20th century require special preservation. That is the job of the Hogan Jazz Archive.Continue Reading academics (De)Colonizing the Coast The New Orleans Center for the Gulf South commemorates the city’s Tricentennial with a symposium focused on the Indigenous people of Louisiana. Continue Reading art Feminists in the Visual Arts Lynda Benglis created The Wave of the World when she won a contest sponsored by the 1984 World’s Fair in New Orleans. Owned by the city of Kenner, Louisiana, The Wave of the World sat in disrepair for years after Katrina until the Helis Foundation funded its restoration. The sculpture/fountain is now on display in a City Park lagoon by the New Orleans Museum of Art. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Video art Feminist Art in New Orleans Video campus Leading the Way Video campus Second-Line Parade Also In This Issue September 2018 View as PDF Issue Archive liberal arts, humanities, New Orleans, opinion, culture Gathering Moss New Yorker, New York Times contributor and creative writing professor Thomas Beller reflects on arriving to teach at Tulane 10 years ago and making New Orleans his home. Continue Reading President, campus, leadership, up first Leading the Way The Board of Tulane announced a new contractual agreement with President Mike Fitts that will run through the academic year ending June 30, 2023. Continue Reading academics, culture, global, opinion, race and inclusion Cultural Exchange I believe Tulane University needs to be a leader in welcoming students from other countries, cultures and every socioeconomic background. It enriches the lives of the students who come here, whether they grew up in New Orleans or are arriving in this country for the very first time. Continue Reading New Orleans, opinion, up first The Cuba Connection Angus Lind explores the cultural ties between Cuba and New Orleans, sometimes described as “Latin America’s most northern city.” Continue Reading anthropology, gulf south, liberal arts, preservation, social sciences Earth Beneath Dump Site Offers Clues to Racial Massacre From Somaliland to El Salvador, Peru to Guatemala, Davette Gadison has brought her passion for justice to her studies in forensic anthropology—drawn to mass gravesites in countries torn apart by civil war. Continue Reading academics, culture, English, humanities, medieval and early modern studies Screens vs. Books: the Book Always Wins, Professor Says Is book culture old-fashioned in a society that’s overrun by screens? Continue Reading art, culture, humanities, liberal arts, New Orleans Empire Exhibit If one could enter a door that leads inside a mind full of historic memories, that experience might feel the same as walking through the EMPIRE exhibit at the Newcomb Art Museum. Continue Reading research, science, wavemakers Priddy Family Foundation Pledges $1 Million to Tulane Brain Institute Tulane University’s Brain Institute received a $1 million pledge from the Priddy Family Foundation to endow and establish the Priddy Family Spark Research Endowed Fund. Continue Reading law, science, wavemakers New Donor Fund is Flexible, Easy Alan and Katy Stone want to play a part in supporting the university’s future. Continue Reading medicine, wavemakers Scholarship Supports Dreams of Med School When he was accepted to Tulane University School of Medicine, Dr. Hugh “Glenn” Barnett II knew that the cost of tuition might prevent him from attending the prestigious school. Continue Reading President, campus, wavemakers Record-Breaking Fundraising Year Tulane University again smashed its fundraising record, raising more than $150 million in the 2017–18 fiscal year, exceeding last year’s record-breaking year by nearly $25 million. Continue Reading business, law, leadership, liberal arts, management Impression: Tania Tetlow / Pamela S. Whitten Two Tulane University alumnae have assumed leadership positions at universities this fall. Continue Reading art, economics, English, liberal arts, tulanians Impression Catherine Freshley As a painter, Catherine Freshley (SLA ’09) puts the familiar into focus. Continue Reading liberal arts, New Orleans, theatre, tulanians Bryan Batt: Actor & Author Actor Bryan Batt (A&amp;S ’87) knows that a career in show business can have as many twists and turns as a carnival ride. Continue Reading earth science, environmental studies, geology, gulf south, research Understanding the Gulf Coast Is Key to Resilience A national report on the future of the Gulf Coast draws heavily on the work of two Tulane University scientists who have spent most of their careers studying coastal systems in Louisiana and around the world. Continue Reading President, New Orleans My New Orleans Moment When did you first know you were a New Orleanian? Continue Reading campus J.L. Residence Hall turns 100 Josephine Louise House—home to generations of Newcomb and Tulane women—is 100 years old this year. Continue Reading In Brief Peace Corps Names Tulane No. 1 For the fourth consecutive year, Tulane University is ranked first among graduate schools for the number of volunteers who join the Peace Corps. There are 27 alumni currently serving, 22 from the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. In addition to leading the graduate school pack, Tulane also ranks No. 5 among medium undergraduate schools with the most Peace Corps volunteers. This ranking is up from No. 10 in 2017 and is based on the 33 alumni volunteering worldwide. visit https://tulane.it/peace-corps-no1 School Choice Studies The U.S. Department of Education’s Institute of Education Science has awarded a five-year, $10 million grant to Tulane to launch a national school choice research center to study and find ways to improve the way school choice policies work for disadvantaged students. visit https://tulane.it/school-choice-studies Viral Detection A new study from the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine shows that, depending on the interpretation criteria, blood tests can distinguish recent Zika infections in areas where dengue is endemic. Dengue and Zika fevers are both mosquito-borne tropical diseases. visit https://tulane.it/viral-detection How Do You Change Campus Culture? Approximately 50 Tulane students who enrolled in a new course, Project IX: Student Design to End Sexual Assault, presented creative, bold and thoughtful ideas for shifting campus culture around sexual misconduct to the Tulane community at an event on May 2. visit https://tulane.it/change-campus-culture Sports Law Gabe Feldman, professor of law, on NPR about online sports betting: “The reason we’ve had sports gambling as cardinal sin No. 1 in professional sports is the risk to the integrity of the game. As we all know, part of the popularity of sports is the uncertainty of outcome. And so anything that might interfere with that uncertainty of outcome is of a major concern to the leagues.” visit https://tulane.it/gabe-feldman-npr More Praise Two-time National Book Award winner and Tulane Professor of English Jesmyn Ward continues to earn praise for her 2018 commencement speech with the advice to “persist, work hard.” Forbes, Fast Company, Business Insider and TIME included Ward in their lists of the best commencement speeches this year. Also, Ward published an essay, “My True South: Returning Home to a Place I Love More Than I Loathe,” in the Aug. 6–13, 2018, issue of TIME magazine. visit https://tulane.it/commencement-speech-2018 Brain Institute The Tulane Brain Institute received a five-year, $1 million Comprehensive Enhancement Grant from the Louisiana Board of Regents. “Our goal is to build research facilities for Tulane neuroscientists that are among the best in the country,” said Jill Daniel, Gary P. Dohanich Professor in Brain Science and founding director of the Brain Institute. (See page 38 to read about a Priddy Family Foundation gift to the institute.) visit https://tulane.it/brain-institute-grant-2018 Halting Cancer Cells Asim Abdel-Mageed, Zimmerman Professor of Cancer Research at Tulane School of Medicine, and his colleagues were part of a team that published research in Scientific Reports this spring that examined whether drugs already approved to treat other diseases or conditions could be effective in blocking the spread of cancer cells. visit https://tulane.it/halting-cancer-cells Fulbright Scholars Eight alumni and two current students have received grants from the Fulbright U.S. Student Program to conduct independent research in Morocco, Peru and Zambia, or work as English teaching assistants in Brazil, Colombia, Estonia, Jordan, Malaysia and Poland in 2018–19. “The Fulbright award is a natural extension of a Tulane education with its similar values of reciprocity, international engagement and promotion of mutual understanding among nations,” said Charlotte Maheu Vail, Tulane’s Fulbright Program adviser and director of the Honors Program. visit https://tulane.it/fulbright-grantees-2018-19 Roman Tombs Allison Emmerson, an assistant professor of classical studies in the School of Liberal Arts, won the Rome Prize offered by the American Academy in Rome and an American Council of Learned Societies fellowship. Emmerson plans to spend the academic year 2018–19 in Rome, finishing her upcoming book, which will analyze how tombs were a central feature of suburbs within the ancient Roman world. visit https://tulane.it/roman-tombs A. Hays Town Exhibit An exhibit, curated by architecture professor Carol McMichael Reese, honors A. Hays Town (A ’26). “Town’s popular—and perhaps abiding—legacy is as a regionalist who sought to create an indelible image of home in Louisiana,” said Reese. The exhibit is at Hilliard University Art Museum in Lafayette, Louisiana. visit https://tulane.it/hays-town-exhibit Walter Isaacson University Professor Walter Isaacson has joined CNN’s late-night public affairs show “Amanpour & Company” as a contributor. Isaacson also published an essay, “Shaped by Water: The Mississippi Remains the South’s Most Vital Artery,” in the Aug. 6–13, 2018, issue of TIME magazine. visit https://tulane.it/isaacson-amanpour Three New Deans • Iñaki Alday is the new dean of the School of Architecture. • Brian Edwards is the new dean of the School of Liberal Arts. • Thomas LaVeist is the new dean of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. visit Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008