Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /About /Visiting Tulane /Plan Your Visit Plan Your Visit The best way to figure out if a university is right for you is to visit. Here are some resources to help you prepare for your trip. Traveling to New Orleans – You can get here by plane, train or automobile. We’ve got some tips that will make getting here easier. Hotel accommodations – Find hotels near Tulane and get special rates when you make your reservations. Local transportation – Shuttle service, cabs and rental cars are available from the airport. Even if you have your own car to get around, take the opportunity to ride in one of New Orleans’ legendary streetcars. Visiting campus – Our tour guides will be ready to show you around, but feel free to check out the campus map ahead of time. Parking can be a bit hard to find so plan to get here early or take public transportation or a cab. Recommended restaurants – It’s nearly impossible to have a bad meal in this town, but we’ve compiled a list of our favorite restaurants to get you started. Places to visit – Your time at Tulane won’t be spent just on campus. Take some time to explore this fascinating city that you may one day call home. Events to enjoy – You might want to time your visit so you can experience Mardi Gras, Jazz Fest or one of any of a number of other unique local events. Dining Hotel Accommodations Local Transportation Parking Traveling to New Orleans Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University