Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search December 2019 Louisiana Ripple Effect Tulane’s $3.14 billion impact on Louisiana’s economy and community includes jobs, discoveries, goodwill and more, a new study finds.Continue Reading research Turning Point Dr. Giovanni Piedimonte, vice president for research, is leading Tulane toward a new era of impactful research that makes lives better. Continue Reading campus Green Impact Liz Davey, director of the Office of Sustainability, has worked closely with students and administrators for 20 years on recycling efforts, energy efficiency and sustainable construction to get to this point, but there’s still more to do. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives Video Louisiana The Power of Tulane Video research Turning Point Video New Orleans Reading Is Fun Video campus Green Impact Also In This Issue December 2019 View as PDF Issue Archive New Orleans Reading Is Fun For book lovers of all ages, the New Orleans Book Festival is poised to be a premiere national literary event. The festival welcomes everyone to campus in March to meet and greet famous authors and celebrate the joy of literature. Continue Reading New Orleans, economics ‘Earn and Learn’ The Earn and Learn program is open to young people in New Orleans who have earned a high school diploma and are looking to advance their careers. Continue Reading up first, research, music, New Orleans Curator of Jazz Melissa A. Weber, also known as DJ Soul Sister, has been named curator of the Hogan Jazz Archive. Continue Reading up first, business, entrepreneurship Startup Activity Since 2006, Tulanians have founded at least 355 companies, a third of which are located in the New Orleans area. Continue Reading up first, athletics A Winning Culture Ron Hunter, the new Green Wave men’s basketball coach, invites fans to experience the energy of the team this season. Continue Reading up first, Louisiana, architecture Louisiana Writer Tulane geography professor Richard Campanella, author of 11 books on the geography, history, architecture and culture of Louisiana, is the recipient of the 2019 Louisiana Writer Award. Continue Reading up first, New Orleans, campus Good Eating in The New Commons The astonishing options for healthy dining in The Commons match up to the spectacular architectural ambience of the new place to hang out on campus. Continue Reading up first, leadership, public health Why I Volunteer for Tulane Tulane’s synonymity with New Orleans is what drew me to the university. Continue Reading up first, President, campus Justice Sonia Sotomayor Dispenses Wisdom Conversation with the President Continue Reading academics Tulane Rises in Rankings As the university continues to grow and interest is at all-time high, national rankings improve. Continue Reading athletics How Do We Know Green Wave football Is on the Rise? Last year, it took the entire season of 12 games to become bowl eligible. This year, Tulane clinched bowl eligibility with a Nov. 1 homecoming victory against Tulsa — it’s ninth game of the season. Continue Reading theatre impression: Bill Groom As a child growing up in California, Missouri, Bill Groom (G ’74) used his imagination to entertain his family at his grandmother’s house every other Sunday with self-produced plays in the living room and the occasional circus in the backyard. Continue Reading liberal arts, New Orleans Impression: Kim Vaz-Deville As a child, Kim Vaz-Deville (NC ’81, G ’83) spent many hours at her grandparents’ and great-grandparents’ double on North Claiborne Avenue in New Orleans, and she remembers vividly the hustle and bustle of that vibrant neighborhood. Continue Reading architecture Impression: Wellington ‘Duke’ Reiter Wellington “Duke” Reiter (A ’81) is convinced “bending the curve of the future will require thinking at scale.” Continue Reading wavemakers, Jewish studies Gift Will Transform Jewish Studies Tulane University has received a generous gift from Stuart and Suzanne Grant of Wilmington, Delaware, to establish the Stuart and Suzanne Grant Center for the American Jewish Experience. It is among the largest gifts to the Tulane School of Liberal Arts and the largest ever to the Department of Jewish Studies. Continue Reading wavemakers, law Major Gift Launches First Amendment Clinic With support from a nearly $1 million gift from the Stanton Foundation, Tulane Law School will launch a new law clinic dedicated to First Amendment rights, Dean David Meyer announced. Continue Reading wavemakers, research Donors Give $2 Million to Help Faculty Compete for Research Dollars Tulane alumna and board member Elizabeth “Libby” Alexander (NC ’84)and her husband, Robert, have pledged $2 million to set up a fund to support faculty and the university’s research grant proposal development initiatives so that researchers can spend more time pursuing world-changing discoveries. Continue Reading wavemakers Tulane Experiences Another Record Fundraising Year For the third straight year, Tulane University has posted a record-setting fundraising pace, inspiring an unprecedented 25,221 donors to give more than $130 million in the fiscal year 2018-19, second only to last year’s total of $150 million. Continue Reading In Brief campus 2020 Ceremony The 2020 Commencement ceremony, scheduled for May 16, will be held in Yulman Stadium for the first time in Tulane history. Tulane commencements are among the country’s most memorable celebrations of academic achievement, featuring renowned speakers and honorary degree recipients such as the Dalai Lama, Tim Cook and Helen Mirren. The university plans to bring many of the beloved commencement traditions to the ceremony at Yulman. This year’s speaker has not been announced yet. visit https://tulane.it/2020-commencement-venue law Right to Privacy Viking Press, an imprint of Penguin Random House, will publish a book by Amy Gajda, Tulane law professor, called The Secret History of the Right to Privacy. The book, set to publish in 2021, examines privacy’s path in the United States, its threats to press freedoms and what privacy reveals about current concerns in a digital age. visit https://tulane.it/right-to-privacy-book art Not Supposed to Be Here Newcomb Art Museum’s latest show NOT SUPPOSED 2 BE HERE by visual artist Brandan “BMike” Odums opens Jan. 18, 2020. It is the first solo exhibition for Odums in a museum setting. The display, which features brand new site-specific installations, as well as past work, is part retrospective and part futurescape. Audiences will be able to envision and engage with the bold histories — and futures — that Odums’ work encapsulates. visit https://tulane.it/not-supposed -to-be-here neuroscience Neuroscience Center Tulane School of Medicine opened the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center, a new center aimed at improving care for patients with neurological diseases. Dr. Gregory Bix is the center’s director, and Dr. Xiaoying Wang is the center’s program director of brain injury and research. Bix’s goal is to build on the university’s existing stroke research and expand efforts in traumatic brain injury, aging and dementia. visit https://tulane.it/neuroscience-research-center biomedical engineering “Make 48” Team A group of Tulanians competed in the APT/PBS reality show “Make 48,” a MakerSpace-inspired show in which student teams have 48 hours to plan, prototype and pitch a new commercial product idea to a panel of judges. The team, called The Big Easy, consisted of Kyra Rubinstein, a junior majoring in biomedical engineering, Matthew Nice, a biomedical engineering graduate, Luke Artzt, an engineering physics graduate, and Jesse Williams, a School of Architecture graduate. visit https://tulane.it/make-48-team medicine Lead in Top Soil Howard Mielke, pharmacology research professor at the School of Medicine, found that long-term changes in soil lead levels in New Orleans have a corresponding impact on blood levels in children. Mielke’s research team collected rounds of soil samplings in the city over several years and compared them to children’s blood level data, which revealed decreasing lead in topsoil played a key factor in the children’s declining blood lead levels. visit https://tulane.it/lead-exposure architecture New Design Major Tulane’s School of Architecture has launched a new Bachelor of Arts in Design. It offers a broad design education inclusive of multiple modes of practice and an understanding of the fundamental linkages between design, society and culture. visit https://tulane.it/new-architecture-major medicine Pact Championship Year The Tulane Professional Athlete Care Team had its most successful year in 2018-19, completing more than 600 patient screenings, including a record 139 former players at Super Bowl LIII in Atlanta. Tulane’s School of Medicine began providing medical services to former professional athletes in 2013. In 2015, a partnership with the NFL Player Care Foundation Healthy Body and Mind Screening program and PACT was formed. visit https://tulane.it/pact-championship-year quoted Mark Davis, director of Tulane Institute on Water Resources Law and Policy and ByWater Institute “We’re still standing on decisions that were made two or three generations ago.” MARK DAVIS, director of the Tulane Institute on Water Resources Law and Policy and director of the ByWater Institute, said in Time regarding Louisiana’s methods of trying to control the Mississippi River. visit https://tulane.it/Mark-Davis-time athletics 2019 Hall of Fame Class Tulane University Athletics inducted five new honorees into the 2019 Hall of Fame Class. Those inducted were the baseball program’s all-time saves leader Daniel Latham; two-time all-American women’s golfer Maribel Lopez Porras; all-American football player Ed Mikkelsen; two-time all-conference women’s basketball star Gwen Slaughter; and longtime Tulane team physician Greg Stewart. The Billy Slatten Award was presented to Times-Picayune and States-Item columnist Angus Lind. visit https://tulane.it/2019-hall-of-fame campus Willow Residences Renamed for Trailblazers The Décou-Labat Residences, formerly Willow Residences, were dedicated on Nov. 16 on the uptown campus. The residences are named in honor of Deidre Dumas Labat (NC ’66, G ’69) and Reynold T. Décou (A&S ’67, A&S ’79), the first African American undergraduates to earn degrees from Newcomb and Tulane, respectively. (See “Pioneers on Campus,” Tulanian, September 2019.) The naming of the residences is part of the Tulane Trailblazers initiative. visit https://tulane.it/tulane-trailblazers research Maya Civilization Francisco Estrada-Belli, a research assistant professor in the Middle American Research Institute at Tulane, was part of a team of researchers who uncovered evidence that suggests extreme and violent warfare, along with a massive fire, led to the destruction of the Maya city Witzna nearly 1,500 years ago, in what is now northern Guatemala. visit https://tulane.it/maya-research-2019 research Immune Systems A team of Tulane researchers —James McLachlan, associate professor of microbiology and immunology, John McLachlan, Weatherhead Professor of Pharmacology, and Franck Mauvais-Jarvis, Price-Goldsmith Professor of Nutrition — will study how sex differences shape disparate immune responses in men and women. visit https://tulane.it/immune-systems research Cannibalistic Cancer Cells Researchers from Tulane School of Medicine authored a study in the Journal of Cell Biology that suggests some cancer cells survive chemotherapy by eating their neighboring tumor cells. The study suggests the act of cannibalism provides the treated cancer cells with energy to stay alive and initiate tumor relapse after the course of treatment is complete. visit https://tulane.it/cannibalistic-cancer-cells history Going Digital The Newcomb Archives and the Nadine Robbert Vorhoff Collection of the Newcomb Institute are now accessible through a Digital Repository online. In addition, the Newcomb Art Museum will inventory and digitize its permanent collections with a Collection Stewardship grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services Museums for America. visit https://tulane.it/new-digital-archives quoted Walter Isaacson, history professor “What’s happening now is that the Chinese system is changing the nature of the internet.”WALTER ISAACSON, history professor at Tulane, on CNBC’s “Squawk Box” regarding the relationship between the Chinese government and CEOs of American businesses like Apple and Facebook. visit https://tulane.it/Walter-Isaacson-cnbc academics Taylor Center 5th Anniversary The Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking celebrated its five-year anniversary in November. The center aims to support students as they identify their changemaking path through programs in teaching, research and practices of design thinking, social entrepreneurship and social innovation. The center was founded in 2014 with a $15 million contribution from Taylor and the Patrick F. Taylor Foundation. visit https://tulane.it/taylor-center-5th-anniversary New Orleans NOLA Charter Schools Douglas Harris, director of the Education Research Alliance for New Orleans and chair of the Department of Economics at Tulane, discussed on NPR his research on failing charter schools closing in New Orleans. “If you’re doing [closures and takeovers] well, then those opening schools are better than the ones that you’re closing and taking over. That’s going to lead to improvement in the city — and it did.” visit https://tulane.it/nola-charter-schools quoted Thomas Laveist, dean of Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine “... the stereotype is that the environment is about tree hugging or saving exotic birds.” THOMAS LAVEIST, dean of Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, in Bloomberg Environment on why he thinks black politicians haven’t focused much on climate change. visit https://tulane.it/Thomas-Laveist-bloomberg public health 400 Years of Inequality Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine observed the 400-year anniversary of the beginning of slavery in America and its lasting impact on inequalities in communities with a daylong event called “400 Years of Inequality: Changing the Narrative.” The School of Public Health plans to hold additional events as part of the series throughout the academic year. visit https://tulane.it/400-years-of-inequality music Authentic New Orleans Matt Sakakeeny, associate professor of music at Tulane, is co-editor of Remaking New Orleans: Beyond Exceptionalism and Authenticity (Duke University Press, 2019). In an opinion piece Sakakeeny co-authored in The Advocate, he writes about the book stating, “… in celebrating the vibrancy of our traditions, we fail to understand that they’re a tremendous driver of profit for those who can capitalize on them.” visit https://tulane.it/authentic-new-orleans campus Fitts Flag Students August Janow (left) and Rohan Goswami (right) present a flag to President Fitts with his likeness on it. Janow and Goswami asked Fitts to sign the flag. The flag was designed by another student, Yara Hantash. visit https://tulane.it/fitts-flag tulanians Outreach Tulane students volunteered at more than 20 local organizations for this year’s Outreach. The annual event is Tulane’s largest and oldest community service event and gives students, along with staff, the opportunity to positively impact New Orleans. visit https://tulane.it/outreach-2019 English Literary History T.R. Johnson, professor of English at Tulane, is editor of New Orleans: A Literary History (Cambridge University Press, 2019), which provides detailed discussions on the most significant writing the city of New Orleans has inspired. In a video on the publisher’s website, he mentions several major authors like Joan Didion, F. Scott Fitzgerald, William Faulkner and Kate Chopin who spent time in the city. “I think people come in and spend a few months or even a few years and put their ear to the neighborhood grapevine, absorbing the folklore and the phantasms, and tracing the old faultlines to see what can be drawn from this. And the answer is usually quite a lot.” visit https://tulane.it/literary-history quoted Dr. Anand Irimpen, professor of Medicine “I remember Katrina, we did not have enough psychiatrists and people to provide mental health care.” DR. ANAND IRIMPEN, professor of medicine at Tulane, said in an American Heart Association News article about hurricane preparedness and the toll a hurricane can have on one’s health. visit https://tulane.it/Anand-Irimpen-aha-news Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008