Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Campus Life /Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs The Division of Student Affairs provides a number of services related to campus life, health and wellness and other types of resources and support for Tulane students. Our dedicated staff strive to help students succeed at Tulane and in life. You will first get to know us at orientation. We’ll give you all the information you’ll need to prepare for your first semester at Tulane and beyond. We recognize the important role that parents and families play in your success and provide special orientation sessions and a number of other resources for them. Skip the hassles of off-campus living and choose one of our many on-campus housing options. Residential Learning Communities bring students with similar interests together with faculty to enhance your living and learning experiences. Between classes you’ll attend meetings or grab a bite to eat in the Lavin-Bernick Center for University Life or work out at the Reily Recreation Center. The LBC also houses a bank, the bookstore, FedEx and a computer store. The Reily Center provides a wide range of exercise equipment and fitness programs, manages both intramurals and club sports, and offers a variety of outdoor escapes to the surrounding area. A well-rounded education includes more than just time in the classroom. Tulane offers a wide range of student organizations including fraternities and sororities, service organizations, student government and more. We foster an environment with a multitude of viewpoints, experiences and cultures. THE O serves as the hub for this diverse community, including multicultural affairs, our religious communities and the Office for Gender and Sexual Diversity. Counseling services, on-campus clinics and wellness programs are available when you need them. We also provide accessibility services, victim support and case management, and manage the student conduct process. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University