Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Close Some Tulane graduate programs have extended their application deadlines for the 2020-2021 academic year. Learn more. Graduate Education Tulane is a powerful, unique and transformative community with more than a third of its students enrolled in graduate programs. Through curiosity and exploration in research, we focus on finding innovative solutions to the world’s most pressing challenges. Our graduate students experience unparalleled access to collaboration, service and opportunity while tackling meaningful work that is both timely and relevant. We offer a variety of doctoral, master’s and graduate certificate programs across our nine schools – all with the flexibility to fit your schedule, whether online or on campus. Find Your Program Graduate Admission Online Learning Research Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Schools Facts and Figures 200+ Graduate Degree Programs 5,900+ Graduate Students 3 Campus Locations in New Orleans #1 Producer of Peace Corps Volunteers at the Graduate Level 1 of 65 Members of the Association of American Universities 90 Research institutes and centers worldwide “In looking into programs, Tulane seemed to be a very good fit for developing a unique perspective in my approach to research, especially because of the one-on-one work I would be able to do with the faculty.” Ravinder Elupula School of Science and Engineering Ph.D., Chemistry "The Master’s in Pharmacology Program at Tulane gave me the opportunity to demonstrate to admissions committees that I was capable of excelling in medical school courses, and undoubtedly played a key role in my admission to medical school." Kevin Swan Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program School of Medicine M.S., Pharmacology “At Tulane, I was able to harness a wide set of skills and expand my understanding of architecture as something more than a practice of design and building making. The school's engagement with the city and the people of New Orleans allowed me to see architecture as one of many tools to affect change and lift the human spirit.” Cameron Ringness School of Architecture M.Arch I ‘12 “The Employment Law and Human Resources Program has helped me to have a better understanding of the law. I’m able to advise and guide my clients in an appropriate, legal and non-discriminatory direction while balancing the needs of the organization and the employees.” Amanda Haddaway Tulane Law School MJ ‘18 “The Freeman MBA gave me the skills and connections I needed to launch and grow a business in New Orleans.” Todd Wackerman Freeman School of Business MBA ’18 Our Location Tulane and New Orleans are inextricably linked, attracting curious and high-achieving students who crave challenging academics mixed with culturally rich, real-world experiences. Our collective story of resilience and progress and local connections to global challenges drive us to build a better future for the community and the world. With three campus locations and more than 35 online programs, Tulane’s footprint spans the city and the globe. Learn More Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University