Skip to main content Current Issue Winter 2022 Issue Archives The Magazine of Tulane University Subscribe Donate Main navigation Home Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Tulane News Podcast Contact Search Search Fall 2021 river and coastal science River Lookout The new Department of River-Coastal Science and Engineering looks for solutions to rising sea levels and sinking land, among today’s most looming problems.Continue Reading architecture Water Has Its Ways Tulane experts address how to live with threats of flooding in the urban environment through safe, equitable and sustainable ways. Continue Reading energy Energy in Motion Change is afoot as we move from fossil fuel to renewable energy sources. Continue Reading Digital Exclusives tulanians Let Us Know What You Think! Audio real estate development The Biggest Short: With Dr. Jesse Keenan Video academics Commencement 2021: "Survivors, Fighters" Video architecture Ecologies of Prosperity Video academics Commencement 2021: “Survivors, Fighters” Video river and coastal science Ehab Mesehle on Saving Our Coasts Audio real estate development The Biggest Short: With Jesse Keenan Video environmental studies Focus on Climate Change Audio business Pivoting Away from Oil and Gas Video campus Fall 2021 Convocation for New Students Gallery campus See Photos from Convocation 2021 Also In This Issue Fall 2021 View as PDF Issue Archive President Boundless Solutions Tulane is more invested and focused on engineering than ever before. Continue Reading academics, campus 2021 Graduates Tested to the Max Declaring the Class of ’21 the “most tested” in Tulane history (literally and figuratively, with Tulane students taking half a million COVID-19 tests this academic year to allow for in-person learning), President Michael A. Fitts conferred 3,014 academic degrees during a virtual Unified Commencement Ceremony on Saturday, May 22. Continue Reading academics, campus New Home for Equity Two centers dedicated to fostering equitable social, cultural and academic programming so that all students can thrive during their years at Tulane have a new campus home. Continue Reading microbiology, immunology, research Lyme Infection Tulane researchers found the bacterium that causes Lyme disease in the brain tissue of a woman who had long suffered neurocognitive impairment after her diagnosis and treatment for the tick-borne disease. Continue Reading athletics Ready For a New Season Corey Dublin, a left guard on the Green Wave football team, would never wish for a global pandemic. Continue Reading academics, political economy, political science, economics Student Voices Amplified When we commit to elevating the perspectives of all people, we spark important conversations hat strengthen the academic community as a whole. Continue Reading New Orleans Gridiron Handles Fullback Felts, tackle Upton, halfback Zimmerman, guard Scafide and tight end Haynes played in the 1932 Rose Bowl on New Year’s Day in Pasadena, California. Continue Reading theatre, stopping sexual violence, liberal arts Stages of a Career Before she knew she wanted to be an actor, Jenny Mercein knew she wanted to be a teacher. Continue Reading culture, world, liberal arts In the Mist of Memory: The Beatles and My JYA Experience A recollection of a ‘what-if’ rock ’n’ roll encounter in a Hamburg, Germany, Reeperbahn club 60 years ago. Continue Reading art, environmental studies After Images Photography professor AnnieLaurie Erickson captures the strange beauty of an industrialized Louisiana landscape. Continue Reading Impression: Taofeeq Adebayo Taofeeq Adebayo’s idea was so simple, and yet the opportunity it afforded would benefit thousands of schoolchildren. Continue Reading Impression: Katie Pearlman Music is an essential part of many people’s lives, something taken for granted as always being there to provide entertainment, joy, celebration and even solace. Continue Reading Jane Wolfe: Restaurateur & Literacy Advocate Jane (SLA ’12) and Scott Wolfe have spent a lifetime together composing their own remarkable story as a couple who met as teenagers, married and forged a relationship as business partners in one of New Orleans’ most successful restaurants. Continue Reading wavemakers Alumna's gift of $1 million will expand Tulane Summer Success Program Lisa Jackson, a Board of Tulane member and Apple’s vice president for environment, policy and social initiatives, and her husband, Kenneth, contribute to the Newcomb-Tulane College Summer Experience. Continue Reading wavemakers Alumni Couple’s $2 Million Gift Will Target Climate Change A gift from alumni David and Jane Flowerree is establishing two professorships aimed at finding solutions to the environmental crisis facing Louisiana and other areas. Continue Reading wavemakers Priddy family’s $1 million gift will treat veterans The Priddy Family Foundation’s donation to the Tulane University Center for Brain Health will help treat military veterans suffering from mild traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder and mental health issues related to their service. Continue Reading In Brief campus ELECTRIC SHUTTLE BUSES Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Tulane will purchase five transit buses with electric vehicle technology. Charging stations will be installed to support them. The shuttle buses will service the regular university shuttle route that links the uptown and downtown campuses and affiliate programs. The new buses will be part of the university’s fleet in 2022. Staff will collect and analyze data on the performance and costs of the shuttle buses, with the goal of sharing Tulane’s experience with fleet managers in the region and at other universities. visit https://tulane.it/electric-shuttle-buses research TRANSLATIONAL SCIENCE INSTITUTE Tulane is investing $5.7 million to significantly expand the Tulane University Translational Science Institute (TUTSI) into a universitywide center focused on finding better ways to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and translate scientific discoveries into medical practices that improve patient care and public health. The institute will include new graduate degree programs to develop the next generation of clinical investigators, new training programs for clinical research coordinators and a shared “biobank” freezer farm to store and preserve patient samples for use by researchers across multiple studies and institutions. TUTSI will include researchers from the School of Medicine, the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, the School of Science and Engineering, and the School of Social Work. visit https://tulane.it/translational-science public health QUOTED: THOMAS LAVEIST 2021 “The reason that we’re not treating COVID like any other virus, like we treat smallpox and mumps, is that it became politicized.” visit https://tulane.it/thomas-laveist-npr JAZZ ARCHIVE EXPANDS SCOPE The Hogan Jazz Archive has been renamed the Hogan Archive of New Orleans Music and New Orleans Jazz. The archive will expand the scope of its collections, including acquisitions that document late-20th-century and 21st-century contemporary jazz, rhythm and blues, funk, hip-hop and rock musicians in New Orleans and the surrounding region, as well as the industry and culture that fosters and supports those artists. The archive, part of Tulane University Special Collections, is a leading and internationally renowned source for research on traditional New Orleans jazz and music starting in the late 19th century. visit https://tulane.it/jazz-archive-expands-scope research COLON CANCER AND OBESITY Suzana Savkovic, associate professor of pathology and laboratory medicine at the School of Medicine, and a team of researchers are investigating the relationship between obesity and enhanced risk for colon cancer. One of the emerging possibilities with regard to colon cancer is that excess lipids accumulate in both the fat-storing and non-fat-storing tissues of obese individuals. The lipids are stored and are seen at higher volumes in colonic tumors relative to normal tissues. Savkovic and her team were awarded a five-year, $1.6 million National Cancer Institute grant for this work. visit https://tulane.it/colon-cancer-and-obesity liberal arts SLA MELLON FELLOWS The Tulane Mellon Graduate Program in Community-Engaged Scholarship in the Humanities — based at the School of Liberal Arts — will widen its scope to include undergraduates, new community relationships through more public events and groundbreaking work on a national level. The expansion is made possible by a $1.5 million grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. The program will expand its local network by co-sponsoring additional community events that connect activists, artists and scholars. visit https://tulane.it/sla-mellon-fellows-2021 research TB DETECTION Researchers at the School of Medicine have developed a highly sensitive blood test that can find traces of the bacteria that causes tuberculosis (TB) in infants a year before they develop the deadly disease. Using only a small blood sample, the test detects a protein secreted by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which causes TB infection. The test can screen for all forms of TB and rapidly evaluate a patient’s response to treatment, said lead study author Tony Hu, Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Biotechnology Innovation. visit https://tulane.it/tb-detection economics MENTAL HEALTH CARE DISCRIMINATION Patrick Button, associate professor of economics at the School of Liberal Arts, is studying discrimination in access to mental health care for LGBTQ+ people and marginalized communities and whether the problem has been exacerbated by the pandemic. The project, which was awarded a National Science Foundation grant, will also explore discrimination against underrepresented groups when applying for mortgages, develop new analytical tools for economics research using text data and establish a mentoring program for underrepresented graduate and undergraduate students in economics. visit https://tulane.it/mental-health-discrimination research TELEHEALTH THERAPY A joint study conducted by the School of Medicine and the School of Social Work examined the effectiveness of remote therapy during the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The researchers found that remote therapy improved engagement, mitigated symptoms and reduced repeated hospitalizations. visit https://tulane.it/telehealth-therapy research VACCINE ENHANCEMENTS Researchers at the Tulane National Primate Research Center found that a vaccine currently being developed induces a robust and long-lasting immune response against SARS-CoV-2 in nonhuman primates, similar to the protection provided by the Moderna vaccine. The study evaluated five different adjuvants, or ingredients added to vaccines, to determine which provides the most protection from the virus in nonhuman primates. Results indicated that all five adjuvants produced strong immune responses after two consecutive immunizations and induced considerable neutralizing antibodies and CD4 cells, the cells responsible for triggering the body’s response to infection. visit https://tulane.it/vaccine-enhancements philosophy NOVELLA BY PHILOSOPHER Richard Velkley, professor of philosophy in the School of Liberal Arts, has published Sarastro’s Cave: Letters From the Recent Past (Mercer University Press, 2021). This epistolary novel is a departure from Velkley’s other published works on the history of modern philosophy. Sarastro’s Cave is created from letters written by a fictional professor of history at a Southern university before he mysteriously disappears. A reviewer said that the novel is “a philosophic tour de force — witty, intellectually absorbing, and in the end deeply moving. An enlightenment tragi-comedy in the grand tonal tradition of Mozart’s Magic Flute.” visit law GLOBAL LEGISLATION David Marcello, adjunct professor of law and executive director of The Public Law Center at Tulane Law, is the editor of the International Legislative Drafting Guideline (Carolina Academic Press, 2020). The book includes a foreword by James L. Dennis, U.S. Circuit Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and articles by 18 speakers from the annual two-week International Legislative Drafting Institute, which Marcello has organized and conducted since 1995. Marcello has taught legislative drafting in Bulgaria, the Dominican Republic, Republic of Georgia, Moldova, Mongolia, the Netherlands, Nigeria and South Africa. The book includes photos of institute participants, career reflections and a few memorial tributes. Of editing and publishing the book, Marcello said, “It’s a misery editing work by some of the globe’s best writers but a great joy upon arriving at a final product.” visit campus NEWEST CLASS SETS RECORDS The newest class of Tulane students entering this fall represents the most academically qualified students to be admitted to the university and the most diverse class to date. This is the fifth year in a row that the incoming class has broken admissions records for qualifications and diversity reach. About 26% of the admitted students — more than one in four — identify as Black, Indigenous or people of color, up from 17% in 2016. The average ACT score rose as well, to a range of 31–34 this year as compared to 29–32 five years ago. “Tulane appeals to a different kind of student, one who seeks a variety of challenging and transformative academic and social opportunities,” President Michael Fitts said. “They want authenticity, a learning environment that allows them to work and discover across academic disciplines, and to belong to a community that’s located in one of the world’s most distinctive cities.” visit https://tulane.it/record-setting-class-2025 campus DOCUMENTARY ON BLACK STUDENT EXPERIENCE Raven Ancar, a School of Liberal Arts student majoring in sociology and digital media practices, has filmed and directed a feature-length documentary, The Veil, about the experience of Black students on Tulane’s campus. In January 2019, during her first year at Tulane, Ancar filmed several sit-down interviews with fellow students to explore W. E. B. Du Bois’ notions of “the veil” and “double-consciousness,” as presented in his 1903 book The Souls of Black Folks. Ancar’s film probes topics of diversity, inclusion, racism and white supremacy culture. It has been screened by the Newcomb Art Museum and through other venues on campus. visit https://tulane.it/raven-documentary economics QUOTED: GARY HOOVER “Here’s what I think people at the top of the income distribution fear: they fear that if you help people at the bottom, then my share of the pie will be smaller. … But what they fail to realize is, what if the pie is actually bigger?” visit https://tulane.it/gary-hoover-inside-higher-ed culture MONUMENT STUDY School of Architecture professors Tiffany Lin and Emilie Taylor Welty, and Lisa Molix, psychology professor at the School of Science and Engineering, will study how members of the community react to public spaces and monuments that memorialize contentious historical figures and events. They will use their findings to develop the framework for an advanced architecture research studio that examines strategies to bridge the gap between architects and the general public. visit https://tulane.it/monument-study research WATER SCARCITY FOOTPRINT Researchers at Tulane and the University of Michigan examined the water-use impacts of individual diets in the United States, while considering regional variations in water scarcity. They found meat consumption is the top contributor to the water scarcity footprint of the average U.S. diet, accounting for 31% of the impacts. The study combines the types and quantities of foods in the diets of individuals, the irrigation water required to produce those foods, and the relative scarcity of water where the irrigation occurs. visit https://tulane.it/water-scarcity-footprint New Orleans HOORAY FOR ROOTS OF MUSIC Academic Tutoring—Roots of Music, a Tulane student club, organized 100 self-care goody bags for New Orleans kids who are part of Roots of Music. Roots of Music is a nonprofit program that provides music history and theory, instrumental instruction, and ensemble performance preparation for students ages 9–14 from low-income households. Vid Raturi, from Plainsboro, New Jersey, who earned her Bachelor of Science from the School of Science and Engineering in 2020 and a Master of Science in May, is president of the club that provides homework help, test preparation and mentoring to Roots of Music students. The club’s goal was to help the younger students “cope with the mental health implications of COVID and isolation — as well as bring them some joy.” visit https://tulane.it/roots-of-music communication JOURNALISM EDUCATION AWARD Vicki Mayer, professor of communication at the School of Liberal Arts (SLA), was awarded the Professional Freedom & Responsibility Award from the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication. The award is bestowed annually on a journalist, writer, activist or scholar who the group believes embodies the spirit of cultural studies. Mayer, who is also associate dean for academic initiatives and curriculum at SLA, is an expert in media and communication industries, their political economies, infrastructures and organizational work cultures. visit https://tulane.it/journalism-education-award Don’t miss out on news & updates from Tulane. Subscribe to Tulane Today Every gift to Tulane fuels something ambitious. Learn More Visit Tulane.edu © 2021 Tulane University Current Issue Issue Archives About Staff & Contributors Subscribe to Tulanian Give to Tulane Contact Search Follow Tulane on Social #Tulanian Search Winter 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 December 2019 September 2019 March 2019 December 2018 September 2018 June 2018 March 2018 December 2017 September 2017 June 2017 March 2017 December 2016 September 2016 June 2016 March 2016 December 2015 September 2015 June 2015 March 2015 December 2014 September 2014 June 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Winter 2013 Fall 2012 Summer 2012 Spring 2012 Winter 2012 Fall 2011 Summer 2011 Spring 2011 Winter 2011 Fall 2010 Summer 2010 Spring 2010 Winter 2010 Fall 2009 Summer 2009 Spring 2009 Winter 2009 Fall 2008 Summer 2008