Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Celebrated Events Celebrated Events Between Tulane and New Orleans there are countless beloved traditions and events that make Tulane such a unique place. On campus our new students are officially welcomed to campus in a Convocation ceremony before joining in a traditional New Orleans second line, complete with a brass band. When crawfish season comes around our students celebrate with Crawfest: a two stage, 10-band outdoor music festival that provides 18,000 pounds of crawfish for our students. Some of our most anticipated events happen in May as we send off our seniors. Wave Goodbye is a chance for our graduates and their families to enjoy live music and food on the academic quad and recount some of their fondest memories of Tulane. And our Commencement ceremony is unlike any other with New Orleans traditions intermingled with traditional academic pomp and circumstance. Throughout the city there are almost too many festivals to count. The annual Po-Boy Festival highlights the po-boy sandwich with live music and a po-boy contest. World-renowned music festivals like JazzFest and Voodoo Fest give our students an opportunity to take in amazing New Orleans music. These traditions can only be found in New Orleans and our students have an opportunity to interact with this one-of-a-kind culture. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University