Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /myTulane MyTulane What is Canvas? Canvas is the university learning management system (LMS) and the online center of your academic work. Canvas easily connects instructors and students and is used to manage active enrollments and assignment submissions, monitor grades, share course documents, and contain course and institutional syllabus information. Canvas provides more modern, mobile, and user-friendly features for collaboration, engagement, and assessment. Canvas also allows us to integrate our digital and academic lives without sacrificing the privacy of either. Visit the Canvas Resource Hub to learn more. Single Sign-On (SSO) @tulane.edu Non-SSO & Temporary Accounts Click this link non-SSO Why should I use Canvas? Canvas is widely used across the university for both academic and organizational purposes. In order to maintain a consistent experience for students, we recommend that all faculty use Canvas for: Canvas Gradebook (Grades) Post a syllabus Inbox/Conversations Most departments at Tulane require faculty to maintain a Canvas site for each course section. We recommend each course site includes a course home page, current grades, the course syllabus, and instructor contact information. Where do I go for help with the LMS? Quick Reference Guide & Training - Click the link to access the guides linked to the academic tech resource hub and to register for training. Workshops are both in-person and online as well as offered in small- or large-group formats as requested for specific departments. Troubleshooting and Support - Have questions or experiencing an issue with your LMS? Login to submit a ticket or call 504-862-8888. Assessments using Respondus LockDown Browser If your Canvas assessment requires Respondus LockDown Browser, please use the following links to log in to your course and access the assessment. If you are using a regular Tulane SSO login, then select Tulane Users. If you are using another assigned login, then select Tulane Non-SSO Users. Log in to Canvas > Tulane SSO Users Log in to Canvas > Tulane Non-SSO Users Questions about Respondus? Click this link to visit the Respondus resource hub. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University