Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Home /Life at Tulane /Art and Culture Art and Culture Tulane University is steeped in cultural history. A dynamic fine arts program, a world-class museum and unique collections mean there is always something extraordinary to see at Tulane. If you prefer performing arts, you'll have plenty of theatrical performances, concerts and films from which to choose. Artists in all genres thrive in this creative atmosphere. For lovers of the arts, New Orleans is a dream. The city is home to renowned art museums, countless venues for live music, and a vibrant performing arts scene. As one of America's most culturally unique cities, there is never a shortage of exciting things going on that only happen in New Orleans. With museums, a symphony, ballet, opera, theater, comedians and the local cultural offerings, New Orleans and Tulane offer amazing opportunities to engage with art and culture. New Orleans is also a great place for sports fans. The city is home to two professional sports teams, the Saints and the Pelicans, as well as the Baby Cakes, a minor league baseball team. New Orleans has something for everybody! Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University