Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Leading With Purpose Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About History and Traditions Leadership and Administration Visiting Tulane Why Tulane Facts and Figures Core Values Academics Schools and College Majors and Minors Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Community Engagement Libraries Summer Programs Pre-College Programs Academic Resources Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Part-Time Studies Cost and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Research COVID-19 Research Health and Bioinnovation Global Studies Environment, Energy and Resilience Research in Real Time Centers and Institutes Vice President for Research Research, Scholarship and Artistic Achievement Awards Life at Tulane Campus Life Equity, Diversity and Inclusion City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Committed to Community News & Events COVID-19 In the News Tulane Today Tulanian Magazine Calendar of Events Experts Press Releases Statements On Good Authority Podcast Athletics Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Life at Tulane You’ve made it! You are enrolled at a top-tier university that you know from rankings in U.S. News and World Report, The Princeton Review, Forbes and Entrepreneur magazine. In the next several years you will learn from distinguished faculty, hear from acclaimed speakers and live on a campus graced with majestic 100-year old oak trees while making friendships that will last a lifetime. And there’s lagniappe! Being in New Orleans is a part of the Tulane package. All the great stuff you’ve heard about – the French Quarter, Mardi Gras, the Creole cuisine – it’s all part of our student life. And it’s incomparable. Campus Life City Smarts Entrepreneurship in NOLA Celebrated Events Destinations in NOLA Art and Culture Diversity Committed to Community Improving the Local Community Tulane study finds Medicaid expansion improved access to care Quick View Study finds yield lights have drivers hitting gas instead of brakes at Lafitte Greenway Quick View Tulane alumna appointed CEO of the Louisiana Public Health Institute Quick View SoPA agreement with Delgado offers new pathway to Tulane for NOLA community Quick View View Tulane News Tulane study finds Medicaid expansion improved access to care Fewer Louisianans report that they have to put off seeing a doctor or that they are unable to take their medications as prescribed thanks to Louisiana’s Medicaid expansion, according to a new Tulane University study released by Gov. John Bel Edwards and the Louisiana Department of Health. Read Full Story Study finds yield lights have drivers hitting gas instead of brakes at Lafitte Greenway Lights at intersections where the Lafitte Greenway meets New Orleans’ busy streets are meant to make drivers stop for cyclists and pedestrians. That’s the intention, at least. New research from Tulane University, however, finds drivers are more likely to hit the gas instead of the brakes when they see those lights flashing. Read Full Story Tulane alumna appointed CEO of the Louisiana Public Health Institute When Shelina Davis first arrived at the Louisiana Public Health Institute (LPHI), she was a young intern with a bright vision for the future of public health. Now, as LPHI’s newest CEO, Davis has all she needs to make her dreams reality. Read Full Story SoPA agreement with Delgado offers new pathway to Tulane for NOLA community Tulane University has created an additional pathway for students in the New Orleans community to attend the university through an agreement with Delgado Community College. The agreement provides Delgado graduates an opportunity to complete a bachelor’s degree in Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement (SoPA). Read Full Story Tulane was founded in 1834 as the South’s second medical school, and the legacy of quality education and integration with our community and environment continues. Tulane, as one of the nation’s premier research institutions, continues to lead the way in how universities should engage with the world. At Tulane, as an undergraduate, you have opportunities galore. Opportunities to work closely with renown faculty. Opportunities to lead research. Opportunities to travel the globe for your study. Opportunities to create, to invent, to explore, to discover. And you will be part of a community of curious, smart students and faculty from around the world. Forbes says that New Orleans is the nation’s biggest brain magnet. Entrepreneurs love it here. And while we adore the neighborhoods you’ve read about in all the tour guides, there’s a lot more to the city. We know: Last year, our students performed more than 780,000 hours of community service in New Orleans. Architecture students design projects that enhance the local community. Education students are deeply connected to improving the city’s schools. Our medical students continue to fight the biggest public health crises of our times. We want to do good – we were the first research institution to make community service a degree requirement – but when Tulanians participate in this giant post-Katrina civic revitalization project, we’re not doing it just for karma. We’re doing it because we live here. And you’ll find out pretty quickly when you arrive that Tulane is as much a part of New Orleans as New Orleans is a part of us. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Website Feedback Land Acknowledgment Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University