Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Blog Navigation Blogs Home Latest Blog Posts OSU-Tulsa: We're built on transfer student success Dismantling Racism: A Toolkit for Parents | TulsaKids Magazine Listen: Dr. Sarah Johnson of the Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling on the Mental Health Download Podcast OSU-Tulsa: We're built on transfer student success Submitted by osutulsa on Mon, 10/19/2020 - 10:00am The week of Oct. 19-23, 2020 is national #TransferStudentWeek. When people think about transfer students, they may have a particular kind of transfer student in mind. They may picture the freshman who gets homesick after the first semester away at college. They may imagine the junior who wants to change to a major their university doesn’t offer or the adult student returning to school after a hiatus. At Oklahoma State University-Tulsa, most of our students are transfer students. Any student in a bachelor’s program at OSU-Tulsa with college credits from a university other than OSU-Tulsa, is a transfer student. There’s a dozen reasons to transfer. For a lot of Tulsans, transferring from Tulsa Community College to OSU-Tulsa is the plan from the start. For others, transfer is the path to an institution that best suits their needs. TCC to OSU-Tulsa transfer student Cre Alexander decided to pursue a career in sports management closer to home: "...I grew up here a few blocks from campus, my family being the main reason why I'm here still. I wanted to continue to get involved with my community and give everything back to Tulsa." - Cre Alexander, transfer student Across the country, the transfer process can be frustrating and discouraging for a lot of students. That’s why we work to make sure there’s as few bumps in the road as possible, with initiatives like Linked Degree, TCC to OSU-Tulsa transfer maps and a step-by-step transfer guide to help students seamlessly transition into an OSU degree program. As Health Education & Promotion student Sarah Miller can attest to, OSU-Tulsa advisors can help put prospective students on the right path: "In my experience, I would encourage perspective students to meet with an OSU-Tulsa acacemic advisor. They were very knowledgeable and very instrumental in helping me pick which degree I needed to get." Sarah Miller, transfer student Our expert staff and faculty are here to make sure the transition is smooth no matter if you've been out of school for awhile, been studying in another state or are coming from community college. TCC students have access to advising, career counseling and student services from both TCC and OSU-Tulsa from their first day at TCC, to graduation at OSU-Tulsa, thanks to Linked Degree. We’re here to help you do it all and do it right each step of the way. Thank you, transfer students, for choosing OSU-Tulsa as your world-class transfer destination for the more than two decades. "I fell in love with OSU-Tulsa because I was a nontraditional student also, working for a major airline here in Tulsa. At the end of my career I decided I wanted to get a degree and the aviation program at OSU is second to none." - Harley Thomas, transfer student Thinking about transferring? Make an appointment with an OSU-Tulsa academic advisor online. Tags/Keywords: future students student stories student success undergraduate osutulsa's blog Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000