Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Events Events Calendar Events (List View) 100 Points of Truth and Transformation May « » S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Primary tabs Month(active tab) Week Day Year May 2022 « Prev Next » Sort by Keyword Tag - Any -100 Pointsacademic calendaradministrationadvisingAmerican studiesarts and sciencesaviationbusinesscampus lifecareer servicescenter for family resiliencecenter for poets and writerscenter for public lifecommunity engagementconferencecounselingdiversity equity and inclusioneducationeducation and human sciencesengineeringenrollmentenvironmental scienceseventfilmfoundationfuture studentsgraduatehealthhuman sciencesinformation technologylibrarynewspete's pet posse tulsaresearchsafetyscholarships and financial aidseminarstaff storiesstudent storiesstudent successtextbook buybacktrainingtruth racial healing and transformationtulsa race massacreundergraduateuniversity storeveteranswellness Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Spring: Finals Week Spring: Finals Week Event Date: Monday, May 2, 2022 - 12:00am to Friday, May 6, 2022 - 11:45pm Event Details: For more information about important spring semester dates, visit tulsa.okstate.edu/academics/calendar. Tags/Keywords: academic calendar Download this event 12:00am to 11:45pm Textbook Buybacks Textbook Buybacks Event Date: Monday, May 2, 2022 - 10:00am to 5:00pm Location: North Hall Lobby Event Details: The University Store will be buying back textbooks May 2-6 from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. in the North Hall Lobby. Student ID is required. Can’t make it? Learn about selling your textbooks online. Event Link: https://universitystore.okstate.edu/textbooks/buybacks.html Tags/Keywords: event textbook buyback Download this event Repeats every day until Fri May 06 2022. 10:00am to 5:00pm Tail Waggin' Tuesdays with P3T Jasper Tail Waggin' Tuesdays with P3T Jasper Event Date: Tuesday, May 3, 2022 - 9:00am to 4:00pm Location: Campus Life (North Hall 103) Event Details: Tail Wagging Tuesdays Stop by the Wellness Center or Campus Life (North Hall 103) to get stress relieving snuggles from Jasper, one of OSU-Tulsa's Pete's Pet Posse therapy dogs. He will be available to get belly rubs on the following Tuesday's this fall, he can't wait to see you! Jan. 11 Feb. 8 March 22 April 26 May 3 Contact Name: OSU-Tulsa Wellness Contact Email: tulsa.wellness@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: campus life pete's pet posse tulsa wellness Download this event 9:00am to 4:00pm Textbook Buybacks Textbook Buybacks Event Date: Monday, May 2, 2022 - 10:00am to 5:00pm Location: North Hall Lobby Event Details: The University Store will be buying back textbooks May 2-6 from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. in the North Hall Lobby. Student ID is required. Can’t make it? Learn about selling your textbooks online. Event Link: https://universitystore.okstate.edu/textbooks/buybacks.html Tags/Keywords: event textbook buyback Download this event 10:00am to 5:00pm Reading Lit in Translation Workshop Begins Reading Lit in Translation Workshop Begins Event Date: Tuesday, May 3, 2022 - 7:00pm to 9:00pm Location: OSU-Tulsa Event Details: Reading Literature in Translation | 4-week workshop May 3, May 10, May 17, & May 24 from 7-9 p.m. OSU-Tulsa Translation is the invisible protagonist of international literature. It lays shared foundations from the Bible to Don Quixote to Harry Potter, breaks down borders between languages and ways of life, and is the only way for countless writers around the world to share their work with a global audience. So why do we hear so little about literary translation? Why is the translator so often an afterthought rather than a main character? And how can we read translations with the respect and appreciation they deserve? In this workshop, we will look for answers to these questions by reading literature IN translation and literature AS translation. We’ll read remarkable examples of translated lit, discuss the big ideas behind literary translation, and hear from translators themselves about their work. You’ll leave this workshop with a newfound fascination for translation and an itch to keep widening your literary horizons. REGISTER HERE Scholarships are available for those with financial need. Apply here. About the instructor Arthur Malcolm Dixon is a literary translator and Managing Editor of the online, multilingual journal Latin American Literature Today. His book-length translations include the novels Immigration: The Contest by Carlos Gámez Pérez and There Are Not So Many Stars by Isaí Moreno (both from Katakana Editores) and the verse collection Intensive Care by Arturo Gutiérrez Plaza (Alliteratïon). His translations have been featured in Asymptote, Boston Review, International Poetry Review, Literary Hub, Poesía, Trafika Europe, and World Literature Today. He also works as a community interpreter in Tulsa and is a Tulsa Artist Fellow. Registration will close at 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 29. Event Link: https://bit.ly/CPWTulsaWorkshops Event Cost: 150 Contact Name: Center for Poets and Writers at OSU-Tulsa Contact Email: cpwtulsa@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: center for poets and writers Download this event 7:00pm to 9:00pm Textbook Buybacks Textbook Buybacks Event Date: Monday, May 2, 2022 - 10:00am to 5:00pm Location: North Hall Lobby Event Details: The University Store will be buying back textbooks May 2-6 from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. in the North Hall Lobby. Student ID is required. Can’t make it? Learn about selling your textbooks online. Event Link: https://universitystore.okstate.edu/textbooks/buybacks.html Tags/Keywords: event textbook buyback Download this event 10:00am to 5:00pm Textbook Buybacks Textbook Buybacks Event Date: Monday, May 2, 2022 - 10:00am to 5:00pm Location: North Hall Lobby Event Details: The University Store will be buying back textbooks May 2-6 from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. in the North Hall Lobby. Student ID is required. Can’t make it? Learn about selling your textbooks online. Event Link: https://universitystore.okstate.edu/textbooks/buybacks.html Tags/Keywords: event textbook buyback Download this event 10:00am to 5:00pm Textbook Buybacks Textbook Buybacks Event Date: Monday, May 2, 2022 - 10:00am to 5:00pm Location: North Hall Lobby Event Details: The University Store will be buying back textbooks May 2-6 from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. in the North Hall Lobby. Student ID is required. Can’t make it? Learn about selling your textbooks online. Event Link: https://universitystore.okstate.edu/textbooks/buybacks.html Tags/Keywords: event textbook buyback Download this event 10:00am to 5:00pm 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 2022 OSU-Tulsa Graduation Ceremony 2022 OSU-Tulsa Graduation Ceremony Event Date: Monday, May 9, 2022 - 6:30pm to 8:30pm Location: Union Multipurpose Activity Center (UMAC), Union High School Event Details: 2022 OSU-Tulsa Graduation Ceremony Monday, May 9, 2022 6:30 p.m. at Union Multipurpose Activity Center (UMAC), Union High School 6836 S Mingo Rd, Tulsa, OK 74133 RSVP for OSU-Tulsa Graduation Ceremony Get more information about the ceremony at tulsa.okstate.edu/graduation. Event Link: http://tulsa.okstate.edu/graduation Contact Email: tulsa.graduation@okstate.edu Contact Phone Number: 918-594-8252 Tags/Keywords: event Download this event 6:30pm to 8:30pm Discovering Education Research through ERIC | Virtual Workshop Discovering Education Research through ERIC | Virtual Workshop Event Date: Tuesday, May 10, 2022 - 1:00pm to 2:00pm Location: Online Event Details: Virtual Workshop | Discovering Education Research through ERIC May 10, 2022 1-2 p.m. Speaker Bio: Erin Pollard, ERIC Program Officer, Institute of Education Sciences, U.S. Department of Education Workshop Audience: This presentation is going to give an introduction to the free version of ERIC, eric.ed.gov. It will cover best practices for conducting searches, controlled vocabularies available to improve searching, fields unique to ERIC, and the types of material included in the database. It will also highlight how to use the API to help researchers conduct a systematic review and other less commonly known features. This is an event hosted by the U.S. Department of Education and the U.S. Government Publishing Office. Register to attend the live training webinar here. Presented by Edmon Low Library Faculty and brought to you by the OSU-Tulsa Library. Event Link: https://www.fdlp.gov/event/discovering-education-research-through-eric Event Cost: 0 Tags/Keywords: library Download this event 1:00pm to 2:00pm Spring: Final grades due by noon from faculty Spring: Final grades due by noon from faculty Event Date: Wednesday, May 11, 2022 - 12:00pm to 12:15pm Event Details: For more information about important spring semester dates, visit tulsa.okstate.edu/academics/calendar. Tags/Keywords: academic calendar Download this event 12:00pm to 12:15pm Motion Picture Storytelling Workshop Begins Motion Picture Storytelling Workshop Begins Event Date: Thursday, May 12, 2022 - 7:00pm to 9:00pm Event Details: Motion Picture Storytelling | 6-week workshop May 12, May 19, May 26, June 2, June 9, & June 16 from 7-9 p.m. OSU-Tulsa Everyone has a story to tell, and everyone has access to a camera. This workshop will introduce the process of learning to tell a story with limited tools to preserve, inspire, or share our stories with one another. REGISTER HERE Scholarships are available for those with financial need. Apply here. About the instructor Tvli Jacob has worked with Walt Disney, ABC, Touchstone Pictures, PBS, and many independent film productions. He is a producer, director, and writer who is passionate about telling the stories of Indigenous peoples. Registration will close at 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, May 10. Event Link: https://bit.ly/CPWTulsaWorkshops Event Cost: 225 Contact Name: Center for Poets and Writers at OSU-Tulsa Contact Email: cpwtulsa@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: center for poets and writers Download this event 7:00pm to 9:00pm Spring: Final grades available on transcripts Spring: Final grades available on transcripts Event Date: Friday, May 13, 2022 - 12:00am to 11:45pm Event Details: For more information about important spring semester dates, visit tulsa.okstate.edu/academics/calendar. Tags/Keywords: academic calendar Download this event 12:00am to 11:45pm CFR Chautauqua Conference on Family Resilience 2022 CFR Chautauqua Conference on Family Resilience 2022 Event Date: Friday, May 13, 2022 - 8:30am to 3:15pm Location: North Hall, B.S. Roberts Room Event Details: Chautauqua Conference on Family Resilience 2022 Identity as Resilience: Strengths Bases Approaches to Development among Youth, Family and Community Friday, May 13 | 8:30 a.m.-3:15 p.m. OSU-Tulsa, B.S. Roberts Room Register Now View the conference flyer online. Conference Sessions & Featured Speakers I’m that girl: Promoting Resilience and Reclaiming Black Girl Voice Sheretta T. Butler-Barnes, Ph.D., is an Associate Professor of Social Work at Washington University in St. Louis (WUSTL). A developmental psychologist and quantitative methodologist, Butler-Barnes line of research includes examining how Black youth draw on individual and cultural assets and resources to thrive despite challenges to their identities from structural, individual, and cultural racism. Her expertise and scholarly work are on Black children and youth, risk and resilience, academic achievement, and wellbeing. Butler-Barnes also has extensive experience in youth programming as it pertains to Black adolescent girls. Understanding African American Family Resiliency in the Context of Racial Trauma Renea L. Butler-King, Ph.D., is the Program Manager for the Center for Child Welfare Simulation and Training within the Anne and Henry Zarrow School of Social Work at the University of Oklahoma. She manages simulations of core training to advance skills in child welfare practice, as well as teach macro social work and human development courses. Her research is focused on Intergenerational Transmission of Historical Trauma (ITHxT) and racial trauma healing. She is particularly interested in early identification of racial trauma so that one can begin to engage in race literacy and healing. Dr. Butler-King is working to explore anti-bias, anti-racist literacy and impostor phenomena aimed at supporting secondary and higher educational fields. American Indian Identities and the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (ICWA) as Viewed Through Cultural Resilience Theory Virginia Drywater-Whitekiller, Ed.D., is a Professor of Social Work at Northeastern State University. In addition to full-time teaching, Dr. Drywater-Whitekiller pursues an active research agenda utilizing the theory of cultural resilience as applied to American Indian/Alaska Native/First Nations population issues such as microaggressions, higher education retention, identity, and Indian child welfare. In 2009 she was selected as a Smithsonian Community Scholar conducting research at the Smithsonian Archives in Suitland, Maryland. More recently, she served as the 2018-2019 Fulbright Canada Jarislowsky Research Chair in Aboriginal Studies at Vancouver Island University, British Columbia. The Legacy of Resiliency Embedded in African American Homeschooling Stacie Warner, M.Ed, is a fourth-year doctoral student in the Social Foundations of Education (SCFD) program at Oklahoma State University (OSU). Her research and scholarship address Intersectional Disabilities and African American homeschooling. Stacie is a graduate of the University of Central Oklahoma (UCO) with a Master of Education degree. She has over ten years of experience in adult education and training. She is also a veteran of the United States Air Force. Stacie has been married for 15 years, and she is the proud mother of two wonderful sons, Jeremiah and Jericho. Black Identity and Resilience as the Framework for Black Mental Health Research and Practice LaRicka R. Wingate, Ph.D., is a Professor of Psychology and Africana Studies affiliate faculty at Oklahoma State University. Dr. Wingate is dedicated to Black centered mental health research. She is particularly interested in those strengths thought to serve as protective factors for African Americans and other marginalized groups. She examines risk and protective factors that may be particularly salient to Black suicide and mental health, including the impact of acculturation, racial microaggressions, historical trauma, racial/ethnic discrimination, and intersectionality. Dr. Wingate has published more than 75 scholarly publications that have appeared in high quality academic journals. Chautauqua Conference on Family Resilience 2022 is presented by the OSU Center for Family Resilience, College of Education and Human Sciences and the OSU Center for Africana Studies, College of Arts and Sciences. Event Link: https://bit.ly/Chautauqua2022 Contact Email: cfr@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: center for family resilience conference event Download this event 8:30am to 3:15pm 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 Focus: Black Oklahoma Focus: Black Oklahoma Event Date: Sunday, November 21, 2021 - 3:00pm to 4:00pm Location: KOSU | 107.5 FM Event Details: Tri-City Collective, in partnership with KOSU, the Tulsa Artist Fellowship, and Oklahoma State University-Tulsa, created Focus: Black Oklahoma, an hour-long news and public affairs program on various topics relevant to the BIPOC communities statewide. Our show broadcasts monthly on KOSU and KWGS; both National Public Radio affiliates. Focus: Black Oklahoma features spotlight interviews supported by stories on current topics and events in our BIPOC communities. These topics include news, politics, current affairs, education, law, arts, family, health, relationships, sports, finances, business, spirituality, technology, and more. Focus: Black Oklahoma serves as a catalyst for change and understanding by strengthening Oklahoma's ability to create awareness for a more diverse and inclusive population. Event Link: https://www.tricitycollective.com/focus-black-oklahoma Contact Email: fbo@tricitycollective.com Contact Phone Number: 918-807-3886 Tags/Keywords: 100 Points diversity equity and inclusion truth racial healing and transformation Download this event Repeats every month on the third Sunday until Sat Dec 31 2022. 3:00pm to 4:00pm U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum’s Database for Survivor & Victim Names U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum’s Database for Survivor & Victim Names Event Date: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 - 1:00pm to 1:30pm Location: Online Event Details: Virtual Workshop | The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum’s Database for Holocaust Survivor and Victim Names May 17, 2022 1-1:30 p.m. Speaker: Sarah Kopelman-Noyes, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Senior Technical Information Specialist, Names Data Branch, National Institute for Holocaust Documentation Learning Outcomes: The Database for Holocaust Survivor and Victim Names (HSV) contains 12 million records on people persecuted during World War II under the Nazi regime. It brings together information from the Museum’s collections, as well as from other organizations, about individual survivors and victims into one search tool. This webinar will highlight the many ways the USHMM gathers this data and the efforts made to ensure this data is made available to the public. Learn how the HSV Database allows anyone to search for a name of a survivor or victim of Nazi persecution (even via Google), find information about that individual, and in some cases request a copy of the original document. This is an event hosted by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and the U.S. Government Publishing Office. Register to attend the live training webinar here. Please note this is an online event. The online event URL will be sent to you in an email confirming your registration. Presented by Edmon Low Library Faculty and brought to you by the OSU-Tulsa Library. Event Link: https://okstate.libcal.com/event/9099915 Tags/Keywords: library Download this event 1:00pm to 1:30pm Transfer Day Transfer Day Event Date: Wednesday, May 18, 2022 - 9:00am to 6:00pm Location: North Hall 130 Event Details: Enroll for classes or explore opportunities during OSU-Tulsa Transfer Days. Get more details at tulsa.okstate.edu/transferdays. Event Link: https://orange.okstate.edu/register/OSUTulsaTransferDay05182022 Tags/Keywords: advising enrollment Download this event 9:00am to 6:00pm Finding Your Place in Business Sustainability Finding Your Place in Business Sustainability Event Date: Thursday, May 19, 2022 - 6:30pm to 7:30pm Location: Online via Zoom Event Details: Want to make a difference in the world? Interested in working in Sustainability, but not sure how to get started? Join us on May 19th at 6:30 PM to meet with industry professionals Kelsey Hughes, CEO of Sun Wolf Energy, and Jeri Fleming, sustainability director with the Grand River Dam Authority, as they discuss the importance of sustainability within business. They will share insider tips on where the jobs are, why they’re rewarding, and how to effectively network. OSU professor and practicing attorney, Dr. Jason Aamodt, will provide a brief overview of OSU’s degree programs in Business Sustainability. Register below for this virtual session. We'll send you the Zoom link along with a reminder to join us. We look forward to saving the planet with you. Considering undergraduate degree options? Register at: https://orange.okstate.edu/register/OSUTulsaSustainCareers051922 Considering graduate degree options? Register at: https://grad.okstate.edu/register/OSUTulsaSustainCareers051922GR Download this event 6:30pm to 7:30pm 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 Walking Tour: Greenwood District Walking Tour: Greenwood District Event Date: Tuesday, May 24, 2022 - 10:00am to 11:00am Location: Historic Greenwood District Event Details: Greenwood Walking Tour Hosted by Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation at OSU-Tulsa Tuesday, May 24 10 a.m. or 1 p.m. Register Now The Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation (TRHT) at OSU-Tulsa is hosting two walking tours of Tulsa's Historic Greenwood District. The tours will be guided by the center's director, Quraysh Ali Lansana. Register for a Greenwood Rising Visit This event is open to OSU-Tulsa & OSU-CHS faculty, staff and students with two time options: 10 a.m. or 1 p.m. Registration is required. We encourage those interested to register early as there is a maximum of 20 participants per tour, a total of 40 available spots. To register, please complete the online registration form. About the Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation at OSU-Tulsa The Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation (TRHT) at OSU-Tulsa is part of a nationwide, community-based initiative by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation to "plan for and bring about transformational and sustainable change, and to address the historic and contemporary effects of racism." Because of the deep history on and around the OSU-Tulsa campus – from the meeting of Creek, Cherokee and Osage Nation land to Black Wall Street and the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre – the work at OSU-Tulsa's Center for TRHT involves engaging community stakeholders to create programming and initiatives that benefit the north Tulsa community as well as the OSU-Tulsa campus community. Have questions about the center or the upcoming events? Visit the TRHT website or email tulsa_trht@okstate.edu. Event Link: https://bit.ly/maygwtour Event Cost: 0 Contact Name: Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation at OSU-Tulsa Contact Email: tulsa_trht@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: 100 Points community engagement diversity equity and inclusion event truth racial healing and transformation tulsa race massacre Download this event 10:00am to 11:00am Walking Tour: Greenwood District Walking Tour: Greenwood District Event Date: Tuesday, May 24, 2022 - 1:00pm to 2:00pm Location: Historic Greenwood District Event Details: Greenwood Walking Tour Hosted by Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation at OSU-Tulsa Tuesday, May 24 10 a.m. or 1 p.m. Register Now The Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation (TRHT) at OSU-Tulsa is hosting two walking tours of Tulsa's Historic Greenwood District. The tours will be guided by the center's director, Quraysh Ali Lansana. Register for a Greenwood Rising Visit This event is open to OSU-Tulsa & OSU-CHS faculty, staff and students with two time options: 10 a.m. or 1 p.m. Registration is required. We encourage those interested to register early as there is a maximum of 20 participants per tour, a total of 40 available spots. To register, please complete the online registration form. About the Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation at OSU-Tulsa The Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation (TRHT) at OSU-Tulsa is part of a nationwide, community-based initiative by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation to "plan for and bring about transformational and sustainable change, and to address the historic and contemporary effects of racism." Because of the deep history on and around the OSU-Tulsa campus – from the meeting of Creek, Cherokee and Osage Nation land to Black Wall Street and the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre – the work at OSU-Tulsa's Center for TRHT involves engaging community stakeholders to create programming and initiatives that benefit the north Tulsa community as well as the OSU-Tulsa campus community. Have questions about the center or the upcoming events? Visit the TRHT website or email tulsa_trht@okstate.edu. Event Link: https://bit.ly/maygwtour Event Cost: 0 Contact Name: Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation at OSU-Tulsa Contact Email: tulsa_trht@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: 100 Points community engagement diversity equity and inclusion event truth racial healing and transformation tulsa race massacre Download this event 1:00pm to 2:00pm 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 University Holiday - Memorial Day (Campus Closed) University Holiday - Memorial Day (Campus Closed) Event Date: Monday, May 30, 2022 - 12:00am to 11:45pm Event Details: OSU-Tulsa will be closed in observance of Memorial Day on Monday, May 30. For more information about important summer semester dates, visit https://tulsa.okstate.edu/academics/calendar. Tags/Keywords: academic calendar Download this event 12:00am to 11:45pm Pitch Clinic with Jennifer Hope Choi Pitch Clinic with Jennifer Hope Choi Event Date: Tuesday, May 31, 2022 - 7:00pm to 9:00pm Location: OSU-Tulsa Event Details: Pitch Clinic | 1-night workshop May 31 from 7-9 p.m. OSU-Tulsa Whether you’re an established writer or just starting out, pitching is an essential part of the publication process. As an editor for Bon Appétit, I have read, passed on, and greenlit countless pitches. As a writer who has published in places such as The New York Times, The Atlantic, and BuzzFeed News, I also understand the rigorous process one must undertake to make their pitch stand out from the crowd. In this short workshop, we’ll talk about what makes a pitch shine from the slush pile. We’ll review pitches that sold and pitches that miss the mark and why. We will also discuss your own pitches (submitted in advance) and workshop how to make them stronger. REGISTER HERE Scholarships are available for those with financial need. Apply here. About the instructor Jennifer Hope Choi is the recipient of the 2020-2022 Tulsa Artist Fellowship, the Carson McCullers Center’s Marguerite and Lamar Smith Fellowship, the BuzzFeed Emerging Writer Fellowship, and the AHL Foundation’s Art Writers Grant. She is also a Bread Loaf and Sewanee Writers’ Conference scholar and an Aspen Words fellow. She has been anthologized in Best American Travel Writing and A Measure of Belonging: Twenty-One Writers of Color on the New American South. Her writing has appeared in The New York Times, Virginia Quarterly Review, Guernica, The American Scholar, Bon Appétit, Lucky Peach, BuzzFeed Reader, The Atlantic, and elsewhere. She is currently working on a memoir. Registration will close at 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, May 26. Event Link: https://bit.ly/CPWTulsaWorkshops Event Cost: 30 Contact Name: Center for Poets and Writers at OSU-Tulsa Contact Email: cpwtulsa@okstate.edu Tags/Keywords: center for poets and writers Download this event 7:00pm to 9:00pm ConferencePerformanceSpecial Event Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000