Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Blog Navigation Blogs Home Latest Blog Posts OSU-Tulsa: We're built on transfer student success Dismantling Racism: A Toolkit for Parents | TulsaKids Magazine Listen: Dr. Sarah Johnson of the Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling on the Mental Health Download Podcast Blog OSU-Tulsa: We're built on transfer student success Submitted by osutulsa on Mon, 10/19/2020 - 10:00am The week of Oct. 19-23, 2020 is national #TransferStudentWeek. When people think about transfer students, they may have a particular kind of transfer student in mind. They may picture the freshman who gets homesick after the first semester away at college. They may imagine the junior who wants to change to a major their university doesn’t offer or the adult student returning to school after a hiatus. At Oklahoma State University-Tulsa, most of our students are transfer students. Read more about OSU-Tulsa: We're built on transfer student success osutulsa's blog Dismantling Racism: A Toolkit for Parents | TulsaKids Magazine Submitted by osutulsa on Mon, 08/24/2020 - 9:44am OSU-Tulsa faculty Quraysh Ali Lansana teamed up with TulsaKids Magazine for a series of discussions designed to help parents understand systemic racism and how to address it with their children. Read more about Dismantling Racism: A Toolkit for Parents | TulsaKids Magazine osutulsa's blog Listen: Dr. Sarah Johnson of the Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling on the Mental Health Download Podcast Submitted by osutulsa on Thu, 08/13/2020 - 6:00pm "We're all experiencing something that none of us have ever experienced before. We are not supposed to know how to navigate it by yourself. So this is a wonderful time to take that step. Reach out. We will embrace you and affirm you and work with you through whatever it is you are dealing with right now." Dr. Sarah Johnson, Director, Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling at OSU-Tulsa Read more about Listen: Dr. Sarah Johnson of the Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling on the Mental Health Download Podcast osutulsa's blog TulsaKids Coronavirus Q&A Submitted by osutulsa on Wed, 07/22/2020 - 12:20pm OSU-Tulsa experts teamed up with TulsaKids Magazine to help answer many of the questions Tulsa-area families have surrounding COVID-19 and the measures taken to prevent the spread of the virus. This four-part live video series originally aired on OSU-Tulsa's Facebook page via Facebook Live. COVID-19's Impact on Mental Health Read more about TulsaKids Coronavirus Q&A osutulsa's blog Student Spotlight: Blaze Heckert Submitted by osutulsa on Fri, 07/17/2020 - 11:46am Oklahoma State University-Tulsa is home to the Materials Science and Engineering program in the Helmerich Research Center and researchers like graduating Ph.D student Blaze Heckert. Heckert carved a name for himself with his chemistry expertise and love for developing new materials. Read more about Student Spotlight: Blaze Heckert osutulsa's blog Grieving things that have been canceled or postponed | Mental Wellness Submitted by osutulsa on Mon, 04/06/2020 - 4:13pm For many of us, life has practically changed overnight. As a result of COVID-19, the loss that we, as a nation and globally, are experiencing has been sudden, ambiguous and traumatic. Many of us have felt blindsided by the enormity of this pandemic and the layers of loss that accompany it. Read more about Grieving things that have been canceled or postponed | Mental Wellness osutulsa's blog What's the Use in Fair Use? Submitted by osutulsa on Mon, 02/24/2020 - 12:00am The Association of Research Libraries commissioned Feb. 24-28 as Fair Use/Fair Dealing Week to celebrate and raise awareness about fair use. Read more about What's the Use in Fair Use? osutulsa's blog Looking to advance in your career? There’s a Career Services event for that. Submitted by osutulsa on Wed, 01/15/2020 - 12:00am Each semester OSU-Tulsa Career Services hosts Career Events and the knowledge and tips you’ll gain by attending are going to be invaluable. Trust us. Read more about Looking to advance in your career? There’s a Career Services event for that. osutulsa's blog Semester Kick-Off! Submitted by osutulsa on Sun, 01/12/2020 - 1:36pm Spring Semester officially kicks off today! Welcome! Welcome Week Treats We're celebrating Welcome Week with free food in the North Hall Lobby starting at 3:30 p.m., Jan. 13-16. You can also get a free t-shirt when you stop by the Career Services in North Hall 130! Read more about Semester Kick-Off! osutulsa's blog I’m not graduating or looking for a job, so why should I go to the Career Fair? Submitted by osutulsa on Fri, 09/27/2019 - 12:00am Good question. Every semester, OSU-Tulsa Career Services hosts a career fair in the Main Hall Commons geared toward all degrees. Students, alumni and the public are welcome to join us – especially the students who are about to graduate. But what if you’re someone who has just started their OSU-Tulsa experience? Should you still attend the career fair? The answer is: YES! Read more about I’m not graduating or looking for a job, so why should I go to the Career Fair? osutulsa's blog Pages 1 2 3 4 next › last » Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000