Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information News and Information News Home In the News The Current OSU-Tulsa Blog Weather Information May « » S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Creating Opportunities: Ricky Graham Published: Thursday, May 5, 2022 OSU-Tulsa class of 2022 student Ricky Graham grew up in a family whose motto was “Make it to the NBA!” He was an exceptional talent from a young age. In fifth grade, he led the Baby Hornets to victory at Tulsa’s Walt Whitman Elementary. After a move to the St. Louis area, Graham made the varsity team as a high school sophomore; by his senior year he was team captain. When it came time to plan for college, he faced an obstacle that still fills him with anger and motivation. He asked his coach for help getting into Missouri State – but the coach refused, despite Graham’s talent and qualifications. A white student was the coach’s choice instead, a point that was made clear to Graham. “That racism hurt, I was really hurt,” Graham said. “It messed with me for many years.” Finding a new path Graham’s dedication to higher education ultimately took him to a couple of community colleges, including Tulsa Community College. New fatherhood caused him to put his education on pause, but when the time was right he picked it up again and kept working toward his goal. In 2019, Graham transferred from TCC to OSU-Tulsa. The flexibility offered by the class schedules at OSU-Tulsa made it possible for him to pursue and achieve his academic goals at a pace that worked for him. Graham graduates in May with a Bachelor of Arts degree in multidisciplinary studies. With the recent arrival of twins, he and his wife are now the proud parents of three boys. At times, it would have been easier for Graham to forgo higher education to have more time to focus on his family, but Graham finds his academic pursuits rewarding. Now, with a flexible bachelor’s degree under his belt, he’s begun applying to master’s degree programs. “I want to earn the highest degree in my field. I got tired of being a statistic,” Graham said. Though his graduate plans are still evolving, he is particularly interested in psychology programs. “I want to understand how the mind works.” NBA hopeful For the past year, Graham has also served as operations coordinator for the Thunder Fellows, a collaborative project of the Oklahoma City Thunder and Creative Arts Agency (CAA) designed to address the racial opportunity and wealth gaps in Oklahoma communities and unlock new opportunities in sports, entertainment and technology for Black high school and college students in the Tulsa area. Rooted in the historic Greenwood District, the Thunder Fellows offers a data and analytics curriculum that is uniquely tailored to industry standards and designed to teach the kids programming and other career skills. The 30-week program also leverages a strategic pipeline of local and national corporations to provide exclusive access to mentors, professional coaching and meaningful employment opportunities for young Tulsans. Graham says in addition to coordinating the operations of the program, he serves as a sort of unofficial big brother to the kids. “I tell them to come to me with anything and I will help,” he said. “This job is like a dream come true.” Although it wasn’t the path he imagined as a kid, Graham did end up making to the NBA – and so far his legacy with the Thunder Fellows is one of transformation and hope. Tags/Keywords: community engagement news student stories Media Contact: Aaron Campbell | 918-594-8046 | aaron.ross.campbell@okstate.edu Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000