Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Faculty / Staff Faculty and Staff Home Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team Employment Opportunities Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty List Faculty Support Services Green Screen Room Reservations Professional Development Staff Advisory Council Staff Service Awards OSU-Tulsa Behavioral Consultation Team The OSU-Tulsa Behavioral Consultation Team (BCT) is a specially trained group of professional staff members from several campus departments with mental health, student services, law enforcement, academic, administrative and legal expertise. The team investigates and evaluates threats and other concerning behavior, then implements strategies for managing individuals that may pose a threat of harm. The team’s goal is to work with all parties involved to effect a safe campus environment. If you see something, say something. Everyone at OSU-Tulsa has a role to play in keeping campus safe. The BCT is unable to mitigate a situation until they are aware of it. OSU-Tulsa expects all members of our community to act quickly and responsibly if they hear or see something that is out of the ordinary. It’s important to report any concerns, even if they seem minor. Don’t assume someone else will call. Contact the Team In an emergency, call 911 Behavioral Consultation Team Hotline: 918-613-5415 M-F 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. only After business hours non emergency, call OSU-Tulsa Police at 918-594-8124 You may also notify a member of our team: Emonica Reagan-Neeley Director, Student Affairs, 918-594-8234 Jennifer Smith Assistant Director, Student Affairs, 918-594-8450 Dr. Sarah Johnson Director, OSU-Tulsa Counseling Center, 918-594-8585 Dr. Susan Johnson Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, 918-594-8102 Sergeant Justin Hart OSU-Tulsa Police, 405-744-6523 If you have a concern about a student, you can also use the OSU-Tulsa Student Conduct Incident Report Form. Frequently Asked Questions Content directly adapted from the OSU Behavioral Consultation Team website. What kind of things should be reported? Report anything that is suspicious or makes you concerned. Direct threats, extreme displays of emotion, obsession with violence or death, possession of a weapon or explosive device, inappropriate classroom behavior, unusual fixation on another person, manipulative behavior, extreme weight gain or loss, expression of intent to harm oneself, severe disorientation and apparent lack of touch with reality should all be reported. Should I report to the OSU Stillwater or OSU-Tulsa BCT? If you are unsure whether to contact the OSU Stillwater BCT or the OSU-Tulsa BCT (for instance, in the case of an online class) please contact whichever team you feel most comfortable with. The campuses work together and share information, and your report will be sent to the appropriate place. Will the person that I’m reporting know it was me? That depends on the situation. If you’d like your identity to remain unknown to the person you are reporting, please note that in your report. What happens when I make a report? The team receives and prioritizes the information, then immediately begins an investigation. Often the initial report is just one piece of the puzzle. Something one person observes can turn out to be nothing or an indication of a larger problem. The team attempts to understand the whole of a person’s behavior patterns before making any decisions. Is OSU-Tulsa overreacting? No. Threat assessment has been going on at OSU since 1985 and is conducted in a careful and deliberate manner. The people on the team are professionals who are specially trained in handling these situations. Will I find out what happens? That depends on the situation. Various privacy and confidentiality laws apply to the situations handled by the BCT. The team can explain this to you. I don’t want to get anyone in trouble and I’m not really sure this is a big deal? The purpose of the BCT is not to get anyone in trouble. In most instances, we are able to resolve the situation without disciplinary action or criminal prosecution against the person involved. If you are unsure about whether or not you should say something, report it! Trust your instincts. What about privacy? Aren’t I prohibited from disclosing student information by FERPA? Not in this situation. Everyone on the team is a university employee with a legitimate educational interest, which means FERPA expressly permits the sharing of any and all information from you to the team. The team will make decisions about who else may need to be contacted to resolve the issue. Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000