Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Future Students Future Students Information Degree and Certificate Programs College of Professional Studies Request Information Contact Us Degree and Certificate Programs Offered at OSU-Tulsa Skip to Graduate Programs Undergraduate OSU-Tulsa is a transfer university -- that means we only offer junior- and senior-level courses. Students usually transfer with an associate's degree or at least 45 credit hours. OSU-Tulsa students earn the same OSU bachelor's degree that students in Stillwater receive. This list represents degree and certificate programs where all coursework can be taken at OSU-Tulsa or online unless otherwise specified. Students enrolled in majors not listed here may be able to take some coursework toward their degree program at OSU-Tulsa. Make an advising appointment with an academic counselor to discuss the degree program that interests you. If you are interested in a minor, you can also view the minors offered at OSU-Tulsa. Bachelor's Degree Programs Accounting Become a trusted accountant, advisor, auditor or financial reporting and tax expert supporting businesses and organizations in the global marketplace. Aerospace Administration and Operations Prepare for careers in aerospace, aviation and related areas. Options available in Aviation Management and Technical Services Management. American Studies Examine the history, culture and society of the United States from multiple perspectives while learning to think critically, analyze information, and communicate in a variety of formats. Communication Sciences and Disorders Pre-professional education for careers in Speech-Language Pathology or Audiology. Computer Science Learn in-demand programming skills for careers in software development and information technology. Elementary Education Become a teacher for grades 1-8. Finance Develop a broad understanding of financial activities and the tools of financial analysis. General Business Gain a broad understanding of all business areas with this flexible program and its many minor options. Pre-law option is available. History Learn about past cultures and societies to better understand the present and make an impact in government, non-profit organizations, cultural institutions or education. Human Development and Family Science: Child and Family Services Help families and children in the community in a variety of non-profit, education and agency environments. Industrial Engineering and Management A blend of engineering and management education that includes knowledge in engineering, science, humanities, social science and management, preparing graduates for a wide variety of industries including manufacturing and energy. International Business Gain a fundamental understanding of the global business environment and making decisions in an international setting. Multidisciplinary Studies A flexible degree combining course work across several Arts and Sciences social sciences and humanities disciplines, tailored to your unique academic and career goals. Management Prepare for leadership careers with business or nonprofit organizations. Optional specializations include Business Sustainability, Human Resource Management and Sports Management. Management Information Systems Study the business applications of information technology with expertise in information systems and business administration. An optional specialization in Information Assurance is available. Marketing Learn to identify wants and needs of buyers and develop products, distribution channels, price and communications to satisfy those wants and needs. Mechanical Engineering Study at OSU-Tulsa's Helmerich Research Center and use fundamental engineering principles and analysis tools to solve real technological problems in society. Organizational Leadership A Bachelor of Professional Studies degree that helps students advance in their workplace. Political Science Prepare for a wide range of local, state, national and international careers in and around government. Psychology Gain an understanding of human behavior in this flexible program ideal for students seeking to continue to graduate or professional programs, or those interested in a second major or minor. Public Health Prepare to provide preventative or rehabilitative health services in a variety of health-based settings. Options in Community Health and Exercise and Health. (Formerly Health Education and Promotion.) Public Safety A Bachelor of Professional Studies degree that provides the knowledge and skills to take on a variety of roles in the public safety sector. Sociology Ideal for those seeking careers in social services, law or social justice, this program teaches the knowledge and skills to make a difference in a changing world. Strategic Communication: Entertainment Media Make your mark in Tulsa's entertainment industry with this option designed for students who desire a career in public relations, advertising, brand management or related strategic roles in the entertainment media industry. University Studies A flexible degree program that makes the most of the college credits you already have and is tailored to your unique interests and career goals. Courses Also Available In... OSU-Tulsa offers some course work in the following areas, but does not offer the full bachelor's degree. Students interested in earning a bachelor's degree in one of these programs may have to take some course work in Stillwater, online or make other arrangements. Contact the OSU-Tulsa Academic Advising office for information on advisement for the following program areas. Africana Studies Aerospace Administration and Operations: Aerospace Security Biology Chemistry Ecology Economics English Evolution Law, Crime, Forensics and Social Justice Plant Biology Graduate OSU-Tulsa students earn the same OSU graduate degree that students in Stillwater receive. This list represents programs where all coursework can be taken at OSU-Tulsa or online unless otherwise specified. Students enrolled in graduate programs not listed here may be able to take some coursework toward their degree program at OSU-Tulsa. Contact OSU-Tulsa Graduate Student Services for more information. Master's Degree Programs Business Administration (MBA) A strong, broad-based, professional graduate degree designed to develop your managerial competence and improve decision-making, communication and leadership skills. Concentrations are available in a variety of business areas. Counseling A practitioner model of counselor training designed to prepare students for professional counseling roles in a variety of mental health and school settings. Options available in mental health and school counseling. Educational Leadership Studies Foster the improvement of educational institutions through leadership. Option in School Administration. Environmental Science - Professional Science Master's An environmental health and safety master's degree program geared toward those interested in working with industry, consulting or regulatory agencies. No entrance exam or thesis required. Geoscience - Professional Science Master's Human Development and Family Science: Applied Human Services Gain the skills and knowledge to provide leadership in diverse human services careers. Human Development and Family Science: Development and Family Science Pursue research to reduce risk and enhance resilience for individuals and families. Interdisciplinary Studies - Create Your Own Master's Degree Stack graduate certificates or combine certificates and other focused graduate coursework to create a flexible, customized master's degree tailored to your career goals. Management Information Systems Focus on providing solutions to business information and data needs, including courses in database management, data warehousing, systems analysis, analytics and programming. Materials Science and Engineering Conduct world-class research in advanced materials for energy technologies, bio-materials for medical technologies, advanced materials for aerospace and defense and materials for electronics and control technologies. Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Public Health Teaching, Learning and Leadership Become a leader in elementary, secondary or higher education with this degree program with specializations in curriculum and leadership studies, K-12 education, math and science education, and workforce and adult education available in Tulsa. Courses Also Available In... OSU-Tulsa offers some course work in the following master's degree programs. Students interested in earning a master's degree in one of these programs may have to take some course work in Stillwater or make other arrangements. Contact OSU-Tulsa Graduate Student Services to connect with a faculty graduate advisor who can discuss the degree program that interests you. Communication Sciences and Disorders Engineering and Technology Management Environmental Engineering Industrial Engineering and Management Mass Communications Doctoral Degree Programs Education, Ph.D. The Ph.D. in Education program is designed to prepare future scholars and leaders in the field of education. Options available in Tulsa include Curriculum Studies and Professional Education Studies. Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, Ph.D. Options available in Tulsa include Educational Administration and Higher Education. Materials Science and Engineering, Ph.D. Conduct world-class research in advanced materials for energy technologies, bio-materials for medical technologies, advanced materials for aerospace and defense and materials for electronics and control technologies. School Administration, Ed.D. A transdisciplinary doctoral degree where each student has a unique opportunity to develop a degree plan that specifically addresses individual career goals. Courses Also Available In... OSU-Tulsa offers some course work in the following doctoral degree programs. Students interested in earning a doctoral degree in one of these programs may have to take some course work in Stillwater or make other arrangements. Contact OSU-Tulsa Graduate Student Services to be connected with a faculty graduate advisor who can discuss the degree program that interests you. Curriculum Studies Human Sciences Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate certificates enable you to obtain an Oklahoma State University graduate credential without the time and financial investment of a full master's degree. Many graduate certificate programs can be completed in about one year, and the credits may be applied to a related master's degree program. Many of our graduate certificates are federal financial aid eligible. Business Sustainability College Teaching Engineering and Technology Management Entrepreneurship Environmental Science with Regulatory Certifications Human Resource Management Infant Mental Health Information Assurance Online Teaching Courses Also Available In... OSU-Tulsa offers some course work in the following graduate certificate programs. Students interested in earning a graduate certificate in one of these programs may have to take some course work in Stillwater or make other arrangements. Contact OSU-Tulsa Graduate Student Services to be connected with a faculty graduate advisor who can discuss the degree program that interests you. Building-Level Leadership District-Level Leadership Educational and Psychological Measurement Effective Teaching in Elementary Schools Effective Teaching in Secondary Schools Health Analytics Non-Profit Management Program Evaluation Workforce and Adult Education View a comprehensive list of OSU's degree requirements at the OSU Stillwater website. Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000