Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Blog Navigation Blogs Home Latest Blog Posts OSU-Tulsa: We're built on transfer student success Dismantling Racism: A Toolkit for Parents | TulsaKids Magazine Listen: Dr. Sarah Johnson of the Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling on the Mental Health Download Podcast Grieving things that have been canceled or postponed | Mental Wellness Submitted by osutulsa on Mon, 04/06/2020 - 4:13pm For many of us, life has practically changed overnight. As a result of COVID-19, the loss that we, as a nation and globally, are experiencing has been sudden, ambiguous and traumatic. Many of us have felt blindsided by the enormity of this pandemic and the layers of loss that accompany it. Weddings, childcare, visiting loved ones, celebrating religious traditions and holidays, employment, medical operations and mental health resources—these are just some examples of what has been postponed or even canceled due to COVID-19. Feeling disappointed about your losses and the plans that have changed is not selfish, it is valid. The grief you are experiencing deserves acknowledgment. Mourn. Go through the stages of grief – denial, anger, bargaining, depression and tolerance. Give yourself permission to feel the way you do and experience your emotions. Remind yourself that healing is not linear and the stages of grief may not happen in a particular order. It is perfectly normal for your emotions to come in waves. Embrace the concept of both/and. Both/and means that we can experience two things at once; it is the idea that more than one emotion can exist at the same time. It may seem selfish and insensitive to be disappointed that your vacation is being postponed when people are dying. Try to remember that one emotion does not negate another. Stop comparing. Do not compare your grief and losses to those around you. When it comes to pain and suffering, there is no hierarchy, as loss is not a contest. Allow yourself and others to express concern and other emotions, openly and without judgment. Remember: These are unprecedented times. We have heard the term “unprecedented” used to describe this pandemic. The newness of this is even included in the name, ‘Novel’ Coronavirus – 19. This means there is no “right” way to cope. Not having a protocol to follow can be anxiety provoking, but it can also be seen as an opportunity to discover the tools and techniques that help you cope during a time of distress. Stay in the present. Anticipatory grief is what we experience when we are uncertain about what the future holds. Do what you can to stay grounded and mindful of where you are now. This can be done using grounding techniques (e.g. name 5 things you see, 4 things you can touch, 3 things you can hear, 2 things you can smell, and 1 thing you can taste.) If you’re struggling with processing your grief, the Al Carlozzi Center for Counseling can help. Clinicians are seeing patients using Virtual Telehealth Counseling Sessions and are still accepting new clients. Learn more at the center’s website and call 918-594-8568 with any questions. Looking for more tips? Check out these other helpful resources: Coping with grief during uncertain times Coronavirus and bereavement Understanding the stages of grief Tags/Keywords: counseling osutulsa's blog Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000