Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Safety OSU-Tulsa Safety Weather and Emergency Closures Safety on Campus Rave Guardian Public Safety Guide and Crime Report Silent Witness University Police Weather and Emergency Closures Weather in Oklahoma can be unpredictable, particularly in the winter. OSU-Tulsa makes every effort to keep campus open and clear of ice, snow and other impediments. However, there are times when weather, road and other conditions require us to move to virtual operations, close or cancel classes for the safety of our students, faculty, staff and guests. This page will help you understand the language we use in announcing virtual campus, campus closures or class cancelations and how OSU-Tulsa leadership makes these decisions. If you do not see a virtual campus, closure or cancelation notice on the OSU-Tulsa website, social media or in your okstate.edu email, then OSU-Tulsa is open for normal business and class hours, except for announced University holidays. Definitions The following definitions will help you understand the language used to announce schedule changes and what you can expect for each. Virtual Campus All physical campus offices are closed other than those deemed essential to the protection of life and property, and other campus services are available online. Virtual campus operations includes the following actions: Faculty have the choice to move classes scheduled at OSU-Tulsa online or to cancel the class session. Students should monitor their email and Canvas for communication from their instructor All meetings and events scheduled on the Tulsa campus are moved online or canceled at the meeting organizer's discretion OSU-Tulsa administrative offices move to virtual services with the exception of those offices necessary to maintain the safety and security of the facility Staff should check in with their supervisor for direction regarding remote work. How to Find Your OSU-Tulsa Classes To see which of your courses are OSU-Tulsa courses, view your class schedule in Self-Service Banner: From Self-Service, select the Student tab and then the Registration link. Your schedule can be viewed under the View Registration Information link. See the “Location” or “Campus” field depending on the view. Visit the View My Class Schedule webpage for more details on the different ways to view your class schedule. Campus Closure All campus operations are closed other than those deemed essential to the protection of life and property. Campus closure includes the following actions: Cancelation of all classes scheduled at OSU-Tulsa during the period of closing Cancelation of all meetings and events scheduled on the Tulsa campus Closing of all OSU-Tulsa administrative offices with the exception of those offices necessary to maintain the safety and security of the facility Administrative leave granted for staff not reporting to work because of closing in accordance with OSU Human Resources Inclement Weather policies and procedures. For staff, the appropriate policy is 3-0713, Attendance and Leave for Staff, section 8.01, Inclement Weather. Classes Canceled, Campus Open All OSU-Tulsa academic classes are canceled, but the OSU-Tulsa campus remains open. Class cancelation includes the following actions: Cancelation of all classes scheduled at OSU-Tulsa during the period of closing Administrative offices open during regular hours unless specifically stated otherwise Cancelation of classes does not excuse any staff member from work. Campus events and meetings held at the discretion of the organizer and will proceed as scheduled unless canceled by the organizer Delayed Opening All OSU-Tulsa operations are closed for a designated period of time other than those operations deemed essential to the protection of life and property. The length of delay is based on conditions that are expected to improve or become less hazardous after a certain amount of time. General Guidelines The campus of OSU-Tulsa will be closed if weather or other emergency situations are judged to threaten the security or safety of staff, faculty, students and visitors. Information considered by OSU-Tulsa Administration OSU-Tulsa’s executive team consider the following information when deciding whether to close campus: Status of OSU-Stillwater and the Big Orange Bus. Due to impact on faculty and students, OSU-Tulsa will cancel classes if BOB is not running due to inclement weather conditions. (Note: As described in the Definitions section, class cancelation is different from a campus closure.) Tulsa is 70 miles east of Stillwater and may have different weather and road conditions. The OSU-Tulsa campus is non-residential. Tulsa-area higher education closure status. OSU-Tulsa does not automatically close if local school districts close. K-12 students have different safety considerations than adults. Status of the city of Tulsa and Tulsa County offices and operations, including the operating status of Tulsa Transit. Road conditions to and from OSU-Tulsa from within the city and surrounding areas, as well as road conditions on campus. The condition of campus parking lots and sidewalks. Assessments by OSU-Tulsa Police and Facilities Management of safety on campus such as tree damage, power to buildings and icy conditions. Assumption of Personal Risk and Responsibility Whether inclement weather or other conditions exist on or around the OSU-Tulsa campus, the assumption of risk is a decision each individual must make even if OSU-Tulsa remains open. Students, faculty, staff and visitors are responsible for their own safety and should use their best judgment about traveling to or from campus. Students should communicate with their instructor as soon as possible if they decide not to attend class due to inclement weather or other hazardous conditions. Faculty are encouraged to accommodate students who are unable to attend class due to inclement weather or other conditions. Students may be unable to reach campus due to unsafe driving conditions outside the Tulsa area. Staff have the responsibility to communicate with their supervisor if they deem conditions too unsafe to attempt to report for their shift. Please see OSU Human Resources Inclement Weather policies and procedures for more information. Closing Decision Procedures When possible and after assessment of conditions, OSU-Tulsa will provide a public message by 6 a.m. on the morning of any level of closure via the University’s alert system and media outlets as follows: Send a message via Cowboy Alert (RAVE) Post messaging as needed on website, Facebook and Twitter. Notify local media outlets of OSU-Tulsa’s status Notify Conference Center clients Notify external tenants who have opted in to a designated email distribution list Note: OSU Center for Health Sciences, OSU Stillwater or shared faculty and staff officing or leasing space at OSU-Tulsa should opt-in to OSU-Tulsa RAVE (Cowboy) Alerts to receive information about campus closing. Early closing Deteriorating conditions may prompt evaluation for an early closing. The protocol is the same as outlined above. A decision to cancel evening classes at OSU-Tulsa will be communicated by 2 p.m. Cowboy Alert NWS Text Messages for Tornado Warnings Cowboy Alert subscribers will receive notification via text message when the National Weather Service declares a tornado warning in an area within 10 miles of the OSU-Tulsa campus. Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to sign up for Cowboy Alert to receive tornado warnings and other emergency text and voicemail alerts on campus. The system helps alert subscribers about campus emergencies, such as weather-related closings, active shooters or immediate biohazard threats. To opt in to the Cowboy Alert system, log in to the O-KEY system, click on Campus Alerts and Notifications in the left column and add your contact information. Please allow one business day for your request to be processed. Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000