Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Campus Life Campus Life Home New Student Orientation Student Organizations President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Below is a summary of the active student clubs and organizations on campus. If you don't see an organization that interests you, start your own group. Drop by Campus Life in North Hall 103 and let us show you what it takes to start an organization or how to get involved. Addiction & Mental Health Advocacy Association (AMHA) AMHA provides awareness of addiction and mental health concerns at OSU and within the community, coordinates campus and community service opportunities, and supports the development of addiction advocacy and addiction professionals. Interested students can contact Dr. Valerie McGaha at valerie.mcgaha@okstate.edu to learn more. African American Student Association (AASA) AASA’s purpose is to provide unity to African-American students through programs designed to address educational and social concerns. OSU-Tulsa’s AASA chapter has co-sponsored events such as Gospel Fest and panel discussions. Contact: Emonica Reagan at 918-594-8234 American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) The OSU-Tulsa student chapter of ASME was established to provide an opportunity for students to begin their careers by joining a professional engineering society and to support OSU’s Mechanical Engineering program. Contact: Dr. Khaled Sallam at khaled.sallam@okstate.edu. Chi Sigma Iota Chi Sigma Iota is the international honor society of professional counseling and for professional counselors. CSI was created for counselors-in-training, counselor educators, and professional counselors whose career commitment is to research and service through professional counseling. Our mission is to promote scholarship, research, professionalism, leadership and excellence in counseling, and to recognize high attainment in the pursuit of academic and clinical excellence in the profession of counseling. Membership is based on academics and is invitation only. Please contact Dr. Tonya Hammer at tonya.hammer@okstate.edu for more information. Cineculture Club The purpose of Cineculture Club is to promote social and cultural awareness and address diversity issues through film and post-screening discussion. Students interested in participating may contact the club advisor, Dr. Denise Blum, at d.blum@okstate.edu. Educational Psychology Student Society (EPS2) The purpose of the Ed Psych Student Society is to promote academic excellence through networking and collaborating while addressing the needs of a community intellectually engaged in psychology. Contact: Dr. Diane Montgomery at diane.montgomery@okstate.edu or Dr. Harrist at steve.harrist@okstate.edu Health Promotion and Education Club (HHP Club) The HHP Club was established to provide for professional development and preparation beyond the regular classroom experience. Hispanic Student Association The Hispanic Student Association is focused on promoting awareness of Hispanic culture and fostering the development of social and educational opportunities for Hispanic students at OSU. For more information please contact Dr. Claudia Maldonado-Otto at claudia.otto@okstate.edu. HRC Graduate Student Association The goal of the Helmerich Research Center Graduate Student Association is to provide support and professional development to graduate students working and conducting research in the Helmerich Research Center. Members must be enrolled as a graduate student at OSU and working on a project in the HRC. Interested students may contact Dr. Vaidyanathan at 918-594-8645. International Student Ministries (ISM) International Student Ministries is a community organization whose purpose is to address the practical and spiritual needs of international students. For more information, please contact Do Young Kim at doyoung.kim@okstate.edu. International Student Organization (iSO) The International Student Organization is for international students attending OSU-Tulsa or any American students who are interested in international culture and diversity. The goal of ISO is to foster a spirit of friendship and cooperation among all international students at OSU-Tulsa. If you’re interested in participating, contact Glenda Ross at glenda.ross10@okstate.edu. National Student Speech Language Hearing Association (NSSLHA) NSSLHA is a pre-professional membership association for students interested in the study of communication sciences and disorders. Membership is available to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled full- or part-time in a communication sciences program or related major. Contact: Monica Bein at monica.bien@okstate.edu Omicron Tau Theta (OTΘ) OTT is the graduate honor society for the profession of vocational, technical, workforce and career education. Professionals who actively engage in the field of vocational-technical education and are committed to career and technical education are eligible for membership in OTT. Graduate students majoring in career and technical education who meet stringent academic standards are also eligible. Membership is by invitation only and is usually initiated by local chapters of Omicron Tau Theta. Contact: Brian Sandford at 405-744-3461 Society for the Advancement of Material & Process Engineering (SAMPE) The Society for the Advancement of Material and Process Engineering (SAMPE®) is a global professional member society that provides enhanced educational opportunities, by delivering information on new and advanced materials and processing technology. Membership is open to currently enrolled OSU students interested in a materials or process related field, including all engineering and science disciplines. Interested students may contact Dr. Vaidyanathan at vaidyan@okstate.edu. Student Center for the Public Trust Student CPT (Center for the Public Trust) is an ethical leadership club, created through NASBA (National Association of State Boards of Accountancy). With over 40 chapters on college campuses nationwide, Student CPT provides an interactive environment where ethical business behaviors and ideas can flourish, while creating opportunities for students to network with the business community and develop professional leadership skills. For more information or to become a member please contact the Student CPT Faculty Advisor, Rachel Cox at rachel.cox10@okstate.edu. Tau Sigma National Honor Society Tau Sigma is an academic honor society designed to recognize and promote the academic excellence and involvement of transfer students at OSU-Tulsa. Membership is by invitation only and is based on academic achievement. Contact: Susan Tolbart at 918-594-8313 Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000