Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Faculty / Staff Faculty and Staff Home Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team Employment Opportunities Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty List Faculty Support Services Green Screen Room Reservations Professional Development Staff Advisory Council Staff Service Awards Faculty Support Services Faculty Support Services Primary Email: tulfacsupportsvcs@okstate.edu Marcia Winder Administrative Assistant marcia.winder@okstate.edu North Hall 307 918-594-8276 Main Hall 2201 918-594-8277 Office Space Faculty Support Services assists commuting and adjunct faculty with their office space requests. Shared offices are available an hour before and after class. Requests should be emailed to tulfacsupportsvcs@okstate.edu for office space. Days and times should be specified in the request. If a request is made for a specific office, we will do our best to accommodate the request. Messages and Mail All faculty teaching at OSU-Tulsa have a mailbox available for their use. Announcements, student notes and other messages will also be placed in mailboxes. Faculty who office or teach in Main Hall may access their mailbox in Main Hall 2201 (Monday-Thursday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.). Main Hall 2201 is equipped with a key box for entry after hours; the code will be furnished to faculty upon request. Faculty who office or teach in North Hall can access their mailbox in North Hall 307 (Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.). North Hall 307 is equipped with a key box for entry after hours; the code will be furnished to faculty upon request. Shuttle and Motor Pool Reservations BOB, the Big Orange Bus, is the preferred method of transportation between Stillwater and Tulsa. Faculty should request their reservations as soon as possible or at least 24 hours in advance. If it becomes necessary to cancel a reservation, faculty are required to give 24 hours notice to avoid charges to their department. An alternative method of transportation is a motor pool car. Motor pool cars are available to faculty whose teaching schedules conflict with the shuttle schedule. Faculty should request motor pool reservations as soon as possible, or at least 24 hours in advance. If it becomes necessary to cancel a motor pool reservation, faculty are encouraged to give 24 hours notice. Photocopying Photocopying services are available in Faculty Support Services. Materials should be emailed or dropped off as soon as possible or at least 24 hours before the class meets to ensure that the materials will be ready. If you are copying a book, please allow at least two weeks. A copy code is available if you prefer to make your own copies. Scantron Machine The campus Scantron machine is located in North Hall 384. The room is equipped with a key box for entry after hours; the code will be furnished to faculty upon request. Scantron test scoring key sheets and analysis forms are available in all campus Faculty Support Services offices. Fax Machines Fax machines are located in the North Hall Faculty Support Services office (Fax: 918-594-8281); and in the Main Hall Faculty Support Services office (Fax: 918-594-8558). The fax machines are available for faculty use only. Student Materials Instructional materials, handouts, returned papers and other student materials may be left in one of the Faculty Support Services offices for students to pick up. Materials of this nature will remain in the office for one year. Other Resources Audio Visual Services Each classroom is equipped with multimedia capabilities and is Internet ready. Information pamphlets are located in each classroom. Problems or questions should be directed to the IT Help Desk at 4-HELP (405-744-4357). Classrooms Classrooms are locked when not in use. Faculty who need access to a locked classroom may contact Campus Police at 918-594-8123. Exam Proctoring The Testing Center offers testing services for faculty and students. Faculty may make arrangements to have make-up exams proctored by completing an Exam Proctoring Instructions form available at the OSU-Tulsa Testing Center website. Questions should be directed to Kim McCrackin at 918-594-8231. Business Cards and Stationery OSU-Tulsa faculty and staff order official business cards and stationery through Marketing and Communications Services. Contact Marketing and Communications Services with your request. Logos OSU-Tulsa Marketing and Communications Services assists academic departments and organizations with branding and graphics. Contact Marketing and Communications Services with your request. Oklahoma State University identity elements and "spirit" marks are only for use by the University's academic and athletic departments and university-sanctioned sports and spirit organizations. OSU's athletic spirit marks include the brand, the burning brand, the "O" series and the Pistol Pete image and mascot. The athletic logos should never be used in place of the primary OSU logo and nomenclature in any academic application. Athletic logos should never be used to promote non-athletic related activities or entities. Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000