Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Admission OSU-Tulsa Admission Home Online Application Pay Application Fee Fee Waiver Form Graduate Admission Information Online Transfer Credit Guides Transfer Maps Hours and Location North Hall 130 Monday & Wednesday 8 a.m. - 6 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday & Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Contact 918-594-8020 Applying and Getting Admitted to OSU-Tulsa Choose the option that best describes your needs: I want to transfer to OSU-Tulsa and complete a bachelor's degree. I want to transfer to OSU-Tulsa and complete a graduate degree. I was an OSU student and I would like to enroll again. I would like to take classes at OSU-Tulsa but am not pursuing a degree. View degree programs available at OSU-Tulsa Please Note Due to federal regulations, please be sure to bring one of the following forms of ID with you to campus: Driver's license or state-issued photo ID OSU ID Passport Military ID Undergraduate Admission Transferring to OSU-Tulsa Oklahoma State University-Tulsa offers only junior and senior undergraduate level courses. Individuals need to have completed a minimum of 24 hours to be eligible for classes on the Tulsa campus. Check with the Advisement Center for exceptions. If you would like to complete your full four-year degree in Tulsa, you can take your first two years at Tulsa Community College (or another two-year school) before transferring to OSU-Tulsa. To facilitate your admission to OSU-Tulsa, please provide all of the required documents listed below. Academic Requirements Credit Hours Completed GPA Requirements Campus 7-23 hours 2.25 GPA and meet freshman requirements Stillwater 24-59 hours 2.25 GPA Tulsa or Stillwater (Tulsa campus offers only junior- and senior-level courses.) 60+ hours or Associate Degree 2.0 GPA Tulsa or Stillwater Transfer Student Application Process There are three steps in the application process for transfer students. All steps must be completed in order to be admitted and be able to enroll in classes at OSU-Tulsa. Complete and submit the online application. Students applying for undergraduate admission can complete their application in more than one sitting if necessary. The essay questions are not required, but not doing so will limit scholarship opportunities at both the Tulsa and Stillwater campuses. Check here for additional requirements if applying as an international student. Pay the application fee. The OSU application fee is $40 ($90 for international students) and is nonrefundable. This fee must be paid before your application can be processed. Pay via the following methods: Pay online with VISA or Mastercard. Be sure to print and save your payment confirmation, as it may be required for admission purposes. Pay in person with cash, check or money order. Mail a check or money order payable to Oklahoma State University to OSU-Tulsa, Undergraduate Admissions Office, 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK 74106-0700. Oklahoma State University accepts application fee waivers for students based on demonstrated need. Waivers are approved based on the information provided on a student's FAFSA, so a student must complete the FAFSA before completing a fee waiver form (PDF download). Admission Application waivers based on military service are also available. Qualifications and instructions are provided within the application. Submit an official transcript from each and every college or university you have attended. All transcripts are required before your admission can be reviewed. All transcripts must be dated within the last three months and must be in SEALED envelopes. Transcripts can be delivered in person or mailed to: OSU-Tulsa, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK 74106-0700. Readmission Students If you withdrew the previous semester and are trying to apply for readmission, contact Enrollment Services at 918-594-8020 or visit the Enrollment Services office in North Hall 130 to determine if you need to reapply. A readmission student is defined as a student who has attended OSU-Tulsa or Stillwater but was not enrolled during the immediate past semester (except the summer session). Readmission criteria are based on a student’s status when they left OSU. There are four steps in the application process for readmission students. All steps must be completed in order to be admitted and be able to enroll in classes at OSU-Tulsa. Complete and submit the online application. Students applying for undergraduate admission can complete their application in more than one sitting if necessary. The essay questions are not required, but not doing so will limit scholarship opportunities at both the Tulsa and Stillwater campuses. Check here for additional requirements if applying as an international student. Pay the application fee. The OSU application fee is $40 ($90 for international students) and is nonrefundable. This fee must be paid before your application can be processed. Pay via the following methods: Pay online with VISA or Mastercard. Be sure to print and save your payment confirmation, as it may be required for admission purposes. Pay in person with cash, check or money order. Mail a check or money order payable to Oklahoma State University to OSU-Tulsa, Undergraduate Admissions Office, 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK 74106-0700. Oklahoma State University accepts application fee waivers for students based on demonstrated need. Waivers are approved based on the information provided on a student's FAFSA, so a student must complete the FAFSA before completing a fee waiver form (PDF download). Admission Application waivers based on military service are also available. Qualifications and instructions are provided within the application. Submit an official transcript from each and every college or university you have attended since you last attended OSU. If you previously submitted transcripts to OSU and there have been no changes (no additional classes taken), then you do not need to submit transcripts again. All new transcripts are required before your admission can be reviewed. All new transcripts must be dated within the last three months and must be in SEALED envelopes. Transcripts can be delivered in person or mailed to: OSU-Tulsa, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK 74106-0700. Submit a readmission petition. A student who left the university on probation or suspension may be required to submit a readmission petition and undergo the readmission appeal process. This process includes a review of the student’s academic record and the readmission petition. To determine whether or not a student is required to complete a petition review the following chart . Non-degree Seeking Students If you want to take coursework at Oklahoma State University but do not want to pursue a degree, you might be eligible to apply as a non-degree seeking student and take up through nine credit hours without meeting admissions requirements. If you are attempting to take a class at OSU and wish to be a non-degree seeking student, contact Undergraduate Admissions at 918-594-8020 or visit Undergraduate Admissions on the first floor of the Administration Building to determine if you are eligible. If you already have a Bachelor’s Degree and wish to take a class at OSU-Tulsa, contact Undergraduate Admissions at 918-594-8020 or visit Undergraduate Admissions on the first floor of the Administration Building to discuss application options before proceeding. To apply as a non-degree seeking student apply online and pay the $40 application fee. No transcripts are required to be a non-degree seeking student. See instructions under Transfer Students for detailed application and payment information. If a student currently taking courses at OSU as a non-degree student decides that they would like to pursue a bachelor's degree at OSU, the student will be required to: Meet transfer student admission requirements, Submit Transfer Student Admission Application Pay $40 application fee Provide official transcripts of every school attended to the Admission Office See instructions under Transfer Student Application Process for detailed application and payment information. Graduate Certificates, Master's and Doctoral Degrees View information on applying for graduate school at the OSU-Tulsa Graduate Student Services website. Hours and Location North Hall 130 Monday & Wednesday 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday & Friday 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Contact 918-594-8020 tulsa.admissions@okstate.edu Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000