Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Academics Academics Home Academic Calendar Bursar Class Schedule Information Enrollment Schedule Enrollment Services Final Exam Schedule Transcript Requests Tuition and Fees Location and Hours Student Union, North Hall (across from Subway) OSU-Tulsa Hours Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Contact Phone: 918-594-8320 Fax: 918-594-8317 Email: tulsa.bursar@okstate.edu Bursar Office Welcome to the Office of the Bursar at Oklahoma State University in Tulsa. "Bursar" is a term unique to higher education and means "keeper of the purse." The Bursar Office bills and collects tuition, fees and other university related charges. The Bursar Office also processes and disburses all federal and campus-based funds to students' bursar accounts and refunds any overpayments on students' bursar accounts. The OSU Bursar Office in Tulsa serves students at OSU-Tulsa and OSU Center for Health Sciences. Bursar Account View and Payment Links Authorized/Alternate access for OSU-Tulsa OSU-CHS Graduate OSU Stillwater Students Guest payment for OSU-Tulsa OSU-CHS Graduate OSU Stillwater Students Authorized/Alternate access for OSU-CHS Medical Students ONLY Guest payment for OSU-CHS Medical Students ONLY Important Links Tuition and Fees Refund and Direct Deposit Information Forms Tuition Estimator Staff Waiver Application Policies (PDF Download) Tuition and Fees Explained FAQ What form of payment does OSU accept online? The Bursar online payment system will accept Mastercard, Discover, American Express and web check. Do you offer an installment plan? Yes. You can divide your balance into five, four or three installments. Each installment will be due on the 15th of every month. The first payment depends on which plan you select. Learn more about the Payment Option Plan. Not available for Summer terms. How do I view my Bursar bill? Log in to the OSU Bursar website. On the Bursar website, each fee is individually listed. Historical billing information dating back to September 2001 is also available to print When is my Bursar bill due? Tuition and fee charges for the Fall Semester are due by Sept. 15. Electronic notices are sent to the student's OSU e-mail address the first week of September for the first billing statement of the Fall semester. Tuition and fee charges for the Spring Semester are due by Feb. 15. Electronic notices are sent to the student's OSU e-mail address the first week of February for the first billing statement of the Spring semester. Each subsequent month, electronic notices are sent for bursar billing statements that detail additional transactions on the bursar account. Balances should be paid by the 15th of each month. A finance charge of 1.5% will be assessed for past due charges. How will I receive any refund? Refund checks are mailed bi-weekly to the local address listed in myOKSTATE. To receive your funds faster, sign up for direct deposit. Direct deposit will transfer any overpayment of the Bursar account to your bank account within 48 hours. What is Direct Deposit? Direct Deposit is a banking term used to refer to the transfer of funds that are paid directly to your checking or savings account rather than issuing you a paper check. Log in to myOKSTATE, click eRefund under Payment Info, select eRefunds tab and then set up an account. (See more information on the OSU Office of the Bursar website.) Direct deposit will transfer any overpayment of the Bursar account to your bank account within 48 hours. What is a 1098-T and why do I need one? This form is intended to assist you or your parents in the preparation of your federal income tax return. The University sends them out to assist you in preparing your taxes and reports the information to the Internal Revenue Service. Your accountant, tax preparer or the Internal Revenue Service can best advise you in the utilization of this form when preparing your taxes. View this publication from the IRS for more information. How do I obtain my 1098-T? All 1098T forms are mailed to the billing address listed in SIS and are postmarked by January 31. You may also print a 1098T online from the OSU Bursar page. Log in to the page, click on 1098T information, and select the year you need. Can I charge books to my Bursar Account? In order to charge books to your account in Tulsa, you must have financial aid that will more than cover your tuition and fees. Any overage can be used to obtain a book voucher. See the Financial Aid office for details. How do I authorize others (parent) to view my Bursar bill online? Go to the OSU Bursar page login. Enter your O-Key login Click "Bursar Guest Login" Create a guest login and password to provide to your guest. Select the access you want for your guest by clicking "Manage Guest Login." Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000