Skip Navigation Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Calendar Directory Quicklinks About OSU-Tulsa About OSU-Tulsa Administration Administration OSU-Tulsa Leadership ASPIRE Framework Board of Regents Board of Trustees Budget and Finance Community Engagement Marketing and Communications Research University Police News and Information News and Information Newsroom Blog Calendar Campus Safety Inclement Weather Marketing and Communications STATE Magazine About OSU-Tulsa Resources Resources Cooperative Extension Alumni Association Give to OSU-Tulsa Career Services Academic Ledger Policies and Procedures Holiday Hours Visit OSU-Tulsa Visit OSU-Tulsa Black Settlers in Tulsa Exhibit Campus Map Ellis Walker Woods Memorial BOB Shuttle Conference Center City of Tulsa Downtown Tulsa Academics Academics Academic Information Academic Information Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps College Park Faculty List Graduate Student Information College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Centers Centers Center for Africana Studies Center for Family Resilience Center for Poets and Writers Center for Public Life Center for Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Counseling Center Helmerich Research Center New Product Development Center Veteran Success Center Resources Resources Catalog Enrollment Schedule Final Exam Schedule Class Schedule Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU-Tulsa Library Testing Center Tutoring Services Services Services Academic Advising International Students myOKSTATE Self-Service Registrar Student Accessibility Services IT Helpdesk Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Employment Employment Human Resources Benefits Information Job Search Professional Development Holiday Schedule Timekeeping Online Support Online Support Facilities Requests Orange Key (O-Key) Bursar myOKSTATE Self-Service IT Helpdesk E-mail Access Software Distribution Administrative Information Resources Systems (AIRS) Resources Resources Adjunct Faculty Resources Behavioral Consultation Team University Research Compliance Purchasing Travel Office of the Ombudsman Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Faculty List Faculty Support Services Staff Service Awards Services Services BOB Shuttle Campus Safety Counseling Center Event and Meeting Request Form Faculty Support Services Fitness Studio and Classes IT Helpdesk Marketing and Communications University Police University Store Wellness Center Student Life Student Life On Campus On Campus Campus Life Student Code of Conduct BOB Shuttle Wellness Center Veteran Success Center Clubs and Organizations Graduation Online Support Online Support myOKSTATE Self-Service O-Key Account E-mail Services Class Schedule Bursar Registrar Software Distribution IT Helpdesk H: Drive Information Services Services Graduate Student Services Minority Student Services University Police University Store Campus Safety Counseling Center Student Accessibility Services Career Services OSU-Tulsa Library Office of the Ombudsman Organizations Organizations Campus Life President's Leadership Society Student Clubs and Organizations Future Students Future Students First Steps First Steps Apply Visit Campus Request Information Future Student Contacts Majors and Programs Majors and Programs Degree and Certificate Programs Transfer Maps Reach Higher: DirectComplete College Park College of Professional Studies Film Industry Initiatives Resources Resources Future Students Transfer Student Information Graduate Student Information New Student Orientation Scholarships and Financial Aid Paying for College International Students Apply Now Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information University Store University Store Purchase Textbooks Purchase Cap and Gown Purchase Graduation Announcements Tax Exempt Veterans Textbook Buybacks and Rental Returns University Store It's easier than ever to get your textbooks for classes at OSU-Tulsa Just order online Find what you need and buy it online at the OSU University Store website at shopokstate.com. Your order will be delivered right to OSU-Tulsa free of charge in a matter of 1-2 days. Pick up your order on campus at the Information Center in the North Hall Lobby or pay to have them shipped directly to your home. Need help making your order? We have on-site assistance for textbook and supply orders. Why shopokstate.com? Buy books for all of your courses at OSU-Tulsa, Stillwater and online in one place. Log in and bring up your individual class schedule along with a list of required textbooks for each course for easy ordering. Charge up to $1,500 for textbooks and some other items to your Bursar account. Take advantage of competitive pricing and a larger selection. Get greater access to OSU goods and apparel. What about supplies I need right away? Visit the marketplace kiosk You can purchase notebooks, pens, Scantrons, Blue Books and other supplies through our self-serve marketplace in the North Hall Lobby. Or choose from a large selection of snacks and drinks to satisfy your hunger. The marketplace kiosk accepts credit and debit cards and is available whenever the building is open. Can I buy OSU apparel and T-shirts here? Take an up-close look As an added convenience, OSU-Tulsa's marketplace also has a wide variety of OSU T-shirts and apparel on display to help you make a purchasing decision. Once you decide on the design and feel you want, just scan the QR code and use it to order online at shopokstate.com. Every purchase benefits OSU and you The University Store works directly with OSU faculty members to ensure shopokstate.com has the books and materials that students need to be successful in class. And because OSU owns and operates the University Store, every shopokstate.com purchase directly benefits OSU students and services. Buy Now, Take Home Today OSU lanyards and select OSU t-shirts can be purchased on the spot at the Information Center, located in the North Hall Lobby. Only credit card payments will be accepted and tax is added to each purchase. For questions, contact Travis McBride at 918-594-8252 or by email at travis.mcbride@okstate.edu. Oklahoma State University-TULSA Campuses Campuses Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine University Links University Links OSU-Tulsa Police Library Research Wellness Diversity News & Information University Store IT Helpdesk Resources Resources Ethics Point Privacy Notice Public Safety Guide and Annual Crime Report Accessibility Trademarks Webmaster Campus Map © - Oklahoma State University-Tulsa | All Rights Reserved | 700 N. Greenwood Ave., Tulsa, OK, 74106 | 918-594-8000