Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Tutoring Resources at FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs and Contact Readiness Review Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Tutoring Resources at FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs and Contact Readiness Review Program Sidebar Academic Center for Excellence (ACE) Center for Academic Retention and Enhancement (CARE) FSU Libraries Learning District Reading-Writing Center (RWC) Tutoring Resources at FSU Services are organized by subject below. Just click the appropriate subject group to learn more about the tutoring and other academic support services available on campus. Can’t find what you need in the list below? Contact the programs directly by visiting the websites linked in the sidebar. Accounting, Business, and Finance ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: ACG2021 - Intro to Financial Accounting ACG2071 - Intro to Managerial Accounting ACG3171 - Analysis of Financial Statement Presentation CGS2518 - Spreadsheets for Business Environments ENT3451 - Accounting Essentials for Entrepreneurs FIN3244 - Financial Markets, Institutions, and International Finance Systems RMI2302 - Risk in Business and Society Get more information on ACE services here. Beta Alpha Psi: Accounting tutoring is offered through Beta Alpha Psi via Zoom to students currently registered in ACG2021 (Intro to Financial Accounting) and ACG2071 (Intro to Managerial Accounting). For links to the online sessions, please check your course Canvas site. No appointments or pre-registration is needed for these sessions. Hours: 7pm - 9pm Days: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: ACG2021 - Intro to Financial Accounting ACG2071 - Intro to Managerial Accounting ACG3331 - Cost Accounting and Analysis CGS2518 - Spreadsheets for Business FIN3403 - Financial Management of the Firm QMB3200 - Quantitative Methods for Business Decisions RMI2302 - Risk in Business and Society STA2023 - Fundamentals of Business Statistics Get more information on CARE services here. FSU Libraries Learning District: This program only offers tutoring for business calculus (MAC2233) Get more information on Learning District Math services here. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Business Math - (2 hours 14 minutes) While you may struggle to find practical applications for vector calculus, numbers are everywhere, and grasping certain fundamental mathematical concepts can help you better understand the world around you. In this course, accounting professors help you discover how to leverage the power of numbers to approach business problems and make everyday decisions. Biology ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: BCH4053 - General Biochemistry I BSC1005 - Biology for the Non-major BSC2010 - Biological Science I BSC2011 - Biological Science II BSC2085 - Anatomy and Physiology I BSC3016 - Eukaryotic Diversity PCB3063 - General Genetics PCB3134 - Cell Structure and Function PSB2000 - Intro to Brain and Behavior Get more information on ACE services here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: BSC1005 - General Biology for non-Majors BSC1005L - General Biology for non-Majors BSC2010 - Biological Science I for Science Majors BSC2011 - Biological Science II for Science Majors PSB2000 - Intro to Brain and Behavior Get more information on CARE services here. Department of Biology: Biology Teaching Assistants are available to assist students enrolled in BSC 1005. The Center is located in Milton Carothers Hall (MCH), room 425. Hours change each semester. The Biology Major Study Center in the King Building (KIN1054) is staffed by undergraduate tutors for BSC 2010 and BSC 2011. Free tutoring is provided for any student enrolled in either of these two courses, and hours for the service change each semester. Chemistry ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: BCH4053 - General Biochemistry I CHM1020 - Chemistry for Liberal Studies CHM1045 - General Chemistry I CHM1046 - General Chemistry II CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II CHM4410 - Physical Chemistry I CHM4411 - Physical Chemistry II Get more information on ACE services here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: CHM1045 - General Chemistry I CHM1045L - General Chemistry I CHM1046 - General Chemistry II CHM1046L - General Chemistry II Get more information on CARE services here. FSU Libraries Learning District: This program offers tutoring for all of the following courses: CHM1020 - Chemistry for Liberal Studies CHM1032 - Survey of General Chemistry CHM1045 - General Chemistry I CHM1046 - General Chemistry II CHM2200 - Survey of Organic Chemistry CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II CHM3217 - One-Semester Organic Chemistry Get more information on Learning District Chemistry services here. Computers and Programming ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: CGS3406 - Object Oriented Programming with C++ COP2258 - Problem Solving with Object Oriented Programming COP3014 - Programming I: Intro to C++ COP3330 - Data Structures, Algorithms and Generic Programming I COP3353 - Intro to Unix COP3363 - Introduction to Programming in C++ for Majors Get more information on ACE services here. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. This service is incredibly business and technology focused, and there are countless courses on various programs, systems, networks, and concepts. Once you log in to the service through your FSU account, you can search by program name or keyword for the most relevant courses to your needs. Economics ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: Get more information on ACE services here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: ECO2023 - Principles of Microeconomics Get more information on CARE services here. Department of Economics: The Economics Help Desk, located in Bellamy 205, offers free walk-in tutoring in the following courses: ECO2000 - Introduction to Economic Thinking ECO2013 - Principles of Macroeconomics ECO2023 - Principles of Microeconomics LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Although this service is mostly focused on business and technology, there are countless courses on other subjects and concepts. Once you log in to the service through your FSU account, you can search by keyword for the most relevant courses to your needs. Engineering Mechanical Engineering Help Center: The "Help M.E. Center" provides graduate and undergraduate teaching assistants to help students in calculus, physics, required mechanical engineering courses, and most elective courses: Location: Room A230, College of Engineering Hours vary by course Get more information on Help M.E. services here. Foreign Languages ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: FRE1120 - Elementary French I FRE1121 - Elementary French II JPN1120 - Elementary Japanese I JPN1121 - Elementary Japanese II SPN1120 - Elementary Spanish I SPN1121 - Elementary Spanish II SPN2220 - Intermediate Spanish SPN3300 - Spanish Grammar and Composition SPN3400 - Spanish Reading and Conversation Get more information on ACE services here. FSU Libraries Learning District/Department of Modern Languages: During most semesters, the Department of Modern Languages offers tutoring in multiple languages within Strozier Library. Specific languages, dates, and times will be listed on the webpage below as they are finalized each semester. Get more information on Modern Languages tutoring here. Mathematics and Statistics ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: MAC1105 - College Algebra MAC1114 - Analytic Trigonometry MAC1140 - Precalculus Algebra MAC2233 - Business Calculus MAC2311 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry I MAC2312 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry II MAC2313 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry III MAP2302 - Ordinary Differential Equations MGF3301 - Introduction to Advanced Mathematics STA2023 - Fundamentals of Business Statistics Get more information on ACE services here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: MAC1105 - College Algebra MAC1114 - Analytic Trigonometry MAC1140 - Precalculus Algebra MAC2233 - Business Calculus MAC2311 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry I MAC2312 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry II MAC2313 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry III MAP2302 - Ordinary Differential Equations MAS3105 - Applied Linear Algebra MAT1033 - Intermediate Algebra MGF1106 - Math for Liberal Arts I MGF1107 - Math for Liberal Arts II STA1013 - Statistics Through Example STA2122 - Introduction to Applied Statistics STA2023 - Fundamentals of Business Statistics Get more information on CARE services here. Department of Mathematics: All 1000-Level Courses plus MAC2233 student have support available from Graduate Teaching Assistants (TAs) and many of the courses also have addition support provided by Undergraduate Learning Assistants (LAs). Faculty and TAs have office hours or help sessions that student may attend to receive help on course work. The hours and locations of the office hours and help sessions vary by course. Login to the course Canvas site and review your course specific resources. MAC2311, Calculus I, students receive support through their instructor office hours and, in some sections, from Undergraduate Learning Assistants. The Learning Assistants for MAC2311 hold cooperative office hours for all sections of calculus via zoom to provide more opportunities for each student to receive help. Login to the course Canvas site and review your course specific resources. Department of Statistics: There are multiple options, both inside and outside of the University, for statistics tutoring. Listed below are graduate students who have notified us of their interest in tutoring others. Please note that they will likely charge a fee for their services. Contact them for more information. Get more information on the statistics department’s tutoring services here. FSU Libraries Learning District: This program offers tutoring for all of the following courses: MAC1105 - College Algebra MAC1114 - Analytic Trigonometry MAC1140 - Precalculus Algebra MAC2233 - Business Calculus MAC2311 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry I MAC2312 - Calculus w Analytic Geometry II MGF1106 - Math for Liberal Arts I MGF1107 - Math for Liberal Arts II Get more information on Learning District Math services here. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Learning Everyday Math - (2 hours 6 minutes) This course explains essential math concepts in clear language, using real-world problems that will help learners of all levels feel more confident with math. Learn how to calculate percentages for tips and taxes, compare prices as you shop, find the area and volume for home-improvement projects, and even calculate calories. Learning Algebra: Pre-Algebra - (2 hours 39 minutes) Pre-algebra is the first step in high school math, forming the building blocks that lead to geometry, trigonometry, and calculus. This course will help you master the basics: from addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division to new types of numbers (integers and negative numbers) and concepts such as the order of operations and distribution. Learning Algebra: Solving Equations - (4 hours 40 minutes) This course covers the foundational concepts in algebra that students need to solve equations. It starts with one-step addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division equations, then progresses to multistep equations and equations featuring fractions and decimals. Business Math - (2 hours 14 minutes) While you may struggle to find practical applications for vector calculus, numbers are everywhere, and grasping certain fundamental mathematical concepts can help you better understand the world around you. In this course, accounting professors help you discover how to leverage the power of numbers to approach businesses problems and make everyday decisions. Everyday Statistics - (3 hours 54 minutes) Statistics help us make sense of the world around us. These numbers help everyone from political pollsters to fantasy football aficionados make informed calls based on the mountains of data at their disposal. In this weekly series, learn how to decode the statistics that pop up on a daily basis. (Please note: this is an ongoing course) Statistics Foundations 1 - (2 hours 6 minutes) Statistics is not just the realm of data scientists. All types of jobs use statistics. Statistics are important for making decisions, new discoveries, investments, and predictions. Whether the subject is political races, sports rankings, shopping trends, or healthcare advancements, statistics is an instrument for understanding your favorite topic at a deeper level. Statistics Foundations 2 - (1 hour 56 minutes) Statistics are a core skill for many careers. Basic stats are critical for making decisions, new discoveries, investments, and even predictions. But sometimes you need to move beyond the basics. Statistics Fundamentals – Part 2 takes business users and data science mavens into practical, example-based learning of the intermediate skills associated with statistics: samples and sampling, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing. Statistics Foundations 3 - (1 hour 41 minutes) Statistics are everywhere, in every industry, but they're a must for anyone working in data science, business, or business analytics. If you're in one of these specialized fields, chances are you need an advanced understanding of statistics. This advanced skills training moves learners into the practical study and application of experimental design, analysis of variance, population comparison, and regression analysis. Other Subjects ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: AMH2010 - The History of the United States to 1877 AMH2020 - A History of the United States Since 1877 CLP4143 - Abnormal Psychology CLT2049 - Medical Terminology DEP3103 - Child Psychology ECO2013 - Principles of Macroeconomics ECO2023 - Principles of Microeconomics ECO3203 - Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory ECO3223 - Financial Markets, the Banking System, and Monetary Policy EGM3512 - Engineering Mechanics ENC1101 - Freshman Composition and Rhetoric ENC2135 - Research, Genre, and Context HUN1201 - The Science of Nutrition NUR3125 - Pathophysiological Concepts in Nursing POS1041 - American National Government PSY2012 - General Psychology SOP3004 - Social Psychology SYG2010 - Social Problems Get more information on ACE services here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: AFA4358 - Culture, Land, and Ecology: A Seminar in Black Environmental History and Politics AMH2010 - The History of the United States to 1877 AMH2020 - A History of the United States Since 1877 AMH2097 - Nationality, Race, and Ethnicity in the United States AMH4420 - The History of Florida AML2600 - Intro to African-American Literature APK3110C - Applied Exercise Physiology ATR2020 - First Aid ATR3102 - Athletic Training I ATR3132 - Kinesiology CCJ3011 - Criminology CCS3011 - Criminology CCS3651 - Drugs and Crime CGS2060 - Computer Fluency CHD2220 - Child Growth and Development: The Foundation Years CHD3243 - Contexts of Adolescent Development CLP3305 - Clinical and Counseling Psychology CLP4134 - Abnormal Child Psychology CLP4143 - Abnormal Psychology DEP3103 - Child Psychology EVR1001 - Introduction to Environmental Science IDS3168 - Walt Disney's World PHI2010 - Intro to Philosophy PST2012 - General Psychology PSY2012 - General Psychology REL1300 - Introduction to World Religions SOP3004 - Social Psychology SYG1000 - Introduction to Sociology Get more information on CARE services here. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Although this service is mostly focused on business and technology, there are countless courses on other subjects and concepts. Once you log in to the service through your FSU account, you can search by keyword for the most relevant courses to your needs. Physics ACE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: PHY2048 - General Physics A PHY2049 - General Physics B PHY2053 - College Physics A PHY2054 - College Physics B Get more information on ACE services here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: PHY2048 - General Physics A PHY2049 - General Physics B Get more information on CARE services here. FSU Libraries Learning District: This program offers tutoring for all of the following courses: PHY2048 - General Physics A PHY2049 - General Physics B PHY2053 - College Physics A PHY2054 - College Physics B PHY1020 - Physics and Technology for Future Presidents Get more information on Learning District Physics services here. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Although this service is mostly focused on business and technology, there are countless courses on other subjects and concepts. Once you log in to the service through your FSU account, you can search by keyword for the most relevant courses to your needs. Professional and Graduate Exams ACE: This program offers tutoring and support in the following ways: Graduate School Preparation - ACE and several other campus offices provide a variety of resources to help you plan and prepare for that important step, including free workshops and materials about the decision to attend graduate school, the application process, financial aid, and study tools and tips for admission/entrance exam preparation. Offered through FSU Libraries: Peterson's Testing & Education Resource Center - This is a powerful tool for standardized test preparation (including basic core concept reviews), researching and selecting college and graduate schools, finding tuition assistance, and exploring career paths. This is a free service for the current FSU community, and it will ask you to log in with your FSU credentials. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Test Prep: GRE - (6 hours 44 minutes) The GRE is the most common graduate school entry exam and is also accepted by many business schools. In this course, full-time GRE tutor Vince Kotchian guides you through a complete preparation plan for the exam. He extensively covers the three major components of the GRE: analytical writing, verbal reasoning, and quantitative reasoning. He also outlines the structure of the exam, explains how to study effectively, and provides test-taking strategies. Preparing for the GMAT - (6 hours 17 minutes) Prepare to take the GMAT business school entrance exam. In this course, Vince Kotchian offers an in-depth exploration of the GMAT to give you the most effective tools to maximize your score. Vince reviews all GMAT question types, offers detailed strategies, and provides tips for studying and taking the test. Learn how the exam is structured and scored and try sample questions from each of the GMAT's four sections: Quantitative, Verbal, Integrated Reasoning, and Writing. Center for professional Development: Test Preparation Courses - (Note: These courses are not free, but FSU alums receive a 10% discount) Our test preparation courses were designed by a team of former standardized test item writers and test preparation experts. Our experienced and professional instructors are highly trained and care about your success. Study Skills and Support ACE: Personal Academic Consultations - ACE offers undergraduate students an opportunity to meet one-on-one with an ACE instructor to review and make improvements to their study and personal success habits. These consultations, which are free and available only to current FSU students, involve assessing a student's need and developing a plan of action for reaching the student's academic goals. Study Tools and Tips - To academically excel in college, you must evaluate your assumptions regarding your study strategies and habits. Review the resources on this page on ACE's website to learn how you can establish the college-level study strategies and habits needed to be successful. Learning & Test Preparation - The learning process begins with your first week of classes and discovering your most effective and efficient study strategies for each class. Use the academic resources on this ACE page to identify appropriate study strategies and to develop a study plan that will help you ace your exam! Note Taking - One of the first steps to academic excellence is making good notes and reviewing them regularly to maximize your learning. You must take the time to learn key components of strong academic notes and establish your own effective note making style. Listed on this page from ACE are a few resources to help you get started. Subject Specific Graphic Organizers - Graphic organizers involve the intentional manipulation of information by the learner through processes such as repetition, elaboration, and reorganization of the material in such a way that the new information is able to be stored in the learner’s memory and accessed for retrieval. Time Management - Managing time effectively is an essential skill for academic success. See the time management tools listed on this page from ACE to take control of your time and maximize every minute. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Learning Study Skills - (1 hour 36 minutes) Whether you want to ace your next test or simply retain information better (at work or at home), good study habits are essential. This course offers tips for improving your reading speed and comprehension, creating detailed notes, committing the learning to memory, and even taking tests. Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World - (9 minutes) For many modern professionals, remaining electronically connected at nearly all times is the norm. And dealing with these constant distractions—from email, social media, apps, and so on—can wreak havoc on our ability to focus. This offers a brief review of strategies for regaining your ability to focus on a task without distraction. Developing a Learning Mindset - (31 minutes) Find your motivation to learn, explore how the brain acquires and retains information, and discover how to conduct a self-inventory that reveals what you've learned and how you learn best. Why Generalists Succeed and How to Learn Like One - (17 minutes) Generalists—jacks of all trades—get a bad rap. However, they possess a unique intersection of skills that can create new playing fields without competition from established masters. Being a generalist can also help you create innovative solutions and see problems from a clearer perspective. Building a Better To-Do List - (50 minutes) The key to enhancing your productivity is to build to-do lists that actually work. In this course, learn a new approach to creating to-do lists, find out how to better prioritize tasks, and discover proven day-to-day workflows to put into practice immediately. Learning Speed Reading - (58 minutes) Learn how to improve your reading speed and comprehension. Speed-reading is a skill everyone can benefit from, and this course provides proven techniques to improve how much information you absorb and how fast you absorb it. Finding Your Time Management Style - (1 hour 14 minutes) When it comes to time management strategies, one size does not fit all. To create your optimal workday, you must consider many factors, including the nature of your job, the level of interaction you have with others, and your personal preferences. Time Management Fundamentals - (2 hours 53 minutes) Learn how to get more done in the shortest time possible and avoid the obstacles and distractions that can get in the way of good time management. This course offers practical strategies for increasing productivity in three main areas: developing habits to be more organized and reducing clutter in your workspace; staying mentally on task and eliminate the to-dos you have floating in your head; and developing a time budget to get the most done during your workday and focus on your most valuable activities. Writing RWC: The Writing Center offers individualized writing support for all FSU students. Returning fall 2021, undergraduates and graduates can schedule 45-minute appointments in three locations: the Williams Building (Room 222), the William Johnston Building (Ground Floor platform) and the Strozier Library (First Floor tutoring area). We also provide remote consultations via Zoom. To make an appointment, visit fsu.mywconline.com. Reading-Writing Center (RWC) consultants act as a practice audience for students’ ideas and writing, helping them develop their writing in many areas. Our mission is to talk to you and above all — listen. Whether the session is synchronous or asynchronous, the RWC is committed to providing students a productive and empathetic session that works to express your ideas and yourself in your schoolwork and beyond. Learn more about the RWC here. ACE: ACE offers workshops to help students begin their writing assignments. Get more information on ACE workshops here. CARE: This program offers tutoring and support for the following courses: ENC1101 - Freshman Composition and Rhetoric ENC1235 - Research, Genre, and Context Get more information on CARE services here. FSU Libraries: Research Help and Services - This page of the library site compiles links to the most useful services and programs available through the FSU Libraries and other campus departments. Research Guides - These librarian-created and curated resources are a perfect starting point when researching for a paper no matter what subject area you're working within. Citation Guide - In this guide created by the library you will find resources for MLA, APA and Chicago styles of citation. In addition, library guides and tutorials for various citation management programs such as RefWorks, Zotero, Mendeley, and EndNote Basic are available in this guide. Visit the main library services page here. LinkedIn Learning: All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow the quick instructions in the graphic at the bottom of the page to activate your account. Writing & Editing College Prep: Writing a Strong Essay - (1 hour 56 minutes) In this course, writing instructor Leigh Ann Chow covers planning, drafting, editing, and polishing an unforgettable college essay. These lessons will not only help improve your chances of getting into a top-choice school, but also make you a better writer once you get there. Writing a Research Paper - (1 hour 56 minutes) Have to write a research paper? Learn tips for writing an A+ paper that will wow your professors. In this course, learn how to prepare for, and write, polished research papers by discovering how to brainstorm, select your best ideas, collect and categorize research, and write the paper, while following along with practical, real-world examples. Editing Mastery: How to Edit Writing to Perfection - (4 hours 41 minutes) Most editors can capably fix the spelling, grammar, punctuation, and typos in a piece of writing. It takes a different skill set to turn dry, disorganized prose into writing that is beautifully organized and bursting with life and energy. In this course, learn a powerful technique—deep editing—that can help you transform nearly any piece of nonfiction writing into magnificent, sparkling prose. Editing and Proofreading Made Simple - (39 minutes) Most professionals can't afford full-time proofreaders. With some simple tips and extra attention to detail, you can edit your own writing and make sure it's as polished as possible before you hit send. Ninja Writing: The Four Levels of Writing Mastery - In this course, instructor Shani Raja—a former editor for the Wall Street Journal—shares tactics that can help to take you to the summit of flawless writing. Here, Shani explains how to tap into the power of the four levels—narrative, paragraphs, sentences, and words—to sharpen your writing so that it stands out from your peers. Writing in Plain English - (1 hour 51 minutes) Plain English is writing that is clear and straightforward, targeted at the appropriate reading level, and free of jargon, wordiness, and clichés. In this course, learn the characteristics of plain English and the importance of learning to write clearly, and introduces some online tools you can use to analyze your own writing. Writing with Impact - (1 hour 1 minute) There's no such thing as generic "good" writing. Writing quality—and impact—comes from how well it fits its purpose. This course shows how to give all your writing more impact, regardless of its purpose. Writing with Flair: How to Become an Exceptional Writer - (5 hours 8 minutes) Join Shani Raja—a former editor for the Wall Street Journal—as he shares practical techniques for making your writing sparkle. Shani dives into the mindset of an elite writer, spelling out the key principles that help great wordsmiths keep their writing purposeful, concise, and pleasurable to read. Grammar & Style Grammar Girl's Quick and Dirty Tips for Better Writing - (41 minutes) With easy-to-understand examples, Grammar Girl Mignon Fogarty shares ways you can instantly make your writing better, including using active voice, writing with rhythm, and using commas like a pro. She also dispels a few common grammar myths, gives pointers for breaking up run-on sentences, and much more. Grammar Foundations - (2 hours 11 minutes) Proper grammar improves the clarity of your writing and increases readers' confidence in your ideas. This course will help you apply the basic principles so you can avoid making the most common mistakes. Learn about the different parts of speech, possessive rules, the difference between writing vs. spelling numbers, and more. Advanced Grammar - (2 hours 8 minutes) Losing confidence in an idea—even a spectacular one—is easy if it's communicated in an email or letter riddled with grammatical errors. In this course, you review basic grammar rules and then focuses on more advanced grammar principles such as using correct words, locating incorrect grammar in sentences and paragraphs, and reviewing parts of speech, punctuation, and proper sentence structure. Other Writing Advice Writing Under a Deadline - (33 minutes) Writing is a creative process—but when you add a ticking clock to that process, it can send the muses into panic mode. With just a little guidance from a pro, you can learn to face project deadlines with cool confidence. Learning Typing - (47 minutes) Stop the time-consuming hunting and pecking at the keyboard and learn how to type properly. In this course, you'll discover the advantages of knowing how to type, find out where your fingers should be positioned and which finger to use on each key, practice your positioning, and learn how to type for speed and accuracy. Writing Email - (1 hour 13 minutes) Discover the secrets to writing powerful emails your colleagues will read and answer by crafting your message and delivery. In this course, you will learn how to write emails for maximum readability and impact. Discover how to craft a compelling opening, how to message the right people at the right time, and how to leverage etiquette to use email as one of many communications tools. Writing Speeches - (1 hour 53 minutes) Need to give a speech and don't know where to begin? A well-written and organized speech greatly reduces the anxiety around delivery, and can help win over audiences in a way the written word just can't match. Writing Articles - (29 minutes) Articles are an effective tool for communicating complex ideas and stories in a friendly, credible, and easy-to-follow way. In this course, you can learn how to write and publish an article of your own. Writing a Compelling Blog Post - (44 minutes) Publishing your thoughts and ideas is easier than ever. The internet has given everyone a platform. But without engaging content and precise writing, you might not attract an audience. Discover content, structure, and style strategies that will make your blog posts irresistible and keep readers coming back for more. Technical Writing: Reports - (2 hours 30 minutes) Technical reports are the cornerstone of research projects and stand-alone routine investigations. Writing reports correctly is important. Whether you are a researcher responsible for your own reports or a technical writer interpreting the work of others, this course will help you generate clear, concise, and complete technical reports. Business Writing Principles - (1 hour 32 minutes) Discover the secrets to effective business writing and crafting messages that others want to read and act on. Judy Steiner-Williams, senior lecturer at Kelley School of Business, introduces you to the 10 Cs of strong business communication and provides you with before-and-after writing samples that give you the opportunity to apply each principle and sharpen your communication skills. Additional educational resources and tools are available through the Office of Accessibility Services for any student registered with their program. Many of the links above direct you to LinkedIn's library of learning tools. All current FSU students, faculty, and staff have free access to this resource, but if you have never used it before, you need to follow these quick instructions to activate your account: Instructions for activating your LinkedIn Learning account through FSU: Sign in to my.fsu.edu. Click the Resources dropdown menu in the top-left box and choose LinkedIn Learning Online Training from the options. Choose to either connect LinkedIn Learning to your personal LinkedIn account or continue without connecting. title-inside title-centered 2 Select languageSelect LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliNorwegianPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliSwedishTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media