Skip to content Tutoring & Academic Support Office of Undergraduate Education Main Menu About Vision & Mission About TAS Meet Our Team Faculty and Staff Resources Join Our Team Location & Hours Contact 1-to-1 Tutoring Drop-In Tutoring PLUS Learning Assistant Tutoring APPT Join Our Team Success Resources Search Search for: Search Home Institute Operations Updates Need help? We're here to make a difference. Tutoring & Academic Support (TAS) provides academic support to help you achieve your goals at Tech. Explore the programs below to find the support you need. If you have any questions, drop us a line at tutoring@gatech.edu. We also welcome your feedback on your experience with TAS here. We look forward to seeing you soon! ; p TAS is hiring! Academic Coordinator II The Office of Undergraduate Education invites applications for a Supplemental Instruction Coordinator in the Tutoring and Academic Support unit at the Georgia Tech-Atlanta campus. This position will manage the day-to-day operations for supplemental instruction (known at Georgia Tech as PLUS, Peer-Led Undergraduate Study) program. Learn more about the position here!  1-to-1 Tutoring 1-to-1 Tutoring is a free, appointment-based tutoring program offered to all Georgia Tech undergraduate students.  PLUS PLUS sessions are group study sessions that facilitate learning in a relaxed, collaborative environment.  Drop-In Tutoring Drop-In Tutoring is offered for immediate help from course TAs and our tutors – no appointment necessary!  Learning Assistant Program Learning Assistants facilitate student learning and small group discussion inside the classroom. 2022 TAS Award Winners We are proud to highlight some of our amazing student employees! It is time to nominate your favorite tutor, PLUS leader, learning assistant, or student assistant for our 2022 staff awards! Read more about our awards and submit your nomination here. How can we help you? If you’re having trouble finding exactly what you need, please reach out so we can direct you to the right program or person! Name Email Address Your question/request/concern? 12 + 10 = Submit For Faculty & Advisors Have an exceptional student that you’d like to nominate as a tutor for your course? Have a student in need of academic support? Want to know how TAS can support your course? Find out how we can help! Contact Us Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Contact TAS Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology