Skip to main content Collapsed menu Find a Program Apply Resources Donate Search Full Menu Menu Utility menu Search FAQs Careers Application COVID-19 Updates Contact Us Main navigation Find a Program All Programs Academic Internship Program Funded Federal Diversity Internships Seminars Programs for Non-US Students Parents Resources View Resources Partners Partners Overview Colleges & Universities Corporations & Foundations US State Governments Federal Agencies International Partners Intern Hosts Intern Hosts Overview Host an Intern Host Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Programs for Alumni Get Involved About About Us History Leadership News Support TWC Homepage Updates and Guidance: COVID-19 The health and safety of The Washington Center community is our top priority at this time. The Washington Center is closely monitoring the current situation and is responding appropriately. Please review updates and information about our programs. Learn More Turn the decision to explore your future into the best experience of your life The TWC experience goes beyond internships to give you the professional development, connections and guidance you'll need to pursue a fulfilling career. Watch to learn more Find the program that fits your needs. Come for a semester or a summer. Or attend one of our one- or two-week seminars. Do real work in government, a non-profit or the private sector. Whether you're a college student or recent graduate we have programs to help you gain critical experience and insider knowledge that will get you where you want to go. Find a program What will you experience? Select a student story below The Washington Center January 12, 2022 A Voice for the Voiceless Machhadie Assi was not your typical Washington Center student in 2016. She could be described as a non-traditional student, an... Read this story View all stories The Washington Center January 28, 2022 D.C. Experience Leads to Limitless Opportunities Emerson College student Caelynn Marie Timbreza spent a semester in Washington, D.C. interning at The Appellate Project, a nonprofit that... Read this story View all stories The Washington Center October 13, 2021 The Washington Center Announces Funded Federal Diversity Internships in Public Health U.S. Dept of Health and Human Services seeks interns from underrepresented populations. WASHINGTON D.C —The Washington Center for Internships and... Read this story View all stories The Washington Center July 27, 2021 What Should I Wear? The Ultimate Guide to Workplace Dress Codes Dressing for work can be tricky, whether you’re in the office or working remotely. Use this guide to get familiar... Read this story View all stories The Washington Center July 26, 2021 The Washington Center Announces Kimberly Churches as New President Churches Becomes TWC’s First Female Chief Executive Officer in its 46-year History Read this story View all stories The Washington Center April 22, 2021 4 Tips for Virtual Networking Virtual networking is here to stay. Here are four tips to help you prepare to network over Zoom or the... Read this story View all stories Our partners make the experience possible. Hundreds of universities, government agencies, public and private organizations of all types and sizes, in the U.S. and abroad partner with TWC. They know we deliver excellent educational experiences. We know we couldn't do it without them. Explore how working with TWC can help your organization. Audience My organization is a ... College or University Corporation or Foundation U.S. State Government Federal Agency Foreign Government Find out more What's going on at TWC? Stay connected with us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Flickr Instagram YouTube Why You Should Do an Internship During Your Senior Year May 26, 2022 View all news permalink This #MemorialDay, and every day, we honor the sacrifice and commitment of our service members. t.co/p21043W05A May 27 For First-Generation College Students, Internships and Networking are Vital May 24, 2022 View all news permalink Thank you .@mkraju for speaking to our #InsideWashington students last night at the #Verizon Policy Center. #CNN… t.co/0ucbjL7gDi May 27 Announcements TWC Mourns the Passing of Former Board Member and Supporter Norman Y. Mineta May 5, 2022 View all news permalink Elena @cmuniversity was appointed to the Executive Board of the Michigan Democrat Party in 2019 as the Youth Vice-C… t.co/At4QXXVjxT May 26 Featured Partners: AT&T logo Centene Charitable Corporation Logo Ford logo Motorola Solutions Foundation Logo Prudential logo Verizon logo Footer menu Privacy Policy Careers Staff Login Live Chat Leave Message