Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Health Sciences Educating. Discovering. Healing. At the University of Minnesota on the Twin Cities campus, we are treating patients, educating the next generation of care providers, and making discoveries that improve health care in Minnesota and around the world. 70% of Minnesota’s health professionals are trained at the U of M 7,000+ students enrolled in 60+ degree programs 1 million+ Patients treated per year On this page: Skip to section: Education Patient Care Research Health Sciences News 70% of Minnesota’s health professionals are trained at the U of M 7,000+ students enrolled in 60+ degree programs 1 million+ Patients treated per year Education We are educating and inspiring the next generation of health care professionals. Our graduates go on to better their communities, heal patients, and develop life-changing treatments and cures. Spanning all specialties of health care, from veterinary medicine to dentistry, nursing, and surgery, students gather knowledge in the classroom and receive invaluable, real-world experience. This is education that changes the practice of health care. Degrees and Programs “With my exposure to health inequities in Alabama I came to realize I really wanted to help with a person’s whole health rather than just cope with problems after they’re already sick.” Delaine Anderson, MPH Student Maternal & Child Health Read Delaine’s story Patient Care Innovations in patient care happen here, where groundbreaking work by physicians, dentists, nurses, pharmacists, and veterinarians constantly redefines health care. Our clinical providers deliver care based on current research and cutting-edge technologies. Receive the Care You Need Whether you need primary or specialty health care services, quality dental care, or medical care for a pet, the University provides a full range of health care services for adults, children, and animals. Hospitals and Clinics “I very much want to be able to provide a space where no matter what a patient’s identities or backgrounds are, they are able to be their whole self so I can provide the care they need.” Mitchell Moe Medical Student Read Mitchell's story Research The University of Minnesota is home to field-shaping researchers who improve health and save lives. From breakthrough to development, concept to clinical trial, we have the expertise to tackle complex health problems that cannot be solved from one perspective alone. With our legacy of innovation, we are driven to meet the diverse health needs of Minnesota and beyond. 33rd RANKING IN NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH FUNDING $200+ Million ANNUALLY IN SPONSORED HEALTH RESEARCH Research Health Sciences News Talking with U of M Talking children’s summer activities with U of M Associate professor Daheia Barr-Anderson discusses the importance of keeping children physically active in the summer. News Release Interim Title Dropped as Aaron Schilz, MPA, Named Masonic Cancer Center’s Executive Director Aaron Schilz has been appointed as the Executive Director for the Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota. News Release School of Dentistry research hub joins interprofessional center for pharmaceutical research The U of M’s Minnesota Dental Research Center for Biomaterials and Biomechanics (MDRCBB) has joined a national, collaborative research center focused on improving the development process for pharmaceutical products. Read More News UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback