Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Privacy Statement Privacy Statement Websites The University of Minnesota respects the privacy of website visitors to the extent permitted by law. The online privacy statement is intended to inform you of what information is collected by this website and how the information is used. This is the standard University of Minnesota Online Privacy Statement. Please note that other University of Minnesota websites may adopt different privacy practices as their specific needs require. Your use of websites is subject to the privacy statement of the providers of those websites. We encourage you to be aware when you leave this website and to read the privacy statement on each website you visit. Often you can tell you are leaving a University website by looking at the URL of the destination site. If you have questions about this site’s collection of information or its online privacy statement, contact the site administrator. Non-Personally Identifiable Information For security purposes and to ensure that the website remains available to all visitors, the University uses software to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. The University collects non-personal information about your Internet connection on this website, including but not limited to: the Internet Protocol (IP) and the name of the Internet domain you used to access the Internet the IP address or URL of the website from which you directly linked to this website the date and time you accessed this website the pages visited on this website the browser and operating system you used to access this website the search terms used on our search engines The University uses this non-personal information to help manage the website and improve service. Some University websites use Google Analytics to gather statistics about web traffic. For more information, read Google Analytics' privacy policy. Personally Identifiable Information Our data gathering and dissemination are governed by state and federal laws, including the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 13. Personally identifiable information is not released to external parties without your consent unless required by law. This website does not collect any personally identifiable information. Notification Cookies or tracking pixels are used for various purposes within websites to gather information and facilitate navigation. The twin-cities.umn.edu site uses cookies or tracking pixels for re-marketing. Effective: November 2017 UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback