Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities News and Events Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar News Section Menu Topics Story Archive For Journalists Events Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Topics Agriculture & Environment Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business & Management Campus Affairs COVID-19 Education Health Law & Policy Science & Technology Social Sciences Sports & Recreation Story Archive For Journalists Events COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Breadcrumb Home News & Events COVID-19: Stories, Insights, Expertise COVID-19: Stories, Insights, Expertise Whether you're a community member, one of our alumni, or a University of Minnesota student, here you’ll find stories, insights, and expertise to support you during the COVID-19 crisis. On this page: Skip to section: News Podcasts In the News Experts Donate #UMNproud Resources COVID-19: Stories, Insights, Expertise Whether you're a community member, one of our alumni, or a University of Minnesota student, here you’ll find stories, insights, and expertise to support you during the COVID-19 crisis. News Research Brief Study discovers molecular properties of lung surfactants that could lead to better treatments for respiratory illnesses A University of Minnesota-led research team analyzed the fundamental properties and structures of the naturally occurring substances that help human lungs expand and contract, providing insight into how the substances help us breathe. Research Brief How omicron infects cells while evading immunity Researchers at the U of M identified the structural mechanism that may explain why omicron is so effective in infecting people, both vaccinated and unvaccinated, and suggested ways to curb its spread. Talking with U of M Talking pediatric obesity during the pandemic with the U of M Dr. Aaron Kelly discusses the effect of the pandemic on childhood obesity rates. Research Brief University of Minnesota study tests wildlife for SARS-CoV-2 virus As part of a pilot surveillance project to detect SARS-CoV-2 spread between people and animals, nearly 600 of Minnesota’s wild animals were tested for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 in 2021. Talking with U of M Talking critically-needed blood donations with the U of M University of Minnesota Medical School expert Claudia Cohn talks blood donation during the COVID-19 pandemic. Expert Alert COVID drug treatments University of Minnesota Medical School expert David Boulware speaks about the relevance and impact of drug treatment for COVID-19 All COVID-19 News COVID-19 Podcasts Feature Health in All Matters Listen to episodes from the School of Public Health's weekly podcast series "COVID-19: When a pandemic sweeps the modern world." Feature CIDRAP COVID-19 Podcast From "How We Got Here" to "Smart Testing," listen to all of the timely podcasts from the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy. In the News Feature Osterholm provides overview on COVID-19 Internationally recognized infectious disease expert Michael Osterholm appears on the Joe Rogan Experience podcast and provides and overview of the looming COVID-19 pandemic. Feature University of Minnesota tackles COVID-19 pandemic At the University of Minnesota, brilliant innovators are coming together in more than a dozen projects to help treat and slow the spread of COVID-19. May 25, 2022 Coping with prolonged grief in the wake of George Floyd and the pandemic MPR May 20, 2022 University of Minnesota Crookston students mark 40-year tree planting tradition in Chippewa National Forest Duluth News Tribune May 19, 2022 Updates on new COVID variants and the vaccine with Dr. Michael Osterholm MPR Experts U of M experts offer insights, expertise, and support during the COVID-19 pandemic. Here are just some of the faculty and staff involved in these efforts. Search Paul Olin Interim Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs Logan Spector Professor, Department of Pediatrics Tim Beebe Mayo Professor and Division Head, Division of Health Policy and Management See All COVID-19 Experts Donate to COVID-19 Relief Funds The U of M has a number of ways you can contribute to COVID-19 relief for our students and front-line medical personnel. Give #UMNproud Powered by Curator.io COVID-19 Resources Safe Campus Clinical Trials Testing Facts UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities For Journalists Find an Expert For Journalists Guidelines for Journalists Meet the PR Team Contact [email protected] 612-624-5551 Do you know what the University of Minnesota University of Minnesota does for you? Driven to Discover Campaign Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback