Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities News & Events Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar News Section Menu Topics Story Archive For Journalists Events Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Topics Agriculture & Environment Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business & Management Campus Affairs COVID-19 Education Health Law & Policy Science & Technology Social Sciences Sports & Recreation Story Archive For Journalists Events COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Feature Paths to Resilience The importance of mental health is front and center in our lives. Stigmas are vanishing, programs are expanding, and we’re becoming more creative in seeking our own wellness. Feature Mental health care for all Doctoral student Vanessa Anyanso is uniting her interests of helping people and doing research—with a focus on underrepresented communities. Feature Turning lessons into leadership Claire Busse developed a trauma-informed leadership training for peer leaders in the University of Minnesota’s marching band. On this page: Skip to section: Agriculture and Environment Architecture and Design Arts and Humanities Business and Management Campus Affairs COVID-19 Stories, Insights, Expertise Education Health Law and Policy Science and Technology Social Sciences Sports and Recreation Story Archive In the News Resources for Journalists Agriculture and Environment News Release University of Minnesota hires first systemwide chief sustainability officer Shane Stennes started the position on May 9. Expert Alert Not enough food crops harvested globally to meet UN food security goal by 2030 Deepak Ray with the Institute on the Environment can speak on crop harvest trends and the implications they have on global food insecurity. Talking with U of M Talking sustainable Minnesota landscapes with the U of M Extension horticulture educator Julie Weisenhorn says this is a good time to slow down and take stock of how choices made in our yards and gardens can have an impact on the environment in Minnesota and beyond. More Agriculture and Environment Stories Architecture and Design Feature Demystifying congenital heart disease through product design A University student helped to create a better educational tool for children with congenital heart disease. Feature Dare to Repair: A hands-on exploration of sustainability and community A popular new course has students from around the University taking a fresh look at product life cycles. Feature Work on things that matter to you An interview with recent alumna and apparel designer Claire Lumen. More Architecture and Design Stories Arts and Humanities News Release U of M System Ranks Among the Top Schools for Addressing Hunger and Health in the US in its Inaugural Impact Ranking for Sustainability The THE Impact Rankings Compare Universities Across the Globe for Their Efforts with UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. News Release U of M Professor Jean O'Brien elected to the Academy of Arts and Sciences Professor Jean M. O'Brien was recently elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. News Release Professor Brenda Child Awarded 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship Child, a professor of American Studies in the College of Liberal Arts, has received a 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship. More Arts and Humanities Stories Business and Management News Release UMN Celebrates 200th Startup Company and Top Ranking for Technology Transfer The University of Minnesota today announced that it has launched 200 startup companies since 2006, a significant milestone in its work to scale and commercialize ideas and inventions from labs and research facilities on its five campuses. The announcement coincided with a report released today by the group Heartland Forward that ranked the University of Minnesota Twin Cities first for technology transfer within the heartland, a 20-state region, and fifth among all U.S. public universities. Expert Alert Managing debt and investments during inflation Jacelly Cespedes with the Carlson School of Management is available to comment on managing expenses, debt and investments during inflation. Research Brief Highway death toll messages cause more crashes Displaying the highway death toll on message boards is a common awareness campaign, but new research from the University of Toronto and University of Minnesota shows this tactic actually leads to more crashes. More Business and Management Stories Campus Affairs News Release University of Minnesota joins internationally-recognized Principles for Responsible Investment The United Nations-sponsored PRI is the world’s leading organization for responsible investment. News Release University of Minnesota presents inaugural Juneteenth Celebration and Commemorative March: Was. Is. Will Be On Saturday, June 18, the University of Minnesota Twin Cities will host its inaugural U of M Juneteenth Celebration from noon to 6 p.m. in North Minneapolis. News Release U of M celebrates year of extraordinary achievements among students, faculty and staff President Joan Gabel and Executive Vice President and Provost Rachel Croson introduced a collection of extraordinary students, faculty and staff to the Board of Regents. More Campus Affairs Stories COVID-19 Stories, Insights, Expertise Research Brief Study discovers molecular properties of lung surfactants that could lead to better treatments for respiratory illnesses A University of Minnesota-led research team analyzed the fundamental properties and structures of the naturally occurring substances that help human lungs expand and contract, providing insight into how the substances help us breathe. Research Brief How omicron infects cells while evading immunity Researchers at the U of M identified the structural mechanism that may explain why omicron is so effective in infecting people, both vaccinated and unvaccinated, and suggested ways to curb its spread. Talking with U of M Talking pediatric obesity during the pandemic with the U of M Dr. Aaron Kelly discusses the effect of the pandemic on childhood obesity rates. More COVID-19 Stories Education Feature Turning lessons into leadership Claire Busse developed a trauma-informed leadership training for peer leaders in the University of Minnesota’s marching band. Feature Nothing is stopping her now From a one-room schoolhouse to a large public research university, Betty Sandison’s educational journey is one for the ages. News Release University of Minnesota commencement ceremonies begin systemwide this week In the coming weeks, the University of Minnesota System will host numerous commencement ceremonies to recognize thousands of students across its five campuses for their academic achievements and congratulate them as they take the next step forward in toward productive lives and careers. More Education Stories Health Talking with U of M Talking children’s summer activities with U of M Associate professor Daheia Barr-Anderson discusses the importance of keeping children physically active in the summer. News Release Interim Title Dropped as Aaron Schilz, MPA, Named Masonic Cancer Center’s Executive Director Aaron Schilz has been appointed as the Executive Director for the Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota. News Release School of Dentistry research hub joins interprofessional center for pharmaceutical research The U of M’s Minnesota Dental Research Center for Biomaterials and Biomechanics (MDRCBB) has joined a national, collaborative research center focused on improving the development process for pharmaceutical products. More Health Stories Law and Policy Expert Alert New FTC guidelines for social media influencers Christopher Terry with the Hubbard School of Journalism and Mass Communication is available to comment on the potential impact of a new ruling by the Federal Trade Commission on advertising disclosures by social media influencers. Research Brief How AV policies impact social equity A new study from the Humphrey School of Public Affairs shows how AVs could impact social equity. Feature Once a refugee herself, student organizes relief mission to Somalia Law student Samia Osman spent her winter break fact-finding and delivering humanitarian aid to her drought-stricken native land. More Law and Policy Stories Science and Technology News Release The National Academy of Sciences elects three U of M faculty to membership The National Academy of Sciences (NAS) recently announced the election of University of Minnesota Professors Megan Gunnar, Larry Que and Kristin Hogquist in recognition of their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. News Release UMN technology allows amputees to control a robotic arm with their mind A team of biomedical engineering researchers and industry collaborators have developed a way to tap into a patient’s brain signals through a neural chip implanted in the arm, effectively reading the patient’s mind and opening the door for less invasive alternatives to brain surgeries. News Release Energy researchers invent chameleon metal that acts like many others A team of energy researchers led by the University of Minnesota Twin Cities have invented a groundbreaking device that electronically converts one metal into behaving like another to use as a catalyst for speeding chemical reactions. More Science and Technology Stories Social Sciences Feature Mental health care for all Doctoral student Vanessa Anyanso is uniting her interests of helping people and doing research—with a focus on underrepresented communities. Expert Alert Prolonged grief disorder recognizes intense feelings of loss A new diagnosis called prolonged grief disorder was recently added to the latest edition of the DSM-5, the diagnostic manual used by mental health professionals. Feature Finding his way A broad education in the liberal arts prepared Jonathan Du for a varied career path. See All Stories Sports and Recreation Expert Alert Gender pay gap in sports Nicole LaVoi, director of the Tucker Center for Research on Girls & Women in Sport in the College of Education and Human Development, provides expert comment on the pay gap between men and women professional athletes. Feature Steveson, Hasz receive Big Ten Medal of Honor Bethany Hasz and Gable Steveson are the U of M's recipients of this year’s Big Ten Medal of Honor. Feature Champs again … and again and again Three familiar names in Gopher sports won national championships as their seasons concluded: Gable Steveson in wrestling, Sarah Bacon in women’s diving, and Max McHugh in men’s swimming. More Sports and Recreation Stories Story Archive See All Stories UMN in the News May 25, 2022 Coping with prolonged grief in the wake of George Floyd and the pandemic MPR May 20, 2022 University of Minnesota Crookston students mark 40-year tree planting tradition in Chippewa National Forest Duluth News Tribune May 19, 2022 Updates on new COVID variants and the vaccine with Dr. Michael Osterholm MPR Resources for Journalists The University Public Relations team for the Twin Cities campus is often the first call for journalists who seek help connecting to faculty experts or who wish to receive information about the University of Minnesota. From news releases to expert alerts to interviews on timely topics, University Public Relations provides the resources journalists need for their reporting in all areas of public interest. Resources for Journalists UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities For Journalists Find an Expert For Journalists Guidelines for Journalists Meet the PR Team Contact [email protected] 612-624-5551 Do you know what the University of Minnesota University of Minnesota does for you? Driven to Discover Campaign Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback