Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner We are driven Play video Close video Close video X Bold minds don't wait. Discover the University of Minnesota Twin Cities. Play Video Visit Apply Request Information Safety Is Our Top Priority We're welcoming students back to campus with a focus on health and safety—in classrooms, residence halls, and other campus spaces. Together we will reduce the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 Response Endless Opportunities for Discovery 1,000s Internship and research opportunities 150 Undergraduate Majors 550+ Graduate and professional degrees Endless Opportunities for Discovery With a major for every interest and faculty ready to inspire your thinking, the University of Minnesota Twin Cities is your opportunity to move beyond what you know. And to discover what you don’t. Academics and Admissions Student Life Search input text area Search Undergraduate Graduate Hybrid or Online “Joining the Black Student Union has had a huge impact on my experience here at the University. It was one of my first experiences with campus life, and I'm honored to uphold our mission to create unity and excellence.” Ru Bashir, ’22 Human Resources Development Meet Our #UMNproud Community At #UMN, we celebrate success—from the everyday to the extraordinary. Here, you’ll discover your people, begin new adventures, explore fascinating ideas, and find your inspiration. Follow us on Instagram to see what it means to be #UMNproud. Powered by Curator.io “The U of M is unique because it has endless resources to help students be successful. You can find something here no matter what your interests, passions, and goals.” Alex Rhyner, ’21 Marketing News Feature Paths to Resilience The importance of mental health is front and center in our lives. Stigmas are vanishing, programs are expanding, and we’re becoming more creative in seeking our own wellness. Feature Turning lessons into leadership Claire Busse developed a trauma-informed leadership training for peer leaders in the University of Minnesota’s marching band. Feature Mental health care for all Doctoral student Vanessa Anyanso is uniting her interests of helping people and doing research—with a focus on underrepresented communities. Read More News UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback