Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Research Discovery happens here. The University of Minnesota Twin Cities is a top 10 U.S. public research university with world-class academics, award-winning faculty, and state-of-the-art facilities. Our researchers and students uncover new knowledge and find solutions to some of the most complex challenges facing society today. 10th Among public research institutions 2.1+ Million Square Feet of Research Space 25 Nobel Prize Recipients On this page: Skip to section: Student Research Research in the Colleges Industry and Collaborations Faculty Resources Research News 10th Among public research institutions 2.1+ Million Square Feet of Research Space 25 Nobel Prize Recipients Student Research From unlocking the secrets of DNA repair to zero gravity flight, students experience the thrill of discovery, learning under the direction of faculty who are leaders in their fields. Undergraduate Research In fields from engineering to medicine, business, law, and liberal arts, our students become tomorrow’s trailblazers through limitless research opportunities. Internship and Research Opportunities Graduate Research Graduate students have the opportunity to perform research through any of more than 200 master’s and doctoral degree programs. Graduate School Education “Helping the world in reducing its reliance on fossil fuels—and utilizing corn, something we have in the Midwest—is something that really excites me.” Yutong Pang Chemical Engineering & Materials Science Read Yutong’s story Research in the Colleges Our centers and institutes connect researchers with similar interests to increase funding and strengthen the quality of research. All Centers and Institutes [email protected] With 16 colleges and more than 300 centers and institutes, the opportunities for discovery are endless. Biological Sciences Law Pharmacy Dentistry Liberal Arts Public Affairs Design Management Public Health Education and Human Development Medicine Science and Engineering Extension Nursing Veterinary Medicine Food, Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences Industry and Collaborations Our research advances society through new ideas, technologies, treatments, and cures, and we continue to create and transfer technology to companies for the development of new products and services that benefit the public good and foster economic growth. $8.6 billion economic impact in Minnesota 16 Fortune 500 companies--fourth in the nation, per capita. $1.01 billion in research expenditures Discover Unique Opportunities We drive innovation that lifts Minnesota and solves global challenges. We do this by working together—with government, business, and industry partners—in new and creative ways. Technology Commercialization Venture Center Minnesota Innovation Partnerships MnDRIVE Corporate Engagement Faculty Resources The University of Minnesota Twin Cities is one of the most comprehensive research universities in the nation. We support the groundbreaking interdisciplinary research efforts of our more than 5,000 faculty, who are driven to make the world a better place through research and discovery. Academic Affairs and Provost Office of the Vice President for Research Office for Public Engagement Research News News Release The National Academy of Sciences elects three U of M faculty to membership The National Academy of Sciences (NAS) recently announced the election of University of Minnesota Professors Megan Gunnar, Larry Que and Kristin Hogquist in recognition of their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. News Release UMN technology allows amputees to control a robotic arm with their mind A team of biomedical engineering researchers and industry collaborators have developed a way to tap into a patient’s brain signals through a neural chip implanted in the arm, effectively reading the patient’s mind and opening the door for less invasive alternatives to brain surgeries. News Release Energy researchers invent chameleon metal that acts like many others A team of energy researchers led by the University of Minnesota Twin Cities have invented a groundbreaking device that electronically converts one metal into behaving like another to use as a catalyst for speeding chemical reactions. Read More News UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback