Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Student Life Something big awaits you. Here, you'll encounter people and ideas from around the world that will inspire your thinking and take you down unexpected paths. Discover life on the University of Minnesota Twin Cities campus. 90% First year students live on campus 3,682 U of M students studying abroad 900+ Student organizations On this page: Skip to section: Meet Our #UMNdriven Students Housing and Dining Get Involved Student Health Club Sports & Recreation Arts and Culture Safety Getting Around Campus News Take the Next Step 90% First year students live on campus 3,682 U of M students studying abroad 900+ Student organizations Meet Our #UMNdriven Students At the U of M you can dream, and you can do. You can dive in and create. You can build and become, learn, and discover. And you can share your successes and those of everyone you meet here who inspires you. Share what makes you #UMNproud through any of our many social media channels. Powered by Curator.io Housing and Dining When you live on campus, you'll get a jump-start on meeting new people and developing lifelong friendships while being close to classes, libraries, rec centers, restaurants, and whatever resources you need, from mental health support to work-study jobs. Nearby, the campus is surrounded by distinct and welcoming neighborhoods, so whether you commute or live close, there are endless places to discover. University Housing Off-Campus Living Dining Get Involved Students come together to socialize and learn from each other in countless ways. Across campus and in every major, you'll discover purpose, community, and opportunity. Student Groups Student groups are a great way to get involved. There are more than 900, from the Alpine Ski Team to the Capoeira Club. Join a group or start your own! Student Groups Community Engagement Develop your strengths and leadership skills through service learning and other community engagement opportunities in the vibrant Twin Cities. Community Engagement Greek Life Membership in a fraternity or sorority is an experience unlike any other. Join the more than 3,000 students who participate in Greek life on campus. Greek Life “I love how the U of M has so many opportunities to join student groups and how big the campus is! And there are so many majors and minors to choose from.” Jasmine Jackson, ’21 Marketing Student Health Your health matters. That’s why our students are automatically enrolled in student health benefits. With top-notch medical care and insurance, we’ve got everything you need to stay healthy, right here on campus. Boynton Health Disability Resource Center Student Counseling Services Student Health Benefits Club Sports and Recreation Centered in a vibrant metropolitan community, the Twin Cities campus is also a world in itself—with miles of bike paths, numerous lakes, and the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area right in the heart of campus. You'll also have access to state-of-the-art recreation and wellness facilities, with programs in everything from intramural sports to outdoor recreation and fitness programs. Recreation and Wellness “I chose the U because I wanted to go to a college that had all the perks of being in a big city but still have the traditional campus feel! There are so many amazing things to take advantage of in Minneapolis.” Emilie Gruell, ’22 Family Social Science Arts and Culture Art plays a meaningful cultural and educational role throughout the U of M campus, inspiring students to think differently about their world. With more than three dozen public artworks and the magnificence of Northrop, the Weisman Art Museum, the Bell Museum, and the West Bank Arts Quarter, inspiration is just a step away. Meanwhile, the Twin Cities is also home to a dynamic arts community. The Walker Art Center and the Minneapolis Sculpture Garden, the Guthrie Theater, and the Minneapolis Institute of Arts are just a few examples. Northrop Weisman Art Museum Bell Museum of Natural History Guthrie Theater Walker Art Museum Minneapolis Institute of Arts “I currently work at the Asian Pacific American Resource Center. This has been a great group for me to explore my identity and be a part of a community.” Khoa Nguyen, ’23 Human Physiology Safety The safety of our students, faculty, staff, and visitors is incredibly important. Students receive real-time safety alerts via text message, and alarm buttons and emergency phones are located throughout campus. Parking facilities, skyways, and tunnels are monitored 24 hours a day with the aid of security cameras, and campus escorts are available to bike and walk with you to and from campus locations and nearby neighborhoods—just call 612-624-WALK. Safety on Campus Getting Around Campus The Twin Cities campus is centered in one of the most bike-friendly cities in the nation. You can pedal your own wheels or hop on a Nice Ride or electric scooter. Not a cyclist? Free Campus Connector shuttles will carry you everywhere on campus, while buses and light rail guide you swiftly around the Twin Cities. And don’t worry about staying warm in winter—we’ve literally got you covered with an underground tunnel system. Parking and Transportation Paratransit Service “The U of M gathers people from different backgrounds into one space, which allows us as students to grow and be open-minded. And the Hmong Minnesota Student Association gave me a sense of belonging and allowed me to tap into my culture.” Yayoua Yang, ’21 Graphic Design and Strategic Communications News News Release University of Minnesota joins internationally-recognized Principles for Responsible Investment The United Nations-sponsored PRI is the world’s leading organization for responsible investment. News Release Interim Title Dropped as Aaron Schilz, MPA, Named Masonic Cancer Center’s Executive Director Aaron Schilz has been appointed as the Executive Director for the Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota. News Release School of Dentistry research hub joins interprofessional center for pharmaceutical research The U of M’s Minnesota Dental Research Center for Biomaterials and Biomechanics (MDRCBB) has joined a national, collaborative research center focused on improving the development process for pharmaceutical products. Read More News Undergraduate Admissions Next Steps Request Information Visit Apply UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback