Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner About Us At the University of Minnesota Twin Cities, we seek new knowledge that can change how we all work and live. We prepare students to meet the great challenges facing our state, our nation, and our world. And we apply our expertise as students, faculty, and staff to engage with communities across Minnesota. 50,000+ Passionate students 485,000 living alumni 20,000 dedicated faculty & staff On this page: Skip to section: Location Our Mission Who We Are A History of Education and Discovery An Indispensable Engine for Minnesota Leadership Accreditation 50,000+ Passionate students 485,000 living alumni 20,000 dedicated faculty & staff Location ► Take a virtual tour The flagship of the University of Minnesota System, the Twin Cities campus is Minnesota’s only land-grant university and one of the most prestigious public research universities in the nation. Founded in 1851 near Saint Anthony Falls on the banks of the Mississippi River, we are one of five universities in the nation with an engineering school, medical school, law school, veterinary medicine school, and agricultural school all on one campus. Contact Us Visit Campus U of M System Our Mission The University of Minnesota System is driven by a singular vision of excellence. We are proud of our land-grant mission of world-class education, groundbreaking research, and community-engaged outreach, and we are unified in our drive to serve Minnesota. Research We seek new knowledge that can change how we all work and live. Students in all majors have the opportunity to participate in research alongside professors who are leaders in their fields. Education We prepare students to meet the most complex challenges facing society today. Students engage with professors and fellow students from the very beginning, developing their strengths with beyond-the-classroom experiences. Outreach We apply our expertise to meet the needs of Minnesota, our nation, and the world. We partner with communities across Minnesota to engage our students, faculty, and staff in addressing society's most pressing issues. Full Mission Statement (PDF) Who We Are Innovative and Inspiring Faculty Our 4,000 faculty members form the cornerstone of the Twin Cities campus. Faculty have won Guggenheim Fellowships, MacArthur Fellowships (“genius grants"), Nobel Prizes, and other honors and include members of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and more. Dedicated and Driven Staff Our staff are known for being exceptionally dedicated—committed to the University of Minnesota's mission and to each other. While nationwide the average time spent with an employer is four years, employees stay at the U of M for an average of eight years. They stay because they know their work matters. Incredible Students We provide students with the opportunities of a world-class research university while remaining affordable. Our commitment to student success begins with our outreach to prospective students and extends through recruitment, enrollment, orientation, academic advising, career services, graduation, and beyond. Outstanding Alumni The U of M Twin Cities counts more than 485,000 living alumni worldwide. Sixty-three percent of them live in Minnesota, and more than a third hold doctoral or master’s degrees. Our alumni include a Nobel Peace Prize recipient, former U.S. vice presidents, groundbreaking journalists, inventors, civil rights activists, and athletic greats. And our alumni are involved and connected. A History of Education and Discovery Bringing people together in new ways, fostering discoveries, and making our world a better place is what we do at the University of Minnesota. And we’ve been doing it for more than 150 years. Our world-class faculty are known for life-changing inventions such as the pacemaker, the retractable seat belt, cancer therapies, biodegradable plastics, and technologies that advance agricultural production. University of Minnesota History An Indispensable Engine for Minnesota The University of Minnesota contributes more than $8.6 billion a year in economic activity to the state. But the real “return on investment” for Minnesota lies in the excellence of our graduates, who use their skills and expertise to become our state's new leaders. From U of M Extension offices and Research and Outreach Centers to community health clinics and testing sites for aquatic invasive species, our students, staff, and alumni are living in and contributing to communities in every corner of the state. Our Economic Impact U of M in Your Community Today in Minnesota, more than 225,000 U of M graduates will go to work as health professionals, teachers, business analysts, designers, artists, architects, and engineers. We are Minnesota’s skilled workforce. Leadership "Together we will build spaces of discovery, standing as a beacon of inclusion, preparing students for lives well lived, and driving Minnesota forward. And as we serve our state, we will help change the world." President Joan T.A. Gabel Board of Regents Office of the President Office of the Provost University Senate Governance Executive Leadership Accreditation The University of Minnesota is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Learn more about the University of Minnesota's accreditation. UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback