Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities News and Events Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar News Section Menu Topics Story Archive For Journalists Events Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Topics Agriculture & Environment Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business & Management Campus Affairs COVID-19 Education Health Law & Policy Science & Technology Social Sciences Sports & Recreation Story Archive For Journalists Events COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Breadcrumb Home News & Events Turning lessons into leadership Feature Turning lessons into leadership May 16, 2022 Claire Busse, a graduate this spring in family social science and sociology and a U of M honors student, made the leap from learner to practitioner to researcher earlier this academic year for her honors thesis. Busse developed a trauma-informed leadership training—incorporating her knowledge about trauma and how it affects people’s minds and bodies—for peer leaders in the University of Minnesota Marching Band. She began thinking about a training for the band during her first year as a leader in the clarinet section in the fall of 2020. Busse says she learned about trauma-informed approaches in Professor Tai Mendenhall’s class, “Traumatic Stress and Resilience in Vulnerable Families across the Lifespan.” The course focuses on stressful events and processes that place families at risk—from natural and human-created disasters to social disparities and medical crises. Central to taking a trauma-informed approach is the creation of physical and emotional safety, and collaboration to educate individuals and give them an active role in healing. “The course helped me understand others' situations during a pandemic school year and led me to find ways to bolster the resilience of my section members,” she says. “After I experienced deep connections and success using a trauma-informed leadership approach, I thought this might be a path to help others.” Busse says she observed peers in band struggling with how the pandemic had affected their mental health, finances, and families, and heard other leaders attest to struggles of handling hard situations with their section members. She augmented her observations with research into undergraduate peer leaders in other University student groups and found that they are uniquely positioned to use a trauma-informed leadership approach to assist peers affected by the pandemic and other stress and trauma. Busse also consulted recent alumni of the band’s leadership team. They helped her create hypothetical situations that were realistic and tailor the information to what leaders would want to know. She presented the training last August, as the band prepared for its 130th season. Survey results indicated that the training was highly successful. Leaders demonstrated a significant increase in their knowledge, skills, and attitudes about trauma-informed leadership, and they expressed a deep appreciation for the knowledge in the workshop and a desire for more training. Busse, who plans to pursue a position at a mental health agency or nonprofit in the Twin Cities, says this project gave her a satisfaction that comes with tuning into the needs of her community and creating something that makes a difference for them. “I am so inspired by every person’s vast resilience in the face of the hard things in life. I know from my studies that resources play such a big role in resilience, and uncovering how student groups can be a resource in building resilience has been so cool. Read the entire story from the College of Education and Human Development. Categories: Education Education practice and theory Family and social relationships Share this story Link to share current story on Twitter Link to share current story on Facebook Link to share current story via email More stories in Education Feature Nothing is stopping her now From a one-room schoolhouse to a large public research university, Betty Sandison’s educational journey is one for the ages. News Release University of Minnesota commencement ceremonies begin systemwide this week In the coming weeks, the University of Minnesota System will host numerous commencement ceremonies to recognize thousands of students across its five campuses for their academic achievements and congratulate them as they take the next step forward in toward productive lives and careers. Editor's picks Feature Mental health care for all Doctoral student Vanessa Anyanso is uniting her interests of helping people and doing research—with a focus on underrepresented communities. Feature Steveson, Hasz receive Big Ten Medal of Honor Bethany Hasz and Gable Steveson are the U of M's recipients of this year’s Big Ten Medal of Honor. Feature Nothing is stopping her now From a one-room schoolhouse to a large public research university, Betty Sandison’s educational journey is one for the ages. Feature A bacterial bullseye A graduate student finds a bacterium that could detoxify long-lived chemical pollutants known as PFAS. See all stories UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities For Journalists Find an Expert For Journalists Guidelines for Journalists Meet the PR Team Contact [email protected] 612-624-5551 Do you know what the University of Minnesota University of Minnesota does for you? Driven to Discover Campaign Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback