Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Gopher Athletics Welcome to the Big Ten, sports fans. Big Ten athletics have a way of energizing all students, and while Gopher student-athletes compete at the highest level in their sports, they also regularly rank tops in academics among public institutions. Our athletes are driven, and our fans are driven to support them. 600+ Number of student-athletes 22 Number of sports 3.44+ Average student-athlete GPA (first among public institutions) On this page: Skip to section: Big Time in the Big 10 History News 600+ Number of student-athletes 22 Number of sports 3.44+ Average student-athlete GPA (first among public institutions) Big Time in the Big Ten Gopher Sports Student Tickets Schedule History From the history of our school colors (maroon and gold), to the creation of cheerleading in 1898 and the birth of the world's most lovable mascot, Goldy Gopher, the University of Minnesota Twin Cities sporting scene enjoys a rich heritage. Traditions Goldy Gopher Mascot News Expert Alert Gender pay gap in sports Nicole LaVoi, director of the Tucker Center for Research on Girls & Women in Sport in the College of Education and Human Development, provides expert comment on the pay gap between men and women professional athletes. Feature Steveson, Hasz receive Big Ten Medal of Honor Bethany Hasz and Gable Steveson are the U of M's recipients of this year’s Big Ten Medal of Honor. Feature Champs again … and again and again Three familiar names in Gopher sports won national championships as their seasons concluded: Gable Steveson in wrestling, Sarah Bacon in women’s diving, and Max McHugh in men’s swimming. Read More News UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback